-I move: 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
As the honourable gentleman would know, his question also concerns two other Ministers - my colleagues the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Education and Science. So far as the legal situation is concerned, the export of kangaroo skins or hides is prohibited. They are declared to be a prohibited export and may be exported only on the authority of the Minister for Customs and Excise and then only on the production of a certificate from the State fauna authority to the effect that the hides were legally taken. As for products of kangaroo hides, there is no limitation on export for the obvious reason that this would be completely impossible to police. 

 Mr Speaker. I have no personal knowledge of a recent order of 1 million kangaroo skins. So far as the control of articles made from kangaroo skins is concerned, the general philosophical view of the Government is that we would need fairly strong reasons to put a ban on the export of any commodity so well policed by the State governments. We know that each State fauna authority is exercising close control over the preservation of Australia's flora and fauna. 
Until such time as the Commonwealth receives representations from the States to ban the export of kangaroos the Commonwealth would be loth to move unilaterally in this regard. The honourable gentleman also asked what action is being taken. I can tell him that this week, I think, or early next week, there is to be a conference at official level between Commonwealth and State authorities concerning the export of live kangaroos and other fauna. At this conference no doubt the subject matter of the honourable member's question will again be discussed and recommendations, if thought fit, made to the Commonwealth 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings of Commonwealth and State Ministers on the problems of drug abuse were held on 14th February 1969, at Canberra, and on 5th May 1969, at Melbourne. A further meeting will be held in Canberra on 24th April 1970. 
The National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence has met in Canberra on 7th March, 11th April and 9th October 1969. It will meet again in Canberra on 3rd April 1970. 
As a result of these meetings, Ministers have agreed to action in the law enforcement, health and education areas, to provide concerted and coordinated activity by the Commonwealth and the States to combat drug abuse problems. 
Details of this action were set in statements made in the Senate by my predecessor on 28th May 1969 and 24th September 1969 (Senate Hansard pages 1631 and 1271 respectively). 
Papua and New Guinea - Broadcasts by Members of House of Assembly (Question No. 161) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's attention is invited to a reply by the Prime Minister on a similar question asked by the honourable member for North Sydney in this House on 4th March 1970. 
I heard the honourable gentleman's excellent speech the other night. I listened with great interest and believe that he made a formidable contribution to the solution of this national problem by saying what he did in the national Parliament. Generally speaking, this Government, and, I believe, most if not all State governments, would not be inclined to the view of imposing minimum penalties without the option of parole. The honourable member asks me whether as Minister for Customs and Excise I am satisfied with the penalties generally imposed by the courts. We are generally satisfied, although I am bound to say that there are certain decisions of the courts, particularly as far as drug pushers are concerned, which fill me and my Department with concern. 
The honourable member asks whether there should be any changes in the scale of penalties. In Australia at the present time, for charges on indictment the penalty is 10 years imprisonment or a fine of $4,000 while, with charges on summary jurisdiction, the penalty is a fine of $1,000 or 2 years gaol or both. There is no prescribed differentiation in the penalties between users and the pushers. The view is put that there should be. However, the courts to this point seem to be making their own judgment as to distinguishing and differentiating between the user and the pusher. This general question of penalties will be discussed by the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence which will be meeting in the next week or two and, indeed, by a meeting of Ministers, State and Federal, later in April. 
There is one novel suggestion which I put forward concerning penalties for drug users particularly for younger people who are imbibing what are commonly called 'soft drugs'. I am rather attracted to the idea that some magistrates sometimes impose as a penalty in courts for young people convicted of committing traffic offences involving dangerous driving and the like. The magistrates force these young people to attend the casualty wards of hospitals from time to time. I am rather attracted to the idea that magistrates might give thought, as a punishment if honourable members like, to sending the young drug offenders, particularly those who are smoking marihuana or hashish, to assist in drug rehabilitation clinics for a period such as a series of weekends. I am sure that seeing these things there would have a summary effect on them. 
I present the report by the Tariff Board on the following subject: 
Man-made Fibres and Yarn, Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord Fabric. 
I shall formally introduce the Tariff Proposals tomorrow and will give details of the changes at that time. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I move: 
I present the report by the Tariff Board on the following subject: 
Gelatine and animal  glues. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
It does not unduly concern me that the honourable member or any members of Parliament or members of the Press Gallery who will be seeing this film next Monday night may be depraved or corrupted. Nor does it unduly concern me that the honourable member or any other of his colleagues may be erotically stimulated by such a film although that particular state as far as some honourable members opposite are concerned might fill me with some little concern. However,  Sir, the  whole fact of the honourable gentleman basing his question on whether what we approve or not will deprave or corrupt indicates, I say with respect to him, that he does not understand Government policy concerning censorship. That is not the question. 
We, as a responsible Government, try to interpret what prevailing community standards are. If the honourable gentleman and his Party say that there should be no censorship and if he believes that present community standards will allow in some of the garbage and rubbish that I have to stop coming in, let him get up and say so. We on this side of the House say quite clearly, much as censorship might offend us as a philosophical principle, that present community standards demand that we do keep some of this material out of the country. I am sure that the overwhelming proportion of the Australian public would support us on that issue. 
Most of the matters which the honourable gentleman raises are strictly outside the control of my Department. However, because of the very nature of it, my Department takes a keen interest in the matters to which he refers. All Victorian members on both sides of the House and myself in particular are aware of the rather chaotic system of marketing petroleum products which has existed in Victoria over the past several months. Honourable members on either side of the House would not worry if petrol in any instance was being sold to the motorist cheaper than it normally is. However I would deplore any system of marketing purposely implemented by oil companies which would require the little man, the garage operator, to bear the brunt of this problem. This is a matter that concerns me, and any honourable member from Victoria who has spoken to a service station operator would also be concerned. The truth of the matter is that some oil companies seem to be offering large discounts to some service stations distribut ing these petroleum products in gypsy or phantom tankers. This was triggered off by one oil company which was buying its petrol from Japan in cheap job lots. 
In the last part of his question the honourable member asks me whether I can reconcile the ability of the oil companies to discount their petrol at such heavy rates with the reported increase of 6c per gallon. As he may know there is a rather curious system in Australia of fixing the price of petrol charged by the oil companies. The South Australian Prices Commissioner fixes the price and the oil companies by agreement then apply that price throughout Australia. I am given to understand that that gentleman soon will be making a pronouncement on the application for a price increase by all the oil companies excepting, I think, Esso Standard Oil (Aust.) Ltd. I could not reconcile the granting of the great discounts with a large price increase. I would be very surprised if the increase that might be finally granted were anything but minimal. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of administrative office blocks 6, 7 and 8 and an information and display building, Darwin. 
The proposal includes construction of a twin unit office building, blocks 6 and 7. of 3 storeys, a 3-storey building of part office space and housing a cafeteria, recreation area, PABX and a data processing centre. The information and display centre will be in a small single storey structure. The estimated cost is $3. 3m. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of additional storehouse building at stores depot, Tottenham, Victoria. 
The proposal involves construction of a single storey storehouse building measuring 480 feet by 244 feet and having a clear inside height of 20 feet. It also includes an extension of the standard gauge railway spur line to the storehouse. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee recommended that the proposal should include the work required to facilitate the provision at a later date of a broad gauge rail connection to the new storehouse and that the height of the vehicle access doorways should be increased. These amendments wa be incorporated in the final plans. The estimated cost is $975,000. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the Committee's recommendations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
High Schools at Casuarina (Darwin)  and  Alice Springs 

 Mr CHIPP (Hotham- Minister for 
Customs and Excise) [4.47] - I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of high schools at Casuarina (Darwin) and Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
The proposals involve construction of 2 high schools comprising classrooms, assembly areas, craft blocks et cetera. Each school will provide teaching facilities for 1,100 pupils. The estimated cost of each school is $2.4m. In reporting favourablly on the proposals the Committee recommended that single contracts be let for both schools and that construction be staged to allow occupation of Alice Springs High School stage 1 at the commencement of the 1972 school year, stage 2 at the commencement of 1973 year and occupation of Casuarina High School in 1973 and 1974 respectively. The Department of Works has advanced planning of the second stages and tenders will be called for single projects as recommended. The Committee asked that planning of access to the Casuarina school be reconsidered. Amendments have been incorporated in the plans which provide for greater segregation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic to improve pedestrian safety and minimise congestion. Grassing of the Alice Springs school oval will be included in the proposal as recommended. Upon the concurrence of this House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I not only read the honourable member's speech but I also had the privilege of listening to it. On studying it, I must say that certain aspects of it did impress me. We have taken the view that the kangaroo and its preservation are primarily matters for State governments. That is sound. Several Federal Government departments have some sort of interest in the preservation of kangaroos. After the honourable gentleman had spoken I called on Thursday for a report from my Department to see whether we had any figures about the seriousness of the situation. 1 was alarmed - the language used in one of the petitions today - to discover that we had exported 2,500,000 kangaroo and wallaby skins in the last  2i  years. That does not necessarily indicate the number killed, but skins are exported at ihe rate of 1 million a year. One wonders whether any species can survive that kind of killing rate. Therefore 1 have instructed my Department to prepare a report for me, the preliminary version of which arrived on my desk this morning. The officers were working over the weekend on it. When I have digested this report I will be conferring with those other Federal Ministers concerned and. if necessary, with the State governments with a view to making a submission to Cabinet on the matter. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient lo carry oat the following proposed work which the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works has recommended to this Parliament: Construction of additional laundry and sterilising facilities at Canberra Hospital, A.C.T. 
The proposal involves expansion of the existing laundry and sterilising facilities and increasing boiler capacity to serve the need of 950 beds. The Committee has reported on a proposal which involves major extensions at the Canberra Hospital to enable the setting up of an interim central' laundry and sterilising service which would serve the needs of the A.C.T. hospitals until a new central facility could be established elsewhere. The estimated cost of this proposal when referred to the Committee was $l.6m. In its report the Committee recommended that: 
lt is not expedient to proceed with the proposal submitted. 
The Government should reconsider the proposed arrangements for providing laundry and central sterilising services to Australian Capital Territory hosiptals with a view to: 
Proceeding immediately with the design and construction of permanent laundry and sterilising facilities on a site other than the Canberra Hospital; and 
Constructing such additional facilities at Canberra Hospital as are required to provide an interim service, pending completion of the permanent facility. 
The Government agrees that full benefit of integration of laundry and sterilising facilities be enjoyed as soon as possible and that expenditure at Canberra Hospital on interim facilitiesshould be at a minimum. The economic advantages and operational difficulties of making do with minimum facilities until a new central service is operational have been fully considered in relation to updated forecasts of availability of beds, and arrangements have been made for planning to commence on the new permanent central facility. Interim facilities to cater for 950 beds, as considered by the Committee, will be provided at the Canberra Hospital. The existing laundry and sterilising facilities will be augmented and the steam raising capacity increased to serve the additional load. No major building extensions to the present laundry are proposed. The present estimated cost of the work is $0.95m, which includes an allowance for increases in equipment and building costs since the proposal was examined by the Committee. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
( move: 
 I applaud and support this Bill, which is a Bill to devote a considerable sum of money to encourage the film industry in Australia. All of us would hope that the film industry, through this encouragement, will develop to such a stage that we will be proud of the films we are making and that they will be of such a quality that they will be marketed and sold abroad and earn valuable export income. I have consulted the Cinematographic Regulations relating to the export of films, and after consultation with my Department I have decided to cancel the film regulations which as some honourable members may know, still control the export of Australian made films. The most vital part of these regulations reads as follows: 
an  export permit will not be granted if the film or slide- 
That relates to the days of the old magic latern slides - 
is blasphemous, indecent or obscene; 
is likely to be injurious to morality, or to encourage or incite to crime; 
is likely to be offensive to the people of a friendly nation or to the people of a part of the Queen's dominions; 
depicts a matter the exhibition of which is undesirable in the public interest; or 
is likely to prove detrimental or prejudicial to the Commonwealth. 
Those regulations still apply to films made in Australia for export, which means that any film made under the assistance of this Bill would have to cross the threshold of the provisions of those regulations. In other words, every film made for export would have to be censored in terms of those criteria. I believe that would be an absurd situation, and to my mind it would be unthinkable to restrict the creativity of Australian film makers by imposing regulations which would merely be a strait-jacket for those trying to make films to compete on the world's markets. It is therefore my intention to cancel those regulations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes. I notified that these goods were subject to dumping investigation, I think early in December 1969. During the interim, as is required by the Act, my Department has conducted inquiries here and overseas to ascertain whether there is a prima facie dumping of non-cheddar cheeses in Australia. The report which I received only today from my Department confirms that there is prima facie evidence of dumping and 1 have signed this day a reference to the Tariff Board in conformity with the Act to conduct an investigation into it. 
I shall be pleased to refer the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague in the Senate and obtain a reply as soon as possible. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At no time has the Commonwealth Fire Board inspected the fire fighting and prevention procedures and equipment in non-Government shipyards where vessels are being built with Commonwealth subsidies. 
Recently the Commonwealth Fire Board carried out an inspection at the Commonwealth owned Cockatoo Island (N.S.W.) Dockyard, and reported to the Department of the Navy on the principles and minimum standards of fire protection which should be adopted to safeguard Commonwealth works, machinery and equipment. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Pearce, Western Australia. 
The principal components of the proposed work are as follows: An operations, communications, meteorological and base radio workshop; a precision approach radar complex: a precision measuring equipment laboratory; a tanker compound and fuel laboratory; a fire station; a barracks store and compound; a works depot; messes, sleeping quarters and laundries; and a recreation centre, squash court, playing fields and tennis courts. The estimated cost is $5.5m. Having reported favourably on the proposal, the Committee asked that consideration be given to the early diversion of the Great Northern Highway and that the water tower not now in use be retained. The Government will take action accordingly. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The amendment is not acceptable to the Government but I give an assurance to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the House that I will bring the whole of this constructive debate before my colleague, the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  in the Senate. In saying this I would like to compliment the honourable members for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and Hunter  (Mr James)  for supporting the Committee In this Parliament. I believe that when honourable members can do that, perhaps against the wishes of one of their front bench members, it says a lot for the parliamentary institution we now have. I am sure the  Chairman  and all members of the Committee will be grateful to those 2 honourable members for the way in which they have spoken. The amendment is not acceptable because of the delay it would cause, but I give the assurance that the whole of the debate will be brought before my colleague. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle)- by leave - I accept the assurance that has just been given by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who represents the Minister for Works that this matter will be brought to the attention of his colleague in another place. We on this side of the House are greatly concerned, as are a considerable number of honourable members on the Government side, with aircraft noise. As members of the Aircraft Noise Committee, I and my colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  probably because of the large volume of evidence that has been brought to our attention, can appreciate more than others do the need for adequate sound proofing of these 306 flats. This is what prompted me to move the amendment. However, we are prepared to accept the assurance of the Minister that the matter will be brought to the attention of his colleague in another place. I hope he will take the necessary action at this time to sound proof these buildings and so give the required protection to Service personnel. This protection is long overdue and has been recommended by a parliamentary committee, the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of stores complex for 2 Base Medical and Dental Equipment Depot at Randwick, New South Wales. 
The proposal involves construction of a main store with attached guard house, an administration and amenities building, an inflammable liquids and gases store, PABX and an incinerator. The estimated cost is $2m. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and on the concurrence of this House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
HMAS 'Tarangau', Los  Negros  Island 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development works at HMAS 'Tarangau' at Los Negros Island. 
The proposal includes construction of oil fuel storage facilities, diesel generating sets and electrical reticulation, air-conditioning units and 5 houses. The estimated cost is Sl.lm. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and upon the concurrence of this House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the present bounty legislation in order to enable bounty to be paid on approved books manufactured by private enterprise for the Commonwealth or a State. Honourable members will recall that in the original legislation introduced into this House in September of last year books produced by, for or on behalf of the Commonwealth or a State were excluded from bounty consideration. Experience in administration of the Book Bounty Act 1969 has shown that books so excluded represent a significant part of the output of local printers and that there exists a risk of a section of this market being lost to lower cost overseas printers. 
As the book bounty was introduced originally as an interim measure of assistance to local book manufacturers pending a Tariff Board inquiry and report on the printing industry it would be inconsistent with that policy if the Government did not act to remedy this situation. Production of approved books covered by this Bill will be eligible for bounty payment if manufactured in pursuance of orders dated on or after 21st April 1970. Work done directly by the Commonwealth or State printers will continue to be excluded from the bounty. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
I think that information is available and I will be pleased to supply it to the honourable member if possible. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 The honourable member would know that in response to a question from the honourable member for Henty some weeks ago I undertook in conjunction with my Department to make an investigation of the problems of the conservation of fauna, particularly kangaroos. Since that time a tremendous amount of information has come into my hands and after the sifting of that information it would be my intention to confer with the other Commonwealth Ministers involved and if need be consult with the State Ministers and then place a submission before Cabinet. As the honourable member would know, this is not an easy matter. Some of the fascinating information that has already come into my hands suggests that approximately 1 million kangaroos have been slaughtered in Australia in each year for the past 80 years. On the other hand there is some evidence put forward by other groups that there is a noticeable scarcity of kangaroos in certain areas. There have been other representations from 
E people  in country areas who still say that kangaroos are an absolute menace not only to their properties but also to the economy. 
To act precipitately in this field would be an act of sheer irresponsibility not only because of the issue of the damage that kangaroos may or may not do to our economy, but also because we must remember that at the moment over Sim a year is gained in this way from export income. To cut off those markets without having reason to do so would be an act which I believe this Government would not consider. This investigation is proceeding. I hope that within a short time I will be able to confer with the other Commonwealth Ministers involved - my colleagues the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Education and Science, and others - and report to Cabinet. 
Although a great percentage of my portfolio is concerned with the activities of certain kinds of birds the species that the honourable gentleman mentions has not yet been brought to my notice. However, I will look into the matter and reply to him directly. 
My answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question is that I would agree with the social worker, who must be respected because, as I understand it, he has had a great amount of experience with young people taking drugs, if he said that health education wrongly directed or in the hands of amateurs can be counterproductive or can be more harmful than useful. On the other hand the honourable gentleman asks whether the Government is concerned with the drug taking problems in Australia and seeks some comparative statistics, lt is very hard to announce a set of facts with any amount of certainty. When I say that the Department of Customs and Excise seized 18 times more marihuana and hashish this year than last year, that can mean a great number of things. It can mean that our methods are more efficient. It can also mean that our competitors' methods are more efficient. There can be no shadow of doubt that international syndicates which want to smuggle this garbage into Australia are stepping up their activities. The honourable gentleman asks how we should regard this. Statistics issued in the United States of America as late as 11th March from the White House indicate that somewhere between 12 million and 20 million Americans today are using, or have used, marihuana and hashish. This is a figure which fills me with great concern. The honourable gentleman also asks what we can do about it. I believe that no matter how efficient we are in the Department of Customs and Excise we cannot and shall not  stop  all the narcotics coming into Australia. We shall stop only the tip of the iceberg and we shall never know how big the submerged part is. So the only conceivable answer is health education and the provision of the appropriate amount of money to support the kind of health education programme that is needed. The kind of health education we need would be not only the education of parents so that they will be aware of the possible dangers and how to alert their children to those dangers, but also the education of the community itself to look for things such as the quality of life rather than the material things which tend to drive people on to seeking false methods of gaining euphoria. 
I understand that at the end of this month there will be a conference, which was scheduled some time ago, of State and Commonwealth officials in Darwin on the general question of conservation of fauna. I also understand that, other than the Commonwealth Government, 3 State governments have listed for the agenda of that conference the question of the conservation of the kangaroo, as distinct from other fauna. As I have said in this House, on 2 previous occasions, there are several Commonwealth departments involved in this situation. So an interdepartmental committee has been established under the chairmanship of a representative of my colleague, the Minister for Education and Science. That committee will meet on Tuesday of next week with a view to putting a concerted opinion to the meeting at Darwin at the end of the month. Other departments represented on that committee are the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Prime Minister's Department and my own Department. The enormous amount of information that has come to my attention since I answered the honourable gentleman's question in this House two or three weeks ago. together with information collected by other depar ments, will be made available to that committee. I think that the honourable member for Henty, the honourable member for Chisholm and other honourable members who have shown an interest in this matter can take some pride in the fact that this is a subject which, hitherto hardly mentioned, is now receiving this sort of priority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is my understanding that the oil industry throughout Australia bases its wholesale pricing structure for petroleum products on the determinations of the South Australian Prices Commissioner. 
I am informed that the oil industry regularly submits details of its costs to the Commissioner for examination. If considered necessary the South Australian Prices Commissioner, after examination of changes in costs incurred by the oil industry, determines fresh wholesale prices which the oil companies by agreement apply throughout Australia. 
I present the report by the Tariff Board on linoleum (Dumping and Subsidies Act). This report does not call for any legislative action. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The  answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
The National Standing Control Committee set up by the Committee of Commonwealth and State Ministers is chaired by the comptrollerGeneral of Customs. Its Members are senior Commonwealth and State officials. For example, the Commonwealth Department of Health is represented by its  Deputy  Director-General, and the Attorney-General's Department by ils First AssistantSecretary. The State Health and Chief Secretary's Departments are represented by department heads or senior officials. The Committeemembers are assisted by expert advisers from various disciplines in the drug field. In addition, the Committee has set up working parties of experts to carry out ad hoc projects and is able to draw on the expertise of the Health Education and Mental Health Committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
See answer to question  (1). 
The term 'drug' has widely varying definitions. The National Standing Control Committee is not precluded from considering the question of abuse of any kind of substance which might be called  a  drug. However, it is primarily concerned wilh drugs which cause physical and 'or psychological dependence. These drugs fall into two main categories, namely: 
narcotic drugs and marihuana, as listed in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs  1961,  to which Australia is a party. 
psychotropic substances such as amphetamines, barbiturates, hallucinogens and some tranquillizers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The agenda for the meetings mentioned by the honourable member include a wide variety of questions concerned wilh law enforcement and health. Included were such matters as cooperation, liaison, training, controls over the illicit movements of drugs, education, research, treatment of addicts, psychotropic substances and penalties for drug offences. Pertinent recommendations of the National Standing Control Committee, subsequently endorsed by the Meeting of Ministers, were as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, the Customs Tariff Bill now before the House provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1969  and relates to changes introduced into Parliament since the commencement of this session. The most recent amendments in the Bill relate to tariff changes introduced in April  1970  implementing Tariff Board reports on: 
Man-made fibres and yarn, tyre cord and tyre cord fabric; 
Gelatine and animal glues; 
Floor and wall coverings; 
Gloves and mittens; 
Secateurs; 
Electric circuit breakers and switch units; and Gang slitting machines and a report by the Special Advisory Authority on cherries, preserved by sugar - drained, glace or crystallised. 
At the time 1 introduced those proposals I explained at some length the nature of the changes involved. In order not to delay unduly the business of the House I do not propose to traverse the same ground again. 
If any honourable member would like a copy of what I said on those occasionsI will be glad to supply him with a Hansard extract. I might reiterate however that, with the exception of the changes relating to man-made fibres, gelatine andanimal glues and petroleum products, the other subjects had been introduced in the previous Parliament and had been the subject of a validation Act in that Parliament. Honourable members will recall that the changes relating to certain petroleum products involved conditional duties to give effect to the Government's policy in relation to the absorption of crude oil production in Australia. 
Other changes in this Bill are changes introduced between the time the previous Parliament was dissolved and before this session commenced. These changes arise from the Government's adoption of Tariff Board reports on: 
Time switches and movements and parts therefor; 
Compressed gas cylinders; 
Almonds; 
Flexible metal tubing, piping and transmission shafts; 
Taximeters; 
Belts, belting ami woven cotton fabrics over 15 ounces per square yard; 
Drawing, measuring and calculating instruments; 
Syringes, injection or puncture needles, etc.; 
Chlorine and sodium hydroxide.  and Special Advisory Authority Reports on: 
Metal-working machine tools; 
Vegetable oils: and 
Curtain hooks of base metal. 
Also included are changes agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand governments for the addition of new commodities to Schedule A of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement and some additional concessions with respect to handmade traditional products of cottage industries of developing countries, were introduced. These changes had been made originally, by Gazette notices, while the Parliament was in recess. On each occasion my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  issued a Press statement giving details of the changes. For the record and for the convenience of honour able members during the ensuing debate I ask for leave for these statements to be taken as read and incorporated in Hansard. 
The statements read as follows: 
Temporary Protection Metal-working Machine Tools 
Released 4 p.m., 2nd October 1969 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr J. McEwen)  today announced that temporary duties would apply to imports of certain general purpose lathes and grinding machines following adoption of a report by the Special Advisory Authority. The temporary duties would operate from tomorrow. They will be additional to the normal duties of 40% (General), 27½% (Preferential) on these items. The Minister explained that on general purpose lathes, the additional temporary duties would be at the rate of 7½% ad valorem plus the amount, if any, by which the f.o.b. price of the imported lathe is less than a base figure which varies according to the lathe's size. On grinding machines, the additional temporary duties would be at the rate of 12½% ad valorem. The temporary additional duties would not apply to goods in direct transit to Australia on 19 August 1969 provided they are entered for home consumption within 21 days after importation. 

 Mr McEwen said that the Special Advisory Authority had found that urgent action was necessary to protect the Australian industry against serious damage from import competition pending receipt and consideration by the Government of the Tariff Board's report on a current inquiry on Machine Tools. The public hearing on this inquiry has not yet been completed.  Mr McEwen  added that the Special Advisory Authority had advised that temporary protection was not necessary in relation to imports of radial drills, or imports of tool and cutter grinding machines. The duties on these products would not be varied. 
Reports of me Tariff Board 
Released 4 p.ni., 10th October 1969 
The Minister for Trade and Industry today released reports of the Tariff Board on flexible metal cubing, piping and transmission shafts; time switches and movements and parts therefor; taximeters; compressed gas cylinders; and almonds.  Mr McEwen  said that the Government had accepted the recommendations and findings in each of the reports. The duty changes would apply as from next Monday morning. The Minister explained that the only change in the duties on flexible metal tubing and piping would be a reduction of the duties on tubing and piping consisting wholly or essentially of spirally wound wire. As a result the duties on all the goods covered by the report would in future be 7i% General and Free Preferential. 
The duties on time of day synchonous motor time switches and movements and parts therefor would be increased from 30% General and 22±% Preferential to 35% General and 25% Preferential. The duties on time switches controlled by electric master clocks would be reduced to 7i% General and Free Preferential. These rates would continue to apply also to other time switches, movements and parts. 
In the case of taximeters, there would be no change in the present ad valorem duties of 35% General and 25% Preferential, but the alternative fixed rate duties would be removed. All parts and accessories for taximeters would become dutiable at the same rates as those applying to the taximeters. Because of impending developments in the industry, it is intended to have the Tariff Board review the protective needs of the industry at the end of three years. 
The effect of the adoption of the Tariff Board's recommendations on gas cylinders would be to increase the duties on most seamless cylinders from 12i% General and Free Preferential to 35% General and 25% Preferential. Duties of 40% General and 30% Preferential would apply to cryogenic containers and welded gas cylinders over 350 lb water capacity. The duties on smaller welded cylinders would remain at 12i% General and Free Preferential. 
The Minister added that adoption of the Tariff Board's recommendations on almonds would increase the duties on most imports, particularly on processed and packaged almonds, which up until now have been mainly free of duty. The new duties would be 15% (General and Preferential) on almonds in the shell, kernels and processed almonds 
The Minister also announced that other tariff changes of an administrative nature would be made at the same time. Action would be taken to make materials which are substitutes for low boiling point brake fluids dutiable at the same rates of duty, 25% General and 15% Preferential, as currently apply to low boiling brake fluids of the type produced in Australia. An administrative change is also being made to apply to diodes for alternators, for use as original equipment in motor vehicles, the same duties as normally apply to similar diodes used in other applications. 
Reports of the Tariff Board 
Released 4 p.m., 17th October 1969 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  today released reports of the Tariff Board on drawing, measuring and calculating instruments; syringes, injection or puncture needles, etc.; forged steel flanges; and belts, belting and woven cotton fabrics.  Mr McEwen  said that the Government had accepted the recommendations and findings in each of the reports. The duty changes would apply as from next Monday morning. 
The Minister explained that in the case of drafting machines, duties would be increased from 30% General and 20% Preferential to 40% General and 30% Preferential. The present duties on steel measuring tapes less than 15 feet in length would be reduced from 35% General and 27* % Preferential to 27i% General and 20% Preferential. A uniform level of duties of 35% General and 17±% Preferential would apply to other drawing, measuring and calculating instruments covered by the Tariff Board's recommendations. 

 Mr McEwen said that duties on syringes of artificial plastic materials would be reduced from 35% General and 25% Preferential, to 30% General and 20% Preferential, while duties on other syringes would remain at  li%  General and Free Preferential. For the present, the existing ad valorem duties of 423% General and 25% 
Preferential would continue to apply to injection or puncture needles, whether or not the needles were imported with syringes, but current temporary specific duties on certain disposable hypodermic needles would cease to operate. On and from 1st January 1973 the duties on needles would be reduced to 30% General and 20% Preferential. The Minister added, however, that as the factory producing needles had been destroyed by fire, the goods will be admitted under by-law until local manufacture is recommenced. 

 Mr McEwen went on to say that duties on imports from New Zealand of syringes, needles, etc. and on drawing, measuring and calculating instruments would be duty free. On some goods, therefore, the duties on New Zealand goods would be removed earlier than the date presently provided in the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
There would be no change in rates of duty on forged steel flanges. The present duties are 40% General and 28% Preferential. 
The Minister added that adoption of the Tariff Board's recommendations on conveyor belts and belting would result in a reduction of duties on metal reinforced rubber belting to 30% General and 20% Preferential, and in the case of textile reinforced rubber belting, duty rates would become 35%, both General and Preferential. Rates for other vulcanised rubber belts and belting would be reduced to 35% General and 25% Preferential, whilst duties on PVC/ textile conveyor belting would be reduced to 40% General and 30% Preferential. 
Other types of textile conveyor belting would be dutiable at increased rates of 40% General and 30% Preferential. Leather and composition leather belting would be dutiable at 35% General and 25% Preferential. These duty rates would also apply to conveyor and elevator belting imported as part of conveyor systems. Reduced rates of duty of 50% General, 40% Preferential would apply to woven cotton fabrics over 15 ounces per square yard. The present duties on these fabrics are mainly 60% General and 50% Preferential. 
Report of Tariff Board 
Released 4 p.m., 6th November 1969 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  today released a report of the Tariff Board on chlorine and sodium hydroxide (caustic soda).  Mr McEwen  said the Government had adopted one of the alternatives recommended by the Board in ils report. As a consequence, the duties on caustic soda would be increased from the present rates of 25% (General) 15% (Preferential) to 55% (General) 45% (Preferential) as from tomorrow morning. No change would be made in the present duty free entry of chlorine. The Minister said that the present arrangement, under which producers of alumina for export secure supplies of caustic soda under bylaw would bc continued, In future, however, this arrangement would be extended to cover caustic soda used in the production of exports of aluminium metal, aluminium semi-fabricates, rare earth metals and rare earth hydrate. 

 Mr McEwen added that the quantity of caustic soda needed to supply these export industries was far in excess of the availability of local supplies. The Government had expectations that, in time, large scale manufacturing plants would be established in Australia to supply this market at prices competitive with those in overseas countries. 
New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement 
Released 4 p.m., 18th December 1969 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  said today that the Australian and New Zealand Governments had reached agreement on a further list of commodities, mainly goods crf iron and steel, to be added to Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement as from 1st January 1970. The additional iron and steel products were being included in Schedule A subject to cerain conditions which were similar to those applying to some other neel items already included in the Agreement.  Mr McEwen  commented that these additions were part of a continuing process of extending the scope of the Free Trade Agreement and indicated the desire of both countries to expand the opportunities for mutually beneficial trade between them. 

<graphic href="067131197005213_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

Temporary Protection Vegetable Oils 
Released 4 p.m., 24th December 1969 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr J. McEwen)  today announced that temporary duties would apply to imports of certain vegetable oils following adoption of a report by the Special Advisory Authority.  Mr McEwen  said that the temporary duties recommended would be in the form of sliding scale duties on the main oils covered by the report and a temporary ad valorem duty on epoxidised vegetable oils. The temporary duties would operate from 30th December 1969. The Minister explained that the sliding scale temporary duty would be equal to the amount, if any, by which the f.o.b. price of the imported oil was less than $1.00 per gallon. It would apply to peanut oil, soya bean oil, rape seed oil, linseed oil, sunflower seed oil, safflower seed oil, cotton seed oil and maize oil. The temporary duty, which will be in addition to normal duties, would not operate where the f.o.b. price is $1.00 or more per gallon. On epoxidised vegetable oils, the temporary duty would be at the rate of 15% ad valorem. This duty would also be in addition to normal duties. The temporary duties will not apply to goods in direct transit to Australia on 12th November, 1969, provided they were entered for home consumption on arrival. 

 Mr McEwen said that the question of the long term protective needs of the industry had been referred to the Tariff Board. The temporary protection now applied was holding action pending the Government's decision on receipt of the Board's report. 
Temporary Protection Curtain Hooks of Base Metal 
Released 4 p.m., 6th February 1970 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr J. McEwen)  today announced that a temporary duty of 25% ad valorem would apply to imports of curtain hooks of base metal, following adoption of a report by a Special Advisory Authority.  Mr McEwen  explained that the temporary duty, which would operate from 9th February 1970, would be in addition to the normal duties. The temporary duty would not apply to goods in direct transit to Australia on 8th December 1969. provided they were entered for home consumption on arrival.  Mr McEwen  said that the question of the long-term protection of  a  range of base metal fittings and mountings, including curtain hooks, was under examination by the Tariff Board. The temporary protection now applied was holding action pending the Government's decision on receipt of the Board's report. 
Comprehensive documentation setting out the various changes in the rates of duty is now being distributed for the use of honourable members during the debate on this Bill. I commend the Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Only one film has been prohibited because of blasphemous content since 1961. This was 'Viridiana which was imported in 1962. 
For this film to have been registered ten segments would have had to be excised. Two of these were for blasphemy and the others for violence or indecency. The producer decided however not to go ahead with registration and the film was exported. 
There have been many instances of course where dialogue taking the name of the Lord in vain has been removed from films, particularly those classified as suitable for television. Detailed statistics of such cuts are not maintained. 
I have seen a number of articles in the 'Financial Review' and also references from time to time in the weekly publication 'Tariff Week', which virtually alleged that the Department of Customs and Excise has intruded into the field of tariff making and policy making. As the Minister now responsible for the administration of the Department of Customs and Excise, I say to the House quite categorically that I do not, nor does my Department, regard any function in the policy making field concerning tariffs as being the responsibility of the Department. That is and always has been the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, and his Department. 
Policy is determined not by the Tariff Board but by Cabinet after recommendations of the Tariff Board are put before Cabinet. At the moment discussions are going on between officers of my Department and representatives of the truck industry because the relevant Customs Tariff gives me, as Minister, and my Department power to admit into Australia duty free those goods for which a suitable equivalent is not reasonably available in Australia. For years, under standing bylaws relating to the truck industry, certain parts for trucks have been imported duty free because there was no suitable equivalent reasonably available in Australia. But as the Australian industry develops, suitable equivalents which have not hitherto been reasonably available in Australia for certain imports do become available. As Minister for Customs and Excise, under the terms of an Act of this Parliament, I am legally obliged in those circumstances to cancel the various by-laws which apply. That we will continue to do, applying the criteria, which are well known to the honourable member. 
VIi' AIRCRAFT 
 Mr Speaker.  I present the report by the Tariff Board on potatoes. This report does not call for any legislative action. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker. I ask for leave to make a statement on this report. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave to move together the amendment and the new clause which have been circulated in the name of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  as the House knows, the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  is attending an important conference in Adelaide. He has asked me to carry this Bill for him. On the question without notice which the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  posed in his 2 minute speech, all I can say, at this short notice, is that Australia is a member of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and, as such, is playing its part, I believe, in bringing about precisely what the honourable gentleman advocates. At this stage, J cannot say any more to him in answer to the specific point that he raised. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in leading for the Opposition, asked me a question concerning the progress of the Legal Committee of ICAO. which was established some lime ago. 
I am informed that it was established in 1968. My brief says that the Legal Committee has prepared a draft convention which will be considered by a diplomatic conference to be held at the Hague on 1st December next. The main provisions of this draft convention are, firstly, each contracting state undertakes to legislate to make it an offence punishable by severe penalties for a person aboard an aircraft to take control of it by force, threats or intimidation, or to attempt to do so; secondly, the jurisdiction of the state applies where an aircraft lands in that state with the offender still on board or when the offence is committed on an aircraft registered in that state; thirdly, any state in which an alleged offender is found shall take him into custody to enable criminal or extradition proceedings to bc commenced; and fourthly the state shall either extradite the offender or deal with him under its own laws. 
The Assembly of this Organisation consists of representatives of all 118 member states. A special extraordinary meeting will be held from 16th to 30th June at the request of Switzerland, Austria and other European states. The agenda is: To develop adequate standards and procedures (a) to prevent criminal action which may  endager the safety of air transport and (b) as to means by which offenders can be brought to justice. Under the first heading a number of proposals have been submitted for consideration at the meeting in relation to such matters as methods of detecting the presence of explosives in passengers' luggage, searching passengers' cargo and mail, preventing persons suspected of being saboteurs from travelling, and other measures directed towards greater security at airports. Under the second heading, proposals have been made for adopting an international convention in relation to acts of violence and sabotage against aircraft on the ground, the authority of the aircraft commander and uniform penalties for offences against persons on board aircraft. 
A question was raised also - I think by the honourable member for Newcastle - about the delay in ratifying the convention. I think he mentioned 7 years which, indeed, is the period of the delay. 1 will not debate the point with him. I accept it. But I put to him that there was not the strongest argument for Australia itself to ratify the 
Tokyo Convention before 1969 because, as the honourable gentleman would know, 12 ratifications from other member states to that convention need to be notified before it can come into force. It is my understanding that it was not until 4th December 1969 that the requisite number of countries had ratified the convention. In the meantime, as the honourable gentleman mentioned, Australia had its own Crimes Aircraft Act of 1963 which provided adequate penalties for offences relating to aircraft and over which the Commonwealth Parliament had legislative powers. That is not quite a complete answer to the question asked by the honourable gentleman but I think that it covers his point. 
Before I sit down, without  wanting to be controversial at this late hour of this session of the Parliament and during this week, I cannot allow the speech by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  to go without one comment coming from the Government. He rightly referred to some difficulties that certain people have at the hands of United States authorities in getting visas to visit Cuba or in getting visas to leave the United States of America and to visit other countries. I would have been happier - I am sure that all honourable members in this House would have been happier - had not the remarks of the honourable gentleman been restricted as usual to a criticism of the United States and had he referred to the difficulties which exist in fact within all Communist countries which apply to their citizens the most extraordinary restrictions on travel inside and outside their countries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I present the following report by the Tariff Board: 
Alginic acid and its derivatives. 
This report is an interim report under the Board's inquiry on plastic products, etc. 
Pursuant to statuteI present also the Special Advisory Authority report on: 
Artificial Christmas trees. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 12 (1970). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals whichI have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1969. The amendments, which will operate from tomorrow, incorporate changes arising from the Government's adoption of recommendations by the Tariff Board in its interim report under the inquiry on plastic products, etc. in relation to alginic acid and its derivatives, and also recommendations by the Special Advisory Authority in his report on artificial Christmas trees. A copy of this speech is being distributed to honourable members so that they can, if they wish, read it with me. A short glossary of unusual terms is included in the normal detailed summary of tariff changes currently being distributed to honourable members. 
On alginates the Tariff Board has recommended duties of 30%, ad valorem, under the Preferential Tariff, with the General Tariff to be set in accordance with international commitments. On artificial Christmas trees the Special Advisory Authority found that urgent action is warranted to protect the Australian industry manufacturing these products in relation to the importation of artificial Christmas trees, branches, foliage and the like. He recommended a temporary additional duty on these goods of 37½%, ad valorem, under the General Tariff and a temporary additional duty under the Preferential Tariff to be set in accordance with international commitments. This means that the temporary duty under the Preferential Tariff will be 35%, ad valorem. The temporary duty is in addition to existing duties of 7½%, ad valorem, General Tariff and Free Preferential Tariff on these goods. Tariff proposals No. 12 also include some changes of an administrative nature only. I commend the Proposals to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cairns)  adjourned. 
I thank the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has raised a valid question. As I understand if, he suggests that the Tariff Board, in costing the production of the product, has put particular emphasis on the electrolytic process or the process of adding chlorine, whereas he knows and slates that there are 2 methods of producing caustic soda, the other being by the soda ash process. He has asked me to supply some statistics on the percentage of the product that is produced by the soda ash process. 1 cannot do that because, as the honourable gentleman knows, the evidence was given to the Tariff Board in camera. He would also be aware that the evidence taken at many Tariff Board hearings, if disclosed publicly, could place one particular company at a disadvantage. I have had checked the statistical records of my Department and of the Department of Trade and Industry. For the reason  I  have staled I cannot disclose the figures held by my Department and the Department of Trade and Industry, but I can say quite definitely to the honourable member that the amount of the product produced by the soda ash process is minima!. That does not entirely satisfy him, but it may slightly relieve his mind. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Tenth Schedule. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of archives repository at Villawood, New South Wales. 
The proposal includes the construction of a single storey repository and a 2-storey office section as stage 1, and a large 3-storey repository as stage 2. The estimated cost is $4m. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee recommended that only air conditioning which will guarantee the reduction of airborne acid pollution to acceptable levels should be used. The Department of Works proposes to measure present pollution levels and estimate future trends prior to preparing detailed designs of the air conditioningplant. The plant will be designed to produce air of purity suitable for long term storage of documents and the installation will be fully tested for performance prior to acceptance from the contractor. Upon the concurrence of the 
House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.44J - by leave - In the past few months the subject of Australian censorship of both films and literature has been widely discussed in newspapers and magazines and  On  radio and television. There have been numerous meetings  on  censorship at universities and other places. There have been cases of picketing of theatres by an organised movement against censorship, lt has become clear that the Australian public now has a livelier interest in the subject than at any previous time. Because the community is so clearly indicating its wish to be more concerned with the principles and systems of Australian censorship, I decided that I should make a statement to the House on the present censorship position and on the Government's attitude to a controversial and sometimes emotional matter. 
I should like to remind honourable members that Australian censorship laws are administered under regulations made by the Parliament. The responsibility does not lie merely with the Minister of the day, nor with the public servants charged with the task of interpreting and applying the regulations. The responsibility stems from the Parliament which, in a social matter of this kind must, from time to time, carefully examine the legislation and its application in the light of current community needs; and I remind the House that the regulations have stood  on  the statute book, in virtually the same form, since Federation. I am reliably informed that this is the first major statement  on  censorship to be made in this chamber since 1938, although there have been very occasional statements made in the Senate. It would be trite for me to observe, and to enlarge  on  the observation, that we have  seen  great social changes in the past 32 years, lt would be unnecessary, and probably tedious, to give the House in this statement a detailed history of social and cultural attitudes and their shifts during that period. Suffice to say that the rate of change has quickened as the years have gone by. stimulated by a variety of events and factors. We are now conscious of an almost daily change. Many deplore the bewildering pace of social development as we enter the 1970s; some deplore that there is any development at all. Be that as it may, we must face reality and we must examine censorship and. indeed, all social and cultural matters affecting the community at large, against conditions and attitudes as they are, at the particular time. 
That sort of interest by which some people are excited by pornography. 
Censorship in Australia 
It has been said that Australia is censoring more and more. If the rate of censorship is examined against the degree of permissiveness in modern films and publications it will be found that Australia is censoring less and less. However, community standards are broadening at a slower rate than the rate of permissiveness, not only in content but in themes attempted. The gap between the 2 grows wider. It should be noted that in the case of literature censorship the courts are the final arbiter. In only 1 case brought before the courts has a customs decision on literature censorship been reversed. A great deal has been done in recent times to keep the censorship system up to date and to ensure that not only the wishes of the community are satisfied but also that art forms in Australia are not unnecessarily inhibited. Action has been taken to encourage all interested authorities to think and act along broadly similar lines. I list some of the steps which have been taken: 
A National Literature Board of Review was established just over 2 years ago and an agreement reached between Commonwealth and States on uniform literature censorship. The membership of the Board is broadly based so that the views of a wide variety of community interests are represented. The cyclical review of prohibited books by the Board has resulted in a number of releases. This process is continuing and the period between reviews is decreasing. 
Concessions have been made to film festival authorities to restrict to a minimum the censorship of festival films on the basis that festival audiences will be adults who attend because of their interest in the art of the film. These concessions are open to argument because it may appear that special privileges are being granted to a small section of the community. 
Examples of censored films have been shown to members of Parliament, representatives of mass media and church representatives. 
The regulation prescribing any censorship for Australian films to be exported has been withdrawn. 
A simplified and open system has been devised to enable members of Parliament to examine prohibited literature. 
Discussions have been held on the introduction of an X' or 'R' certificate. I have been particularly concerned by the absence of a restricted classification for films- the 'X* or 'R' certificate. By this means films can be examined for censorship for adult audiences. For restricted classification to be effective. State legislation is necessary to ensure that young people under the specified age are not admitted to theatres at which restricted films are showing. This is turn calls for co-operation on the part of the exhibitors, and I am in the process of inviting State Ministers to discuss this, problem again. I am encouraged by their willingness to meet and talk. 
A full-scale revision of the film censorship regulations is under way, - with special regard to the appeal system. A number of the provisions in the existing regulations is considered to be out of tune with conditions of today. 
The criteria emphasis has been 'shifted from 'the tendency to deprave and corrupt' to the community standards, which is the tacit involvement of the community. 
I am about .to authorise the regular release of titles of feature films rejected and the length and nature of cuts made in feature films. The information will be released monthly by means of a bulletin issued by the Chief Film Censor. The first of these bulletins will cover the month of May and will be issued during . the coming week. The bulletin will also disclose the nature of the censored material. 
In concluding the second reading of this debate I would like to thank honourable members for the splendid contributions that they have made to this debate. Because of the importance of tariffs to the Parliament I believe that had the debate not been held at such a late hour and such a late stage in the session we might have had more speakers. Perhaps this is my fault. It is customary to leave this debate deliberately until late in the session so that the Bill before the House can incorporate all those tariff proposals which come before the House from time to time. I will in future try to encourage the debate which this subject deserves. 
As Minister for Customs, who administers the policy laid down by the Government, I am pleased to see the increasing interest that other honourable members have shown concerning tariff policy. I pay a passing tribute to the increasing interest displayed by certain weekly and daily journals on this subject. 1 mention specifically the excellent references to tariff policy - some of which  I  agree with and some 1 do not - in the 'Financial Review' and Tariff Week' which spotlight and highlight the Government's tariff policy. 1 refer briefly to one or two points that have been made. I shall reserve my comments on the remarks made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  until schedule 13 is discussed. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  made 3 points to which I would like to refer. He reasserted his kindly charge that my Department could be pursuing its new bard, line on its application of by-law policy. All I can do is repeat what 1 said in answer to him last week, that my Department does not concern itself with policy making, lt is concerned purely with the implementation of policy laid down by Cabinet. If the honourable member has any specific - I was going to use the word 'accusations' but that might he too strong - cases which he would like to refer to me specifically then 1 would be delighted to investigate them and report to him in public from the floor of this House. 
The honourable member for Wakefield mentioned the by-law procedure and he used the unfortunate expression that it operated under cover. He said that he was not suggesting anything sinister but he did suggest that there may be too many secret decisions and secret discussions about by-law policy. The honourable member is raising a most significant and fundamental point. If he does want these matters raised in public evidence before a Tariff Board inquiry or before some other kind of tribunal, he must consider the possible delays that would be consequent upon such a decision; so it is not as easy as he may well have asserted. 1 was concerned at his statement that export industries that relied on containing their products in cartons were not eligible for the drawback provisions of the tariff. If the honourable gentleman reads the naked words of his speech, it may well be construed that my Department, which is charged with applying the drawback provisions, may not be giving drawback where perhaps it should be. 
 I know the honourable member did not mean it but. for the record, I just say that, as he would concede in the particular industry that he had in mind, there may well be other considerations than the difficulties facing my Department that preclude the drawback being given to potential exporters who deservedly need it. I. conclude with a reference to the statements made by members of the Opposition that my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, is not present at these debates. My colleague recommends to Cabinet, on the basis of Tariff Board reports, tariff policy. Once Cabinet or the Government makes the decision, that is reported to this Parliament, and then it is my responsibility to implement that policy. 
 The decision is important, indeed. 
1 should have thought that the reasons for Government policy were amply described at the time of declaring or reporting that decision to Parliament. However, for the record, I make the following statement on behalf of and in the name of my colleague. Tariff policy is the responsibility of the Government, both in general and in relation to every single decision. The Government gives the Tariff Board the task of inquiring into, and giving the Government the benefit of its advice on, questions referred to it by the Government. The Tariff Board is an independent body, lt has developed on this basts for almost half a century. The Government has never tried to lay down for the Board the procedures it should follow in carrying out its responsibilities. The Board's task is simply to provide the Government with an adequate basis on which the Government can make its decision. The decision itself is the Government's responsibility and there can be no question of delegating this responsibility. The appropriate level of protection in any particular case can only be determined on the basis of a careful consideration of all the facts relevant to that particular industry. There can be no question of any predetermined upper limit to the level of protection that may be justified. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
First Schedule. 
The amendment proposed by the Labor Party is unacceptable to the Government. I appreciate and understand the reasons put forward by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  but 1 cannot agree with them. Perhaps after I have given a brief explanation the honourable member will reconsider his decision to divide the House on this issue. The honourable member perhaps does not realise the effect that the omission of the Thirteenth Schedule would have on much of the man-made fibres concerned. The temporary duties that had previously applied lapsed 3 months after the Tariff Board report was received by my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  Those tariffs cannot be reimposed without further reference to the Special Advisory Authority. Of 35 or 36 tariff changes set out in the analysis circulated for the assistance of honourable members, only 12 references would revert to the higher rates of duty proposed under this Bill. To put it another way, two thirds of the changes would be reductions if the Labor Party's amendment were carried. I do not think that would be the intention of the honourable gentleman. lt may be appropriate here to remind the Committee that the Minister for Trade and Industry has answered criticism of the Government's adoption of this Tariff Board's report earlier this week; so it has been answered on the floor of the House. If the textile industry finds itself in considerable economic peril, it could apply to my colleague for a reference to the Special Advisory Authority. Before I resume my seat and before the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  takes up the cudgels, I know he would bc interested to hear from mc a report on action which my own Department has taken concerning this industry, after discussions with the Department of Trade and Industry. The Australian industry meets only about 40% of Australian demand for man-made fibre yarns. The balance, 60%, is imported. In the past it has been imported at non-protective rates usually under by-law. The Board's report suggested discontinuance of the by-law entry. But on representation by the industry as a whole through the Textile Council, by-law entry will be accorded until the end of this year on yarns which were previously dutiable at non-protective rates in their own right or admitted under by-law. This measure, which is of particular interest to weavers, provides a breathing space for the industry to adjust to the circumstances created by the implementation of the Board's report. Before resuming my seat I say to the honourable member for Lalor that he has made his point in his speech. I wonder whether he would consider, before he divides the Committee, the implications of his action in the light of the information which I have given. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to 10 1970 constituting part of Order of the Day No. 33, Government Business, be discharged. 
These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Bill 1970 which has now been assented to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
DIESEL FUEL TAX BILL (No. 1) 1970 Bill presented by  Mr Chipp,  and read a first time. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill, to amend the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1) 1957-1966, contains amendments consequent upon the alteration in Customs and Excise duties in the Tariff Proposals earlier tonight 
The Bill varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel which is sold or disposed of to a person who is not the holder of a certificate and is therefore not entitled to receive concessional treatment. I commend the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
DIESEL FUEL TAX BILL (No. 2) 1970 Bill presented by  Mr Chipp,  and read a first time. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) 1957-1966 and is complementary to the Bill I have just introduced. The Bill varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel used in propelling a road vehicle on a public road. T commend the bill. 
Debate (on motton by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I am unable to say to the honourable member after looking at all the cases over the last 2 years that in balance the sentences have been too light, too strong or satisfactory. What I can say and what I have said is that it is causing me deep concern that in a number of decisions recently where the evidence seemed to scream for some severe penalty very light penalties were imposed. In fact, in one case only a fine was administered. Whether or not the Government should consider imposing minimum penalties is a very serious matter. I know that the Attorney-General would share the view I have, and I suspect that the Opposition would also share the view, that responsible Government would impose minimum penalties for offences only where there are overwhelming reasons for so doing. I know that at least some of my State colleagues are becoming concerned at the statistics of the increase of drug smuggling. For example, in the 12 months ended this July we will have seized 20 times more hashish and marihuana than we seized in the preceding 12 months. Only a few weeks ago we seized 50,000 tablets of LSD imported from America, all of which were pre-sold. We have evidence that the importation and consumption of heroin is increasing in Australia. 
As far as bail is concerned, this too causes us concern. We regard bail as a right of an accused under the British form of justice. But it is a right that is given to a person after a judge has, I believe, sensibly viewed all of the situation. Not only have the rights of the accused to be protected but the rights of the community must surely take some place in the judge's mind. I am dismayed - I use that term strongly and advisedly - that notwithstanding strenuous opposition by the narcotics squad before the courts, in certain cases where we suspect collusion and that the accused will alert his colleagues and so on, our investigations have been upset because not only has bail been given but also bail amounting to $100 or S200 has been granted for offences that can bring 10 years gaol or a fine of $10,000, or both. For this reason I have asked my Department to submit to me a comprehensive report of the charges, convictions and sentences over the last 2 years so that I can make a balanced judgment on this and consult with my colleague the Attorney-General and the Stale Ministers. 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Alloy steel, high carbon steel and electrical steels. 
Breathing appliances and artificial respiration apparatus. Calcium carbide. 
Ceramic tableware (New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement). 
Cinematograph projector*. 
Footwear with non-leather uppers, etc. 
Sorbitol and mannitol. 
Relays. 
Vulcanised rubber sheets, etc., and Paper clips  of  base metal (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
The last report does not call for any legislative action. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I move: Customs Tariff Proposal No. 14 (1970). Customs Tariff Proposal No. 15 (1970). Customs Tariff Proposal No. 16 (1970). Customs Tariff Proposal No. 17 (1970).  Customs  Tariff Proposal No. 18 (1970). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 14 to 18 (1970) formally place before Parliament the tariff changes made by Gazette notices and published in the Gazettes of 2nd and 6th July and 3rd and 4th August while the Parliament was in recess. The changes arise from Tariff Board reports on sorbitol and mannitol, alloy steel, high carbon steel and electrical steels, calcium carbide, vulcanised rubber sheets, electrical relays, cinematograph projectors, breathing appliances and artificial respiration apparatus and footwear with non-leather uppers, etc. Other changes extend the list of commodities in Schedule A of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. 
Honourable members will recall (hey received copies of Press statements from my colleague, the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry at the time the tariff changes were gazetted. These statements set out the origin of the alterations. For this reason I do not propose to go over the same ground at this juncture but when the Tariff Bill to enact these proposals is introduced I will propose that that information be incorporated in Hansard for the convenience of honourable members in the ensuing debate. A detailed summary of the changes and rates of duty is now being distributed to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of mail exchange building, Adelaide. 
The proposal involves construction of a steel framed building of 5 levels plus basement area and roof top plant room, to contain mail handling facilities and associated services. A post office and Customs Office will also be provided. Staff amenities include a cafeteria, recreation areas and training section. The estimated cost is $5.5m. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal. Upon the concurrence of this House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member has been extracted under three headings: 
Origin of Voyage - Middle East (see Schedule A). 
Origin of Voyage - Far East (see Schedule B). 
Origin of Voyage- North America (see Schedule C). 
The honourable member for La Trobe, together with other honourable members, has been quite persistent in his representations about this suggestion. I am pleased to say that the Government has reconsidered the position and has resolved that the Phosphate Fertiliser Bounty Act should be amended to apply the increased bounty to unsold stocks in the hands of resellers at the date of the increase. This means that legislation will be introduced making retrospective payment of the increase in respect of those stocks held at midnight on 12th August 1969. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to cany out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of freight aprons, taxiways, runway extension and engineering services at Melbourne Airport. 
The work includes the construction of freight aprons and associated taxiways, taxiway development, fillet widening for Boeing 747 operations, the extension of the north-south runway to 12.000 feet, additional roads and car parks and extensions of the electrical water supply. The estimated cost is $17.3m. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal. Upon the concurrence of this House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed m accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am advised that the stalk of the tobacco plant is not incorporated in manufactured tobacco products. 
However, Australian tobacco and cigarette manufacturers, since about 1940, have followed a world wide trend of incorporating the stem of the tobacco leaf, which is the vein separating the lamina on each side of the stem, with the leaf in the production of tobacco and cigarettes. The utilisation of tobacco leaf stems by special processing methods is a result of one of the major technological advancements in the tobacco industry throughout the world over the years. 
I have no information on the financial savings for companies utilising tobacco leaf stems which were previously discarded. 
The honourable member for Angas, my colleague the Minister for Health and the honourable members for Riverina and Sturt have made representations to me about this. There is some concern in the wine industry - why I do not know - about the method of collection of the new excise on wine. The industry is concerned that the system of commodity control which my department administers will add severely to their costs. This would not be so because the existing procedures have been observed for years with fortifying spirit and with brandy. It is simply a daily declaration of how much they have entered for home consumption. The calculation of excise is a simple one. If they release 1,000 gallons of wine at 50c a gallon, the amount payable will be $500. The declaration and the cheque are posted to my Department. I cannot understand how the concern that this will add to their clerical or administrative costs is founded. 
As to the second part of the question, it is true that many wineries have in stock quantities of fortified spirit on which they have already paid 40c a proof gallon to my Department. Some of that spirit would be added to wine to make fortified wines such as muscat and sherry. That represents about 1.5c a bottle. That sum of 1.5c will be offset against the new tax of 8c a bottle on wine. So double taxation will be avoided. 
The honourable member asked about time to pay. My Department is conscious of the fact that many small or expanding wineries might find that the sudden imposition of such an excise will affect their liquidity in the short run. My Department always administers these things temperately and with mercy. It is certainly not our wish to embarrass any winery in this way. If any winery has a genuine problem arising from the new tax, we will accommodate that winery as far as we can. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
Since August 1968 there have been four persons charged with offences under the Customs Act who have failed to appear in Court after having been released on bail - details of these cases are 
Asian seaman arrested in possession of i lb heroin and 21 lb opium. Bail was set at $1,000. The seaman left Australia and is still at large. 
Australian trafficker arrested in possession of approximately 32 lb cannabis. Bail was set at $300. This person was recently rearrested in company with known drug distributors after being at large for some 5 months. At the time of his arrest he was negotiating the purchase of a further large consignment of cannabis. 
Asian Seaman (courier) arrested after he delivered 1 oz of heroin to a Sydney purchaser. Released on his own recognizance. This seaman left Australia and is still at large. 
Female juvenile arrested in possession of small quantity of cannabis. Living conditions and physical condition of this person could only he described as appalling. Released into custody of her parents on her own recognizance. Has again disappeared and is still at large. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species, is now so low that they may become extinct. There are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. lt is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray, that: 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control. Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. 
And your petitioners, therefore, as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House ' of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Hotham respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to bc the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbec, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are Contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased' - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members' of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever. pray. 
Petition received and read. 
As the honourable member for Ballaarat has said, the Minister for Primary Industry on Thursday last said that an interdepartmental committee would consider this matter last Friday, which it did. As 1 understand it, an agreement exists between New Zealand and Australia that Australia will take surplus New Zealand potatoes - I understand that these potatoes are for crisping purposes - only when that particular commodity is in short supply in Australia. The interdepartmental committee found that there was no such short supply at this stage and has recommended that I refuse the application to import the 500 tons of potatoes. I have agreed with the committee's recommendation. 
Last week in answer to a question in this House I made statements concerning the new tax on wine. Notwithstanding those statements, which received some publicity, some spokesmen for the wine industry have seen fit to say in the Press that the Commonwealth Government was levying double tax on wine. In my statement last week I said that the Government was not doing so. The spokesman for the wine industry made other accusations and complaints which I thought I had allayed the week before. Because of this and because the tax is a new one I have requested the Comptroller-General of Customs, who is the permanent head of my Department, to convene a meeting of industry representatives tomorrow afternoon. Members of the industry have indicated that they will be present. The meeting will enable all the bugs to be ironed out and the mechanics to be set straight. Comments on preliminary teething troubles with the tax can be listened to at the highest level in my Department and discussed. 
The honourable members for Wakefield and Angas, the Minister for Health and the honourable members for Riverina, Sturt and Paterson have made representations to me concerning the initial levy of the excise which might affect the industry's capacity to pay in the short run. My Department has been studying this aspect for some time. My personal view is that it seems prehistoric to collect excise on the day on which goods are entered for human consumption. It would seem to me to be common sense that business practices should prevail. I understand that the present practice, which has operated for years, is based on the traditional view that goods cannot be taken out of bond until the excise is paid. It seems to me to be common sense for the excise to be paid periodically, whatever the period might be. 1 am having discussions with my colleague, the Treasurer, on this question and 1 hope to make a submission to Cabinet and a statement to the House in due course. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is yes, I am aware of the differential. Secondly, I would remind the honourable member that the 2 commodities are quite different, notwithstanding that in some cases the product is the same, namely, a vision on television. Thirdly, I am not prepared to take any steps because my Department is simply there to administer the tariff policy of the Government and that policy as now determined gives a differential tariff on tapes from film. The industry itself has a crystal clear course of action. The Tariff Board is set up precisely for that purpose and matters can be referred to it after representations to the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
If I may correct the honourable member, my Department has not banned 'Portnoy's Complaint' because it is pornographic. The Department has declared it a prohibited import in terms of regulation 4a, the provisions of which should be well known to honourable members. I would like to comment on the South Australian decision. We have had uniform literature censorship in Australia for over 2 years - since 1st January 1968. This has worked extremely well. There have been criticisms of individual cases of literature censorship but I think most of the critics would say that the uniformity has worked quite well since we came out of the Dark Ages of 7 different censorship systems. 
If I might express a personal view - 1 emphasise that it is personal - I do not find myself diametrically opposed to the philosophy espoused by the South Australian Attorney- 
General that adults in private should be denied the minimum amount of material to read, see or hear. However, senior officers of my Department have told me that in other countries, such as New Zealand, this philosophy on literature censorship is extremely difficult to police. For example, in New Zealand books such as this which have a restricted release are freely available without question after a period of time in milk bars. That would concern me and I am sure it would greatly concern this Government I am sure that the South Australian experiment will be watched with great interest by other Slate governments. 
I have not yet seen a text of the statement made by the South Australian Attorney-General; I have seen only the Press reports. I do not know whether his laissez-faire policy would extend to the limit of abolishing censorship for adults. I believe 1 am expressing the view of this Government and honourable members on this side of the House when I say that if be does intend to allow to be printed and sold in South Australia books depicting excessive violence, hard core pornography or incitement to drug taking, we on this side would take a very strong view against, the proposition. As far as I am concerned we would prohibit the importation of such works. 
The decision of the South Australian Attorney-General about this particular book came at a most unfortunate time. I was surprised and disappointed that 2 weeks before a conference of State Chief Secretaries and Federal Ministers on the question of censorship, at which 'Portnoy's Complaint' was to be considered, the South Australian Attorney-General found fit to take unilateral action on it. Whatever faults might have been discovered in the censorship laws in the last 2 years, at least there has been uniformity throughout Australia. I think it would be one of the great tragedies of our time so far as censorship is concerned if we returned to the insanity of having 7 censorship systems such as was the case prior to 1968. 
TELEPHONES  Mr BERINSON-  I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether it k a fact that telephone subscribers who wish to avoid the possibility of unauthorised and undetectable long distance calls can have their telephones barred so as to disconnect them from the subscriber trunk dialling service. Is it a fact that for most telephones the cost of the work involved would not exceed about $10 and is a once only expense to the subscriber? If so, how does his Department justify its quoted charge for this barring facility of $20 per telephone per year? If it is intended to discourage manual trunk calls would he not consider that the same object could be achieved more fairly by placing a surcharge on those who actually use the manual system where the STD alternative is available? Will he undertake to review the question of barring charges? 
I move: 
That the following proposed new work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of the Port of Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal includes construction of a small ships facility on Frances Bay, the East Arm bulk port, the general cargo berth at Fort Hill West and associated railway and road works. The estimated cost of the proposed works is $19.03m. I table plans of the proposed works. To enable the Government to meet an established programme of design development and construction which is necessary to ensure effective coordination of the various components of the proposal, I would request the Committee's co-operation in making it an objective to table its report during the present parliamentary session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I do not know whether Australian insurance companies are adopting the practice which is being adopted by insurance companies overseas of insisting on either a declaration that an applicant for insurance is not a drug user or on a medical examination to delect whether an applicant is a drug user. Any insurance company can demand, and insurance companies often do demand, a medical examination of anybody who takes out a life assurance policy. As far as marihuana is concerned. I am not surprised that insurance companies overseas have taken the step which the honourable member has mentioned. There is an abundance of evidence in this confusing area that marihuana is harmful, can be harmful and can have an effect on life expectancy. 
My Government and, no doubt, insurance companies rely on the impeccable verdict of an expert committee of the World Health Organisation which met on this subject as late as last year. This committee comprised a group of expert pharmacologists, scientists and doctors. It stated unequivocally that marihuana was a drug of dependence and should be banned in all countries which were members of the United Nations. Wilh that kind of evidence, only a government full of irrespon sibility would consider legalising this drug. In face of that evidence, I am not surprised that insurance companies are taking the steps that they are taking. 
I move: 
Thai, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Point PeronGarden Island Causeway, naval support facility (Cockburn Sound), Western Australia. 
The proposal involves construction of a causeway approximately 13,500 feet in length to provide access from the mainland near Point Peron to Garden Island to facilitate the construction and operation of naval support facilities on the Island. The causeway will provide for: A 24-foot wide dual lane roadway; a 5-foot wide footway; water, power and communications services; and road lighting. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $9m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of engineering services to sub-divisions of Racecourse West, Morris Soak and Bradshaw Drive at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
The proposed work involves the construction of sealed roads, footpaths, stormwater drainage, water supply and sewerage systems to provide 920 residential lots and 31 special sites. In addition to the services within the sub-divisions, the proposal includes construction of main stormwater and sewerage works. The estimated cost is $5.25m. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee concluded that more serviced land than previously made available should be auctioned for private housing purposes. The Government recognises that there is an increasing demand for private housing lots and intends  to  make more of these available in future releases of serviced land. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that information on the amount of Customs duty paid by, or exempted in respect of, specific industries is not available. 
However, he has supplied the following table showing imports cleared for home consumption by type of duty, of (i) liquid and solid caustic soda (sodium hydroxide), (ii) soda ash (sodium carbonate and sodium carbonate decahydrate) and (iii) chlorine, for each of the years 1965-66 to 1969-70. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Customs and Excise at present operates two high speed launches from the Port of Brisbane. 
With these launches, continuing patrol and surveillance is maintained both in the Port of Brisbane and in Moreton Bay. These facilities form part of the preventive screen operated by the Department of Customs and Excise along the whole of the Australian coastline. This screen ls backed up by other resources which can be directed to counter smuggling attempts. This provides effective protection against the smuggling of illegal imports, although it is very difficult to anticipate and counter smuggling at the actual point of importation. 
 Australian . Army: Marine Base (Question No. 1576)  Mr Keogh  asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is consideration being given to the establishment of an Army marine base in Queensland. 
If so, would the area of Moreton Bay between the Brisbane and Logan Rivers be a most suitable area for such a base. 
If so, will he give special attention to this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Budget estimates are prepared in advance and cannot take into account unpredictable occurrences during the financial year, which would affect trends in consumption and in turn receipts. It is important to note that this 'shortfall' represents only 2 per cent of estimated excise receipts. 
Nc. 
Under traditional methods, officers were in routine attendance at excise factories to oversight and keep comprehensive departmental records of the firm's activities. Now, officers make random visits and cany out planned selective checks of the firm's commercial records. 
No. Documentary control has a high degree of revenue protection. 
Inherent in the system of 'Documentary Control' is an element of physical control. For example, officers test check actual against book stocks as well as quantities being made, received, delivered or measured against supporting documentation. 
Papua and New Guinea! Justices  of  the Peace (Question No. 1669) 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 19 (1970). The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. Proposals No. 19 (1970), which operates from tomorrow, implements the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's report on pencils, crayons and chalks. In its report the Board recommends duties of 25 per cent general tariff, 15 per cent preferential tariff for ordinary lead pencils. This represents an increase of  2i  per cent general tariff, 5 per cent preferential tariff of the value of loose pencils but in relation to boxed goods and cheap pencils duties will be somewhat reduced. Tariff protection is reduced on school chalks by  27 i  per cent or more of their value. Other goods, such as crayons and slate pencils, will now be admitted at non-protective rates of duty of  7i  per cent general tariff, free preferential tariff. 
The Government is also adding to the list of hand-made traditional products of cottage industries that are granted duty free admission from developing countries and to the range of products which are eligible for concessional admission under the preferential tariff quota system for goods from developing countries. These proposals give effect to this decision. Effect is also being given to an accelerated duty phaseout on aluminium sulphate imported from New Zealand as agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. This product, previously included in Schedule A to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, would have been due for duty free admission on 1st January 1974. The normal detailed summary of tariff changes is being distributed to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Sulphate of Ammonia Bounty Bill, the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill, the Pyrites Bounty Bill and the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Bill. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in the one debate- 
I present the following report by the Tariff Board: 
Pencils, crayons and chalks. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The matters that have been raised by honourable members will be considered by the Government in its general consideration of the Tariff Board's reports. May I refer specifically to a point raised by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  which directly affects the administration of my Department. Because of his representations I am aware that a shipment of urea which was sent to Western Australia was faulty in some respects. 1 understand that it was faulty because the ship in which it was transported was not entirely suitable. Particles of rust became mixed with the cargo thereby making it faulty. Bounty was paid on that urea for the very good reason that we did not receive complaints from any farmers. AsI understand the situation, the first complaint we received was a forceful one from the honourable member for Canning. If any product which attracts bounty is faulty my Department wants to hear from the people who use it.I can only urge the honourable member and all other honourable members to press farmers to report faulty products to my Department, when immediate remedial action will be taken. With a view to ensuring the arrival of products at their destination in good condition periodic and regular checks are made and samples taken at the works to ensure that goods leaving a factory are in good condition for sale. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second  time. 
This Bill provides for increases in customs tariff rates and is complementary to the Excise Tariff Bill I have just introduced. The Bill is necessary to give effect to the Government's Budget in relation to tobacco products, certain refined petroleum products and wine of fresh grapes. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Henty continues his interest in the preservation of Australian wild life. Newspaper reports of the increase in the smuggling of birds both in and out of Australia are essentially true. My Department is becoming increasingly concerned with it. Indeed one can understand why this trade flourishes when one considers the prices that some Australian birds bring overseas, particularly in European countries. The bird of paradise, for example, on the black market in Europe brings, I understand, about $10,000 a pair and the green rosella about $1,500 a pair. We have evidence of cruelty to birds being shipped in great quantities under rather inhumane conditions. To try to combat this trade my Department has undertaken special courses in the Prevention and Detection Section, with lectures from experts, and is increasing the number 'of people engaged in this activity. While such profits can be made in this area it is difficult to stop the trade. As our methods and efficiency improve in major ports and airports one disturbing feature is that the trade tends to move into the northern and isolated areas of Australia. But I can assure the honourable member that  my  Department is conscious of this trade and is doing its best to tackle it. 
1 would agree essentially with the premise of the honourable gentleman's question, but the matter he raises of the Department of Customs and Excise controlling the activities in and out of New Guinea is a question which, obviously, is not one for me to answer. I can assure him that, as far as the control of the export and import of birds is concerned in Aus* tralia, my Department is doing all that it can to increase its efficiency. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Augmentation of town water supply, Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves construction of major works to cater for increased demand on the town water supply and includes bore pumping equipment, collection mains and balancing tank, delivery pumping station and power supply, a 7 million gallon reservoir and a 30-inch diameter trunk main. The estimated cost is $2.4m. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee concluded that the target date for completion of the trunk main should be advanced to September 1972. This will be done. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Provision of 40 transportable houses and one classroom for the RAAF Base, Learmonth, Western Australia. 
The proposal provides for the purchase, delivery and erection of 40 transportable houses and one classroom building. The houses will be erected on serviced blocks or land made available by local authority. The classroom will be provided as an addition to the existing school. The estimated cost is $775,000. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and, upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House amends the Excise Tariff Act in acordance with Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 which I tabled on 18th August last. The changes, which operate from 19th August 1970, give effect to the Government's Budget measures within the excise field. Increased excise duties are imposed on manufactured tobacco products and certain refined petroleum products and a duty is imposed for the first time on grape wine. Honourable members will recall that in tabling the Tariff Proposals I stated that the Government will grant an exemption from the wine excise to persons who produce wine for their own use in quantities not exceeding 400 gallons annually. This exemption will be granted through departmental bylaw procedures. Also included in the Bill is an amendment removing the excise duty that previously applied to spirits used to fortify wine. A summary of the changes is being circulated. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Augmentation of electrical supply system, central city area. Darwin. 
The proposal involves construction of a city zone substation and associated switchgear, 2 66 kv underground cables, 2 additional 11 kv switching stations and 11 kv underground cables to upgrade the electrical supply system in the central City of Darwin. The estimated cost is $3.05m. The 
Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
-I understand that the information contained in the honourable gentleman's question is essentially true except for perhaps 2 points. The Government took action before June on the importation of non-cheddar cheeses, in fact, representations were made by the industry and trade unions which were concerned with the alleged dumping of non-cheddar cheeses in Australia. In April I referred the matter to the Tariff Board for examination and report, after having established that a prima facie case of dumping of non-cheddar cheeses existed. Then on 8th September we began collecting cash securities to cover dumping and to protect local industry and local employment from goods exported from exporting countries on or after 8th September 1970. The honourable gentleman asked whether all countries that export to Australia have restrictions on Australian cheese. That is not my information. I understand that some of them have. If the honourable gentleman knows of any circumstance where countries with which we have a trade agreement are restricting Australian imports, it would be his duty to inform my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, who would look into the matter. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within lt as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. And your petitioners, as iti duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide temporary assistance to local manufacturers currently producing bountiable tractors additional to the normal assistance provided by the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966. The decision to introduce amending legislation was taken after an urgent review by the Government of the. Australian tractor manufacturing industry during which evidence was received from the two registered manufacturers - Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd of Western Australia and International Harvester Co. of Australia in Victoria - that the industry was facing serious damage from import competition. Since the Special Advisory Authority is not empowered to recommend on variations in bounty assistance, it was not appropriate for the problem to be referred to him for consideration. The assistance now proposed will be additional to and at rates equal to those now paid on production under the present Act. The assistance will only be paid in respect of bountiable tractors produced at premises registered under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966 as at 1st July 1970. The amendment extends the bounty to 30th June 1972 subject to earlier termination by proclamation if appropriate. It is estimated that this additional assistance will cost the Government $ 1.25m to the end of the 1970-71 financial year, an amount which it is considered will sustain the industry in the current situation. The Government will review the situation before the 1971-72 Budget to determine the effect of this additional assistance and if necessary adjust the rate of payment. In addition, the Tariff Board will be asked to report on the question of longer term assistance to the industry. Without this further assistance it is possible that the country could lose an important industry involving a large capital outlay and directly employing some 1,400 persons, many of whom are highly skilled. Some reduction in the normal labour force has already occurred. I commend the Bill to honourable members. [Debate, (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned.] 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For New South Wales- The  Hon.  E. A. 
Willis, M.L.A., Minister for Labour and Industry, Chief Secretary and Minister for Tourism. 
Victoria- The  Hon. Sir Arthur  Rylah, K.B.E., C.M.G., E.D., M.L.A., Chief Secretary. 
Queensland - The  Hon.  A. M. Hodges, M.L. A., Ministerfor Works and Housing. 
South Australia - The  Hon.  A. J. Shard, M.L.C., Chief Secretary- and Minister for Health. 
Western Australia - The  Hon.  J. F. Craig, M.L.A., Chief Secretary and Minister for Police and Traffic. 
The Attorney-General of Tasmania was represented by an observer. 
Ministers agreed that the preparation of uniform legislation for enactment in each State is desirable and that the legislation should extend to all facets of the sale and control of firearms and offences relating to the use of firearms. 
Conference appointed a sub-committee of officers to set out a draft of the principles of uniform legislation which would be circulatedfor further consideration by Ministers. 
My colleague the Minister lor External Territories has advised me that there has been no uniform legislation brought into operation in respect of the Territories of Papua and New Guinea, Norfolk Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands or Christmas Islands. 
He has further indicated that when the model Bill of uniform legislation has been pre-; pared then it will be considered and where provisions are appropriate they will be incorporated into the legislation of the several Territories. It is felt by my colleague that the external territories face very different problems from those found in the States and mainland Territories and such Territories, particularly Papua and New Guinea, could not be committed to uniform practices unless these were indeed appropriate to the Territory needs. 
My colleague the Minister for the Interior, who has responsibility tor firearms legislation in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, has advised me that there is as yet no agreed uniform legislation for the States or Territories. Although there are considerable differences in firearms legislation throughout Australia, the legislation of both Territories does provide strict controls over all types of firearms. 
On the question of uniformity, my colleague has advised me that he will be pleased to introduce uniform legislation in accordance with any decisions which might be taken by the responsible Commonwealth and State Ministers. 
May 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 1) 1970, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2) 1970 and the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1970, as they are related measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 in reply - 1 compliment all speakers in the debate for the constructive comments that have been made about the 4 Bills before the House, particularly because most of them involve provocative and challenging subjects. I will comment briefly on some of the issues raised. The theme of the member of the Australian Labor Party who led for the Opposition seemed to be that the taxes in question were hidden taxes, indirect taxes, to which the Labor Party was categorically opposed as a matter of political and fiscal philosophy. This might sound fine as a speech theme. As a piece of philosophy it does sound good to the body politic, but promises have to be examined in the light of performance. I do not have at my disposal the current break-up of the percentage of indirect taxes raised in proportion to direct taxes under a Liberal-Country Party Government but I would be astonished if it rivalled the performance of the last Labor Government which, in its last year of office, raised 52 per cent of its total tax income from indirect taxes. This was the highest incidence of indirect tax raising by any government since Federation. 
We happen to be in a Commonwealth Parliament, and if the Opposition is going to challenge the Government on questions of policy I would have imagined it could be speaking from a position of strength if its own performance measured up to what it promises to do. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  did not challenge the right of the Commonwealth to collect additional revenue. I appreciated that attitude expressed in his speech. It was a responsible attitude. But the honourable member did oppose a tax on wine as did other members of the Labor Party. It seemed to me to be rather odd that members of the Labor Party, the confessed champions of the working class, the self-confessed champions of people in lower income groups, most of whom drink beer, should throughout the whole of the debate make no mention at all of the excise on beer. On the one hand we had the view put that they did not challenge the right of the Government to raise additional revenue but on the other hand there was not one word of criticism about the excise on beer. 
No. not at all, but one presumes from what has been said by speakers from the Labor Party that wine drinkers should not be taxed although it is perfectly all right to tax beer drinkers. I thought this was a rather odd consensus coming from members of the Australian Labor Party who are supposed to champion the rights of the working class. We on this side of the House believe that there is no equity, if excise is to be charged on alcoholic liquor, to charge the beer drinker and not charge the wine drinker. We cannot see the logic in that at all. But when we look at the figures - and I would not like to be held to a cent or two because these charges vary from State to State - the beer drinker pays 19c excise on a bottle of beer which costs him about 45c and the wine drinker pays only 8c excise on a bottle of wine. One would have thought that from the self-confessed champions of the working class, the beer drinkers, that at least some mention would have been made of the rights of the beer drinker. But there was not one word of it. All the criticism was simply related to the principle of taxing wine drinkers. 
It is approximately 8c. Then we had the spurious argument, if I could say that with respect, that all of the money that is raised from the excise on petrol should be spent on roads. I suppose before a Senate election, or for any other devious political purpose, it is always opportune for an Opposition to raise this kind of argument. But does the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  who knows that I hold him in great respect, seriously suggest that this principle should be followed to its logical conclusion? Does he suggest, for example, that all the excise we rise on tobacco should be spent for the benefit of cigarette and cigar smokers? Does he seriously suggest that all the excise we raise on whisky should be spent on whisky drinkers? The proposition has only to be stated to be exposed in the absurdity in which it lies. May I refer briefly to the speech of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)?  I thought, because of the position in which he stands and because of the State from which he comes, it was a speech of real courage. The honourable member for Angas knows as well as anybody in this House the problems of the wineries but, more particularly - and I concede this point that has been raised - the problem of the grape growers, and he has been quite vigorous in his representation of those interests. But he put the matter in its proper perspective. He said: 'Let us look at the effects on the wine industry and on the grape grower.' I have given an assurance on behalf of the Government thai it will look at the effects of this new tax as a responsible government should look at all new taxes. 
If I was disappointed with any speech made in this debate I was disappointed with that of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  One would have thought that he has some basic knowledge of the wine industry - but his speech was delivered for political purposes only and did not attempt to get at the basic problems facing the industry. He criticised the Government for the concession it gave to home wine makers. He said that 400 gallons a year was excessive and not consistent with the Government's decision to cut the industry back, whatever that means. Does the honourable member for Riverina want this concession to be abolished? He has written vigorous letters to me and disclosed to the Press personal correspondence from me to him on his advocacy of concessions to home brewers of beer. Does he suggest that we should not give a concession to home wine makers? Does he not know that this concession in itself assists in taking up the grape crop each year? Does he not know that traditionally - and in his electorate of all electorates there are so many migrant families - groups of families band together in co-operative schemes, and 400 gallons a year split among 5, 6 or 7 families is certainly not an excessive concession? 
It seems rather odd that the honourable member for Riverina should be criticising a concession the Government has given to hundreds of his own constituents. I would hope that this aspect of the speech of the honourable member for Riverina is brought home to his constituents. Does he not know - we have been at pains to explain it - that this concession has had severe conditions placed upon it? If anybody who has that concession breaks the conditions once - in other words, sells one bottle commercially of the wine that he makes - then that concession is cancelled not only for that year but forever. So we do propose to police this concession- 
No, he cannot. He cannot enter into any commercial transaction. The honourable member for Riverina also tried to appeal to the emotive sentiments - rather cheaply I thought - of his constituents, as opposed to the approach of the honourable member for Angas. The honourable member for Riverina stated categorically that this excise would lead to a fall in demand of 20 per cent. But again he did not produce one shred of evidence to indicate how that 20 per cent fall in demand might come about. I would like to place before the House some interesting figures concerning wine. In the 4 years since February 1966 the retail price of sherry and port, for example, has increased - these figures are based on South Australian bottle prices - from 58c a bottle to 75c a bottle as at July 1970. Claret might be an easier example to quote. In February 1966 the price of a bottle of claret in Adelaide was 50c. Today one cannot buy that bottle of claret for less than 95c or SI. The point I am making is that in 4 years the price of claret has increased 100 per cent. During those 4 years sales of wine have increased by at least 33 per cent. 
The honourable member for Angas has asked whether this is price sensitivity. I hasten to state that 1 am not blaming the grape grower or the wineries for this rapid increase in the price of wine. This increase has occurred because of other elements. But this does not invalidate my argument that the wine industry is a very viable industry. After this kind of price increase and the kind of increase in demand it is rather strange to hear the honourable member for Riverina say that because we are putting a 50c per gallon or 8c a bottle excise on wine, this will suddenly mean a diminution of 20 per cent in demand. I think the spurious nature of his argument is rapidly exposed. 1 ask the wine industry with great respect - not all of the industry fed the honourable member for Riverina with figures which for some reason he swallowed - why did it, immediately after a 50c a gallon excise was announced by the Government, increase the price of wine by 62.5c a gallon. When it was complaining, legitimately as it might, about the 50c excise why did it suddenly add another 12.5c to that excise? lt is the industry's right to take this action, but if it increases the price has it then the right to say that because of the added excise demand will diminish by 20 per cent? Certainly, no comparison can be made between the wine industry and the petrol industry. I would suggest that the petrol industry is not notorious for being kind hearted to the consuming public. The excise proposed in the Budget and which is contained in the Bills before the House will increase the excise on petrol by 3c a gallon and the price of petrol has been increased by exactly that amount whereas the excise on wine has been increased from nothing to 50c and the increase in price made by the industry has increased by 62.5c. Again, I thank those honourable members who made a constructive contribution to this debate. 
Question put - 
That  the  Bill be now read a second time. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the. following proposed work which was referred to. the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Provision of engineering services, district of Dripstone, Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves construction of sealed roads, kerbs and gutters, footpaths, water supply, sewerage and. stormwater drainage, and electricity supply to residential and special sites in the neighbourhood units of Nakara, Wanguri, Brinkin and Tiwi. The estimated cost is $ 10.76m. One component of the proposal is the construction of a bridge across Rapid Creek to serve as a link in the projected arterial road system. The Committee received evidence that damming of the creek at the bridge site had been studied in connection with a proposal to clean out the swamp along Rapid Creek and create a lake/ water feature. If the lake scheme is to proceed, construction of a combined weir and road bridge would be a practical and economic proposition. The Government intends to consider this proposal in depth before proceeding with a firm bridge design but with due regard to the importance of providing a road link at this location in accordance with arterial road and traffic requirements. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of an electricity supply power station, Alice Springs, NX 
The proposal involves construction of a new power station to replace the existing station and to meet, increasing demands for power supplies in Alice Springs. The new station will contain 2 new diesel generating sets, the 2 largest sets from the existing station and 2 spare bays for future sets. Associated works will include engine cooling towers, switchgear and transformers, roadworks, oil supply line and storage, and a crane. The building will be evaporatively cooled and the control room will be fully air-conditioned. The remaining generating equipment in the existing station will continue in operation to supplement output from the new station and will be progressively phased out of operation. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2. 5m. I table plans showing the location and tentative layout of the proposed work. 
in reply  -  I will answer the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  first. I can give an assurance that the Government will examine the effect of the additional bounty early next year and will then consider the further action that is desirable in the light of such an examination. As to the points raised in the latter part of his speech I can also give him a part assurance. To save proliferation of manufacturers or assemblers of tractors in Australia this additional bounty will be paid only to those companies which were registered as manufacturers on 1st July 1970. I expect a company which is located in the electorate of the honourable member is International Harvester Cb. of Australia Pty Ltd. 
The only other comment I have at this stage is to thank the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for paying 2 compliments this evening to the Government. This has been interesting to those honourable members on this side of the House who have heard speculation on the competition between the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Dawson for the role of spokesman on primary industry for the Australian Labor Party. If I may pay an accolade tonight, the honourable member for Dawson won hands down. The honourable member for Dawson did nothing tonight except to pay respect where it was due. He complimented the Government and drew the wise distinction between imposing a tariff on tractors and paying a bounty. A bounty, of course, seeks to keep down the price of tractors to the farmer at the grass roots level, and this is the reason why the Government has applied a bounty as distinct from a tariff. The honourable member saw this point in a' "flash and he paid a compliment to the Government for introducing a bounty instead of a tariff. The other compliment which was paid by the honourable member for Dawson in passing was that the sugar , industry is one qf the most efficient and stabilised in Australia. I accept his compliment that this is a result of the sound Government policies of the LiberalCountry Parties in this Parliament.. 
T will conclude my remarks by referring to some of the comments made by the honourable member for Riverina. I am disturbed to hear him speak because every time he rises to his feet he becomes a man who trades iri gloom and doom. Every speech he makes in this House is characterised by prophecies of doom to our primary industries and those people whom he purports to represent in this House. But tonight he went even further. No longer is he restricted by the boundaries of his own electorate. He prophesied devastating unemployment in the agricultural industries in the cities. I remind the honourable member for Riverina that all industry is sensitive to gestures of confidence or gestures of lack of confidence. Should be persist time and again in this Parliament whenever he is on his feet in saying that there is a crisis in this industry or in that industry - he mentioned the word 'crisis' 7 times tonight - or that there is a down turn, the survival of the countryside is not possible or that the battle of the countryside is lost, he will instil- 
 The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
lt is Commonwealth policy to adopt the applicable local government regulations unless the Commonwealth's requirements in respect of buildings make the application of these impracticable. However, there is a lack of uniformity in the policies and practices of the various local government authorities and also in their applications to specific projects. This means it is not practicable to supply a simple measure of the extent to which the requirements of those authorities are met in respect of car parking facilities for new Commonwealth buildings. Each new project receives individual consideration. 
The Department of Works has not made any contribution to enable local government authorities to provide off-site parking facilities. Enquiries made of the Departments of the Treasury and Interior show that they are not aware of any contribution having been made for this purpose. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. The Bill now before the House introduces legislation to amend the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act 1969. As members of the House will recall, this Act increased the rate of bounty on phosphate fertilisers as from 13th August 1969. In the case of standard superphosphate the bounty rose from $8 per ton to $12 per ton. In accordance with section 5 of the principal Act, the new rates were only payable in respect of unsold stocks held by fertiliser manufacturers immediately prior to that date and production on and from that date. Following announcement of the Government's decision, representations were received requesting that stocks of phosphate fertilisers held by resellers on 13th August 1969 be eligible for payment at the higher rate of bounty. Resellers holding stocks had been compelled in this case by competitive pressures to drop the price to the farmer by the full extent of the bounty increase. As a result they suffered some financial loss. 
The phosphate bounty was specifically intended to reduce the price paid by the user. The Government considers that it is unreasonable for resellers to carry the burden of the increase in the bouty on stocks held at the time the rate was changed. Accordingly, the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act 1969 is being amended to provide for retrospective payment of bounty on unsold stocks held by resellers, who absorbed the increase, at midnight on 12th August 1969. As a result of the changing structure of the industry, it appears that higher levels of stocks are being held by resellers. The Government intends to apply this principle to any future changes in the phosphate fertiliser bounty rates. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
In answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, unhappily there is evidence of school children being peddled drugs of certain descriptions by those creatures who seem to have no conscience about selling anything for money. Fortunately, to this stage, the situation has not reached alarming proportions; but, as I have said before, the trends are such that they cause us deep concern. Security in chemist shops is another matter that is causing us great worry. As the efficiency of the Narcotics Squad of the Department of Customs and Excise, working in co-operation with the State Police drug squads, increases and we manage to clean Sydney out of pot or marihuana, for example, or Melbourne out of marihuana for a period, the increase in the outbreak of robberies or chemist busts, as they are called, is comparable with the increase in the sale of ice cream when there is a rise in temperature. When one looks at the security arrangements that exist in most pharmacies in Australia one has cause to feel concern. In some States, for example, the law provides that all dangerous drugs should be locked safely in a certain place. I have inspected these certain places and find that they are simply cupboards which I, not experienced in safebreaking, could open with a screwdriver in about 10 seconds and there, conveniently exposed for any thief, are all the dangerous drugs ready to be parcelled up and taken away. 
But the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence has asked each State Government to legislate for drugs to be placed in safes which would provide some deterrent to a thief. I understand that New South Wales already has some legislation on this question and that other States are following. It is my hope that they will follow as quickly as possible. As far as penalties are concerned, I have mentioned before in this House the deep concern that I and State Ministers charged wim this responsibility are showing for the lightness of penalties imposed by courts on drug pushers. I am now not speaking of those who are simply users but of drug pushers who are not users. It just goes beyond my comprehension how, when parliaments both State and Federal set a maximum penalty of 10 years for such an offence, a pusher who is convicted with virtually no extenuating circumstances can be released by a court on payment of a $1,000 fine or is sentenced to 2 months imprisonment. I have said before in this House that Parliaments are loath to introduce minimum penalties for any offence hut I must say that my personal view is that unless some more realistic action is taken by the courts on this national problem the temptation will be placed before parliaments to legislate in that way. 
I am sure the honourable member would not expect me to carry in my head the statistics that he sought in the early part of his question. Might I say that a great number of pushers are also in fact users. But I think the honourable gentleman would be making a mistake if he said that these people deserve only sympathy - which they do - but that the community should not be protected from them. I think that a pusher who is not a user is a person without conscience and is wreaking havoc on his fellow man. The user-pusher has an even greater compulsion to sell drugs than the pusher because he must sell them to get money to feed his habit. 
If the honourable gentleman recognises that, I would readily agree with him that treatment is the proper course of action for that person. I doubt whether, to rush in to provide a solution by simply giving killer drugs to people who happen to be addicts would be an act of responsible government 
The honourable member for Oxley suggests that it is being done in the United States of America. I suggest that he might look more carefully at what is being done in the United States. I presume that the honourable member is talking about the administration of methadone. 
A controversy is raging throughout the United States today as to whether that particular treatment is correct. As I understand it, it is treatment that goes on forever; there is no stopping it 
As I understand it, the treatment means  a  lifetime addiction to another kind of synthetic drug. Whether that is the solution to the problem, I do not know. But research is being done on this matter. I think it would be an act of sheer irresponsibility for any government to administer an addictive drug - no matter what it was - to people without first having deep research into it. 
The honourable member asks an interesting question. When talking with them myself, young drug addicts have put to me that stricter control should be placed on the sale of hypodermic needles and that they should be made available only on prescription. However, there are a great number of people in the medical profession who would oppose this. They believe that this stems from an artificial premise, that if you simply prevent a child from getting a hypodermic syringe that child will no longer take drugs. But such is the compulsion of a drug addict to administer a drug intravenously that the problem goes far deeper than simply cutting off the mechanics of administering the drug. 
We have had evidence - I have seen it myself - of children who have an addiction to or a compulsion to take hard drugs - to mainline - and who when they cannot get  a  syringe use  a  most extraordinarily unhygienic and terrible implement to open up their arms and arteries to administer the drug. Whilst I acknowledge that the question has merit, there is by no means unanimity among members of the medical profession as to whether this is the best way to combat the problem. 
Imports which are in the form of 'literature' - I use that word in inverted commas - and which are regarded as obscene can be divided into 2 parts. The first part consists of literature which is obviously hard core pornography, or rubbish as you might call it, and the other part consists of those works which do contain literary merit. Books of literary merit are referred by my Department to the National Literature Board of Review which is a body consisting of 9 people who are distinguished in letters - there is a poet, a publisher and people of that calibre - and who work in a part time capacity. Their recommendations are made to me and on the basis of those recommendations, I decide whether a work should be classified as a prohibited import or not. I understand the honourable gentleman is referring particularly to the first category I mentioned. These are banned at departmental level but only by an extremely senior officer. There are some who believe that customs officers all around the country can grab an importation and ban it. This is not so. There is no officer at State level who has the duty to do that. Everything is referred to the central office in Canberra and then to a senior officer who only after looking at it carefully makes the overt decision to declare it a prohibited import. 
I presume the honourable member is referring to a Press report which appeared I think, on Saturday that on Friday the Narcotics Squad of my Department arrested 6 men in Sydney and that at the same time over 2 million doses of amphetamines were recovered. The question whether one or more of the men are well known Sydney criminals is something which, I believe, it would be improper for me to comment on at this stage. I do not confirm nor- do I deny the allegation implicit in the question, but it is true that all 6 men appeared in a Sydney Court on Saturday morning and notwithstanding the alleged possession of $400,000 worth of amphetamines one man was granted bail of $300; two were granted bail of $500; one obtained bail at $1,200 and two at, I believe, $2,000. All I can say at this stage is that I am genuinely grateful for the honourable member's interest. The second thing I want to say is that the granting of this bail is completely beyond my comprehension. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works. Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of sleeping, messing and amenities facilities for Chiefs and Petty Officers at HMAS Cerberus', Westernport, Victoria.' 
The major components of 'the proposal are a central galley amenities and mess block, and 3 identical 3-storey sleeping blocks each of 100 cabins. The building will be of brick and concrete construction. Facilities and services will include hot water heating systems, laundries, built-in furniture in cabins, bars, games, television and ante rooms, etc., and change facilities for living out members. Accommodation and facilities are in accordance with approved defence scales and standards of accommodation. The estimated cost is SI. 9m. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee asked that further consideration be given to the provision of adequate shower facilities for senior sailors who live out; and use of carpet as a floor covering in sleeping blocks if economically feasible. The design of the galley mess and recreation block is sufficiently flexible to allow some increase in the number of showers to be provided if required. Before detailed design development is finalised the Departments of Works and the Navy will review the basis on which the number of showers was assessed to determine more precisely if the present allowance is sufficient in relation to the number of members who live out and the nature of their duties. The use of carpet as floor covering in sleeping blocks is not an approved standard for services accommodation. However its use is at present being considered by the Defence Accommodation Standards Committee and the final choice of material will be deferred pending the Committee's report and recommendations. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Vinyl acetate; cellulose acetate flake - an interim report under the review inquiry on industrial chemicals; 
Gauze, cloth, grill, etc., of copper or copper alloy wire. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
1 thank my friend the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  for yielding to me the last li minutes of this debate. All I can say as the Minister in this chamber representing the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  is that the several submissions which have been made by honourable members on the estimates for the Department of Works will be brought to the Minister's notice. 
The only other thing I want to do as the Minister representing the Minister for Works, who has the privilege of tabling the reports of the Public Works Committee in this House, is, on my behalf and on behalf of my colleague in the Senate, the Minister for Works, to pay a tribute to the Public Works Committee of this Parliament. I refer to the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and to Senators Branson, Dittmer and Prowse and to the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  who are members of the Committee. 
There is no harder working committee appointed by this Parliament than the Public Works Committee. The way in which the members of the Committee go about their research and the industry and enthusiasm they show is, I am sure, a model for all of us. Not only that, but as the Minister who introduces into this House proposals coming from the Committee, I commend the Committee for the way in which it submerges party politics and devotes its work to the good of the causes for which it stands. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  read a third time. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 20 (1970). 

 Mr Speaker, the Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled propose amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. They implement the Government's acceptance of recommendations by the Tariff Board on the following reports: 
Vinyl acetate and cellulose acetate flake - an interim report under the review inquiry on industrial chemicals; and 
Gauze, cloth, grill, etc., of copper or copper alloy wire. 
As is my custom, 1 have arranged for a copy of this speech to be distributed to honourable members so they can read it with me. A summary of the tariff changes and a glossary of technical terms are also being distributed. 
The Tariff Board recommends duties of 50 per cent general tariff and 40 per cent preferential tariff for vinyl acetate. These duties, which represent a reduction of 10 per cent under both the general and the preferential tariff, will come into effect on 1st December 1970. On cellulose acetate flake the Board recommends that the existing duties of 5 per cent general tariff, free preferential tariff, remain unchanged. In addition the Board recommends the rate of bounty payment on the production and sale of cellulose acetate flake for use in the manufacture of cellulose acetate rayon yarn be varied from 5c perlb to 4c per lb, with a maximum payment of $200,000 in any one year. The new rate of bounty will operate from 1st December 1970 to 31st December 1973. A Bill to amend the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1956-1970 will be introduced in due course to give effect to the Government's decision. 
I turn now to the report on gauze, cloth, grill, etc., of copper or copper alloy wire. The Tariff Board recommends duties of 25 per cent general tariff and 15 per cent preferential tariff, except for woven wire having a construction finer than 120 mesh which is to be free of duty from all sources. These rates represent no change on woven wire finer than 120 mesh but an increase in duty of 17½ per cent general tariff and 15 per cent preferential tariff on woven wire for paper-making machines. On other gauze, cloth and grill of copper or copper alloy wire there is a reduction in tariff protection of up to 35 per cent general tariff and 12½ per cent preferential tariff. 
The Proposals also allow for accelerated duty phase-out on certain products imported from New Zealand as agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. These products, previously included in Schedule A to the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement will now be admitted free of duty from New Zealand. Also included are adjustments of duty rates on synthetic manufacturing perfumes and on waxy crudes for use as feedstock in the petroleum industry. This restores the basic position in relation to these goods at 30th June 1965. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr  3.  F. Cairns) adjourned. 
-I would have thought courtesy would have demanded that. 
The Opposition believes that this is not good enough. We do not want any hopes or wishes; we want a definite undertaking and a definite assurance by this Government that before this Parliament gets up, whether it be the end of next week or the following week, the wool legislation to deal with this national disaster - which is what the  Deputy  Prime Minister says it is and we believe it is - will be considered by this House and the Senate and dealt with. We are not going to agree to any half baked type of Government proposal that the Parliament will get up next week and we might at some future date come back. Before this House gets up the wool legislation, which deals with a problem that in the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister is a national disaster, should be introduced and dealt with in the House of Representatives, sent to the Senate, and dealt with in the Senate. I do not think it is too much to ask that this be done. When the Prime Minister was subsequently questioned by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  again to the embarrassment. I would say, of this Parliament there was still no definite assurance that this would take place. The Prime Minister said: 
The preparation and introduction of this legislation falls entirely within the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry who, 1 am sure, is doing his best to see that the rural community gets the benefits which are proposed in this legislation. All 1 can say in reply to the honourable member who asked the question is that I will take the question under consideration. 
Here we have on our books a national disaster in an $800m export industry which provides 20 per cent or more of Australia's export income. Yet this is the type of innocuous answer we are getting. We cannot get a definite assurance. In fairness to the Government, I would say that I have been advised that there is a possibility of some temporary draft Bill being completed this weekend, a copy of which will be air expressed to me in north Queensland. This might occur but there is no guarantee it will. I would assume this legislation would have to be considered some time next week and the hope of the Government would be to get it through this House, through the Senate and back again if there are any amendments. 
 I can assure the Minister for Primary Industry and the House that the Opposition will do everything possible to facilitate this legislation through the Parliament. There is no question about that. This does not mean that we will not move amendments but as far as accelerating this legislation through the Parliament is concerned I can give an assurance that we will do it. What we want however, is an unqualified assurance that before this Parliament gets up, whether it be next week, the week after or whenever it is, the wool legislation will be cleaned up in the Parliament. It is completely unsatisfactory for the Parliament to get up at the end of next week without this matter being finalised. After all. the Australian Wool Industry' Conference recommendation which was made in April has beer, considered by the Australian Wool Advisory Committee. It has been considered by the Australian Wool Board and it has been considered by the Government. It has been back to the Australian Wool Industry Conference and been returned to the Government and we have had a Press statement from the Minister for Primary Industry. All I ask the Minister to do is to give us an assurance that before this Parliament gets up the wool legislation will have been introduced and dealt with in both Houses. 
I move: 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I present the following report by the Tariff Board: 
Nitrogenous Fertilisers, an interim report under the review inquiry on Industrial Chemicals, and Nitrogenous Fertilisers (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, this Bill provides for the validation until 30th April 1971 of customs duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff proposals moved in this House since 22nd May last and forming part of orders of the day - Government Business. To avoid encroaching on the indulgence of the House in reciting a description of each of the 10 tariff proposals involved, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate these descriptions in Hansard. 

<graphic href="070131197010276_47_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070131197010276_48_1.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will appreciate that legislation to enact the tariff proposals could not be properly debated before the House goes into recess and hence a validation Bill to continue the collection of the new duties is necessary. I would hope that it will be possible for the Bill to enact these and other changes made while the Parliament is in recess to be introduced early in the next session. This should enable honourable members to debate Australia's tariff policy at length as well as the particular Tariff Board reports on which the tariff amendments are based. I commend the Bill.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I understand that the House is prepared to allow debate on this measure to proceed forthwith. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the cost of importing into Australia (a) films for public exhibition, (b) television film material, (c) books and other publications and (d) records, in each of the last five years, it not available. 
However, he has supplied the following tables: 
Value of imports of (a) cinematograph film exposed and developed, (b) books and other publications and (c) records, for each of the years 1965-66 to 1969-70. 
Payments overseas for cinema and television films imported on a rental basis, for each of the years 1965-66 to 1969-70. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At a conference in Sydney on 18 September State Ministers responsible for matters of censorship met under the chairmanship of the Minister for Customs and Excise. 
The State Ministers attending were: 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Commonwealth Offices, Stage 1, Hobart. 
The proposal involves construction of a J5-storey office building on a site bounded by Collins and Harrington Streets to provide some 152,000 square feet of office space as the first stage of an office complex ultimately to accommodate some 4,500 officers of the various Commonwealth departments located in Hobart. The estimated cost is $4.6m. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee concluded that expenditure on a work of art should be limited to $3,000. The form of this provision has not yet been decided. The Committee also concluded that, if economically possible, carpet should be used as a floor covering in office areas. The present arrangement is that in accordance with normal practice, vinyl tiles will be used but in view of current considerations of whether carpet should be used in all major Commonwealth office buildings, the final choice of floor covering for this proposal will be deferred for as long as possible. 
The matter of providing car parking facilities at Commonwealth buildings is being examined separately with the view to determining guidelines for the future. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Development of Avalon Airport to Boeing 747/Concorde standard. 
The work includes strengthening of the existing runway and part of the existing taxiway, extension of the runway to 10,000 feet, and construction of a parallel taxiway and parking apron. The estimated cost of the work is $6.4m. In reporting on the proposal the Committee concluded that there is a need for the immediate provision of the facilities. As regards future planning for commercial jet pilot training facilities and present operational arrangements at Avalon the Government will give consideration to the Committee's observations and recommendations. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, immediate steps can be taken to proceed with the works in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
All imported films and books are liable to examination for censorship purposes before clearance from Customs control. 
Lists of prohibited books and films are available in the Parliamentary Library for scrutiny by honourable members. 
The publications list includes those prohibited over the last 10 years. 
In the case of films the Parliamentary Library list cover rejections for the period 1st July 1967 onwards. The titles rejected for the balance of the period in question, namely 1st January 1960 to 30th June 1967 are as follows: 
1 move: 
That in accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Const ruction of a primary school at Wagaman, Northern Territory. 
The school is planned to accommodate 360 primary and 200 infant pupils in a single.storey air-conditioned complex. Amenities and facilities will include covered open assembly areas, tuck shop and kitchen, library, general purpose room for group activities, oval and basketball courts. 
The school is the first in the Northern Territory to be designed on the modern open plan' concept for flexibility in instruction and adoption of. modern developments in co-operative and team teaching. The estimated cost is $875,000. 
A sum of $5,000 is allowed in the estimate for acquisition of a work of art as a design feature but in reporting on this aspect of the proposal, the Committee concluded that expenditure should be on the same scale as for a Canberra primary school, that is, up to about $1,500. The form of this provision has not yet been decided. 
Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to the Parliament-. 
Development of the Port of Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposed work includes construction of a general cargo wharf and facilities at Fort Hill West, a cargo handling shed on Kitchener Drive, a dredged basin and facilities for small ships in Frances Bay, a bulk cargo jetty head causeway and ore handling plant at Quarantine Island, East Arm and associated road and rail works. The estimated cost is $ 19.03m. The Committee has reported favourably on the works comprising this proposal. 
In respect of the Committee's conclusions concerning construction of a  new  quarantine station, the allocation of a suit  able  site to enable the construction of a new station to start at an early  date  is  under  consideration. 
The Committee's comments and recommendations regarding dredging for the LASH (lighter-aboard ship) facility have been noted and will be investigated with a view to reaching a decision in time to permit if necessary the additional dredging being undertaken concurrently with other proposed dredging work in Frances Bay. 
Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was  referred  to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Point Peron/Garden Island Causeway, naval support facility. Cockburn Sound, Western Australia. 
The proposed work involves construction of a causeway some 13.500 feet long linking Garden Island to the mainland at Point Peron as a preliminary to the establishment of shore based facilities on Garden Island. The work includes construction of a 2,100- foot southern approach rockfill mole, a 1,000-foot low level trestle bridge, a 6,200- foot central section of armoured rockfill mole, a boat channel 100 feet wide dredged to 12 feet below low water ordinary spring tide, a 2,020-foot high level bridge and a 2,400-foot northern approach rockfill mole. 
A 24-foot roadway, a 5-foot footway, water, power and communication services and road lighting arc to be provided on the causeway. The estimated cost is S9m. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 As the honourable member ought to know, I am bound by an Act and regulations of this Parliament in the administration of the censorship provisions of this country. Regulation 4A of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations specifically states that- the Minister for Customs and Excise is bound to prohibit as an import that which is obscene, that which is indecent, and so on. I have said before, and frankly admitted, that I find it extremely difficult and undesirable for a Minister to impact his subjective standards on 12 million people. Therefore we consider a community standards test as well as an obscenity test when looking at a particular item. I come back to what the regulation provides. We now have one court in the nation - in Victoria - which has pronounced unequivocally this novel to be obscene. We have another court in Western Australia which also has pronounced unequivocally this publication to be obscene. However, because of the peculiarities, if I can use that term, of the Indecent Publications Act of Western Australia which precludes the application of that legislation against works of literary merit, the court was bound to dismiss the prosecution. I put it as simply as that. I cannot see at this time how a Minister for Customs and Excise can allow a prohibited import into a country in which 2 courts have already declared the proposed import to be obscene. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
The Bill now before the House provides for the payment of a bounty at the rate of 4c per lb with a maximum payment in any one year of $200,000 on cellulose acetate flake produced at registered premises and sold for use in the manufacture of cellulose acetate rayon yarn on and after 1 st December 1 970. The present Bill amends the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1956-1970, the operation of which was terminated by proclamation on 30th November 1970 and extends bounty payment at the new rates until 31st December 1973. This Bill and the termination of the operation of the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1956-1970 follow the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board Report on Vinyl Acetate: Cellulose Acetate Flake (Interim Report): Industrial Chemicals and Synthetic Resins - Review) of 30th June 1970 in which the Board recommended the rate of bounty and maximum annual payment prescribed in this Bill. Notice of the Government's intention to introduce this amending legislation was given in my speech to the House on 22nd October 1970 when introducing Customs Tariff Proposals relatedto these and other goods.I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969. the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Yirara Residential College for Aboriginal students at Alice Springs, Northern  Territory 
The -proposed work is the provision of living accommodation, teaching Facilities, recreation facilities and associated amenities and' services to accommodate 300 male and female students preparing for a secondary education or undertaking postprimary courses. The college will be located approximately  4*-  miles south of the AliceSprings town centre. The estimated cost of' the proposed work is S2.9m. I table plans of the proposed works. . . 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the reports by the Tariff Board on the following subjects: 
Agricultural, Horticultural, etc., Machinery. Cherries. 
Pyjama Girdles and Girdling (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
Pursuant to statute I present also the following: 
Special Advisory Authority reports on: 
Acetone Derivatives. 
Bakers' Yeast. 
Industrial Radiographic Equipment. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I am pleased to answer the question insofar as part of my ministerial responsibility is the prevention of entry into this country of narcotic drugs and drugs proscribed by the Single Convention of the United Nations, in which marihuana is named. I must say that to the statement reported in almost the same language in at least five of this morning's newspapers and attributed to the honourable member for Maribyrnong my first reaction was sadness or sorrow, because I had felt that a gentleman who had won a seat in this House and has been renowned for some liberal thinking, a man for whom I have a personal affection, would not be capable of making such a silly and stupid statement. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I was about to lead on to where that state ment does impinge on my ministerial responsibility. My first reaction was sadness. My second reaction was dismay because there is no question that if the honourable gentleman did say what he is reported to have said hundreds of thousands of young Australian children will be influenced to the view that marihuana is harmless, because the honourable gentleman says so. But he went further and said that it should be legalised and should be consumed by school children because they would feel relaxed, happy, convivial, and that perhaps it would improve human relations. I can envisage that the statement by itself will incite young Australian children to have a go at marihuana at a time when the Government is spending $500,000 on a national education campaign to try to dissuade young children from taking marihuana. 
I wonder what evidence or authority the honourable gentleman nas for his views, other than his own medical degree, that he should see fit to make this statement. As I understand the position, he said that he was speaking not only as a politician but also as a doctor. That in itself would lend greater credence to his statement about marihuana in the minds of the young, although we know virtually nothing about the drug. I am not prepared to bring party politics into this matter. 
Opposition members - Obi 
If members of the Opposition want to do so, let me tell them that a great number of their colleagues have quietly confided to me that they violently disagree with the views expressed by the honourable member for Maribyrnong and the honourable member for Oxley. I believe that this is far too serious a national problem to be debased by the introduction of party politics. I do not know what the honourable member's qualifications are. I conclude my answer by reading from a report made as late as 1969 by an expert committee of the World Health Organisation that was set up specifically to examine the question of marihuana. It said unequivocally and unanimously: 
This Committee strongly reaffirms the opinions expressed in previous reports that cannabis is a drug of dependence, producing public health and social problems, and that its control must be continued. 
If the honourable gentleman wants to advise young people to opt out of reality and choose the false and distorted hallucinogenic world, that is not the wish of the Government. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 1 (1971) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 2 (1971) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 3 (1971) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 4 (1971) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 5 (1971) 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to 5 (1971) formally place before Parliament the tariff changes made while the Parliament was in recess and published by Notice in Gazettes of 9th November and 20th November 1970, 22nd December and 30th December 1970 and 18 January 1971. The changes arise from the Government's adoption of a Tariff Board report on agricultural and horticultural machinery and special advisory authority reports on certain industrial radiographic equipment and acetone derivatives. Other changes extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. 
Copies of Press statements by the Minister for Trade and Industry were sent to honourable members at the time the tariff changes were gazetted setting out the nature of the changes. There are also several tariff changes of a purely administrative nature. A detailed summary of the changes and rates of duty is now being distributed to honourable members. I commendthe Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
I move: 
Customs  Tariff  Proposals No. 6 (1971). 
I table Customs Tariff Proposals No. 6 (1971) which operates from tomorrow. This proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970 which are necessary to bring into effect the Government's acceptance of a Tariff Board report on cherries. The Tariff Board recommended no change in duties for fresh cherries and removal of duties on drained, glace, crystallised and brined cherries. The Board concluded that production of drained, glace or crystallised cherries was not economic and that continued protection could not be justified. On cherries in brine, the Board considered that local fruit could be brined and sold at prices competitive with imports. Accordingly proposal No. 6 proposes the removal the present duties of 42½c per gallon General Tariff and 22½c per gallon Preferential Tariff on brined cherries and  47½  per cent General Tariff and 22½ per cent Preferential Tariff on drained cherries. It is also proposedto remove the present temporary duty on drained cherries. 
The Government has accepted the Tariff Board's report in the light of the Board's view that there are alternative new markets for local brined cherries and that there seems to be a reasonable possibility that the brining of cherries in Australia can continueto be a successful operation. A close watch will be maintained on the marketing situation during 1971 and the question of the protection of the cherry industry would be reconsidered, as a matter of urgency, if alternative markets for brined cherries cannot be found. A detailed summary of the changes and rates of duty is now being distributed to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Motion (by  Mr Hayden)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
-I will not detain the House for long. May I take this opportunity, in addition to commenting on some aspects of the debate, to bring the House up to date on the methods we have taken and which I outlined in the statement I made to the House in June of last year. Firstly, I would like to say how personally gratified I am that a debate on censorship has taken place in this House and that that debate has been of such a high standard. The contributions from all honourable members who have spoken have been thoughtful and sincere, and the fascinating aspect of it has been the divergence of opinion of almost everyone who has spoken. That divergence has not been limited to political parties or to age groups. If a Minister has any right to crave for sympathy, I point out that this highlights the extraordinarily difficult and delicate task that any Minister who is a censor encounters in this issue. 
The fact that the debate on censorship has been a free debate and not on party lines is only part of the story because not only is censorship involved. There are very important social issues which have been debated peripherally while the debate has continued, such as the individual freedoms of persons and the extent to which governments and parliaments should intrude into the homes and lives of people and the extent to which they should keep out. These, as 1 understand it, are the important things that government and parliament are about. Sometimes 1 wonder whether the Parliament is obsessed too much with the tremendous trifles of detailed legislation and whether an overall look philosophically at why we are here and the position of people in relation to the Parliament should be taken more often than it has. 1 should think that the debate, so far as the Parliament is concerned, has been a sorbet in a constant meal containing some heavy and unsavoury dishes. 
One of the interesting things about the speeches has been the divergence of views and how each of them represents a community. There have been some criticisms of the community standards test which my Department and 1 are applying to censorship now. The criticism is valid if it means that I am saying there is only one community standard. This very debate has shown that there is in fact a plurality of community standards, that there are many standards and many communities in the one Australian community. We are trying to move towards catering for each community so as to give the people an opportunity of censoring themselves, and we are not, as the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  said, trying to reduce the whole of censorship to the lowest common denominator. 
May I recapitulate on. the measures that have been introduced since the statement I made in June and make more or less a progress report. As I promised, a periodic review of prohibited works of merit has continued, which has led to a net reduction of 41 in. the number of books on the gazetted list. It means that the gazetted list, which is published and open for public criticism and comment, now contains 72 titles of literary artistic or sociological merit. This review will be . a continuing process. Secondly, we have made concessions for the 1971 film festivals. This is an area that has been in disputation, in previous years. I personally regard the film festivals as an important part of our culture: There is an increasing number of people who see in the cinema an art form, and I believe that people who have that specific., .and. special interest should receive some- consideration. So again, for this year the censorship for film festivals will be virtually' on an R certificate basis. I think 5 film festivals are held in Australia and each guarantees an audience of people 18 years of age and over. Under the agreement that they have with me, a person must as part of his application for membership of a film festival declare that he is 18 years of'.age or over. 
The agreement between the State and Commonwealth Ministers on the introduction of an R certificate was reached at a meeting last September. I regard this as a watershed in Australian censorship history. 1 understand that  3  States and the Commonwealth, which has power to .legislate in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, are already .preparing legislation and that the other .States are preparing submissions for their Cabinets. Officers of my Department are assisting the State authorities in the preparation of ihe R certificate legislation, or they are offering to assist, if 1 could put it that way, because although we would regard uniformity ns not essential we would regard it as being desirable, and we are anxious to assist the States with forms of words if' they are required. It is my fond hope that by the middle of this year the R certificate system will be in. operation throughout' Australia despite the vigorous and spirited opposition that is being conducted by people in certain quarters. ,. ,, 
May I emphasise the two reasons why I am personally enamoured of and so enthusiastic about the R certificate system. The first one and the important one that seems to be overlooked in many areas is that it is in. one way an increase in censorship. It will prevent by law 'children under the age of 18 from seeing material which in my view they should not see - material which the Film Censorship Board spends great lengths of time viewing and discussing from the point of view of its possible effects on impressionable children. The Commonwealth Film Censorship Board may put a suitable for adults only' label on a film, but the theatres, the police and the States are powerless to make that restriction operate legally at the moment. This means that after the Board has gone to all this trouble and the experts have said that this should not be seen by children of. say. 12 and 13 years of age. hundreds of thousands of young Australian children are seeing adults only films - material which has been classed by experts as being totally unsuitable for children. I am sorry to say that a few, not many, exhibitors are wilfully and overtly wooing the young child to see material that has been classified as suitable for adults only. The few who do that - I emphasise that it is a few - compound their evil by the spurious excuse that they are trying to keep children, out by charging adult prices for children to see 'suitable for adults only' movies. 
The second aim of the R certificate system is that adults should be allowed to sec films dealing with mature themes and treating subjects in a mature manner. There are many aspects of problems on the periphery of society today which interest people in the community, and I see no reason- why people who want to see this sort of material should be prevented from seeing it. But I emphasise that it does not mean that films will necessarily be uncut. There will still bc a community standards test applied to R certificate material, as was demonstrated at last year's film festivals, when my Board asked the managers of the festivals to cut certain scenes out of two films, 'Like Night an-d Day' and 'A Married Couple'. I will continue to adopt a hard line on pornography or similarly offensive material. This will not be allowed to be exhibited under the protection of an R certificate. I give the House that assurance. 
The Film Censorship Regulations have been amended to replace the single appeals censor with 5 people whose names have been published. This will permit  deputy  censors to deal with innocuous material such as 'Mary Poppins', if I can describe that as innocuous, rather than wasting the time of senior members of the Film Censorship Board on that sort of material which really needs no censoring at all, and it will leave the Film Censorship Board more time to deal with controversial films of merit. The 'Film Censorship Bulletin' has been, issued monthly since last June giving full details of film classifications, cuts and rejections, and the results of appeals. Therefore, that information is no longer secret. I believe quite strongly that we as a Government have a right to tell people what we cut from films; otherwise it could well be that we would be partners, in an unconscious way of course, in misrepresenting a product. 
I wish to announce a new move on which I have recently decided lo bring censorship decisions before the public. It is not an important one. However, as you know,  Mr Speaker,  (here is a great number of trashy magazines with no literary, sociological or artistic merit which arc banned departmentally. There is a quantity - at the present time there are about 4,000  -  of this trashy garbage, if I could flatter it by calling it that. The preparation of the full list of current prohibitions could take some time especially in view of the present economies in the Public Service, but initially a monthly list will be published giving details of prohibitions of the previous mon'.h. From next April we will be issuing a list each month of the prohibitions at departmental level. The April list will cover prohibitions made between now and 1st April. I do not believe this is earth shaking but it shows our bona fides in ensuring that whatever we do in censorship we will expose to public scrutiny and criticism. I will announce later when the complete list will be available because it will take some time. There will be one exception, and I think honourable members will agree with this: We will not be listing the hard core pornography which we ban. Most of it has no title; it certainly does not need a title. I can see no great purpose in listing such publications; as honourable members know, samples of that sort of material are available for their perusal. 
In conclusion, 1 undertake to the House that my Department, the National Literature Board of Review and the Commonwealth Film .Censorship Board will be making a continuous review of censorship and will adapt community standards to their tests, whichever way community standards move. The administration of censorship in my view should be open. It should bc limited in accordance with community standards and should take into account all artistic, sociological and literary merit of books and films. It should take into account limited audience and readership. As we know, for some publications there will be a limited audience. I refer here to books such as the Miller books and The Other Victorians', which would in any event have a limited audience because they are certainly not everybody's cup of tea. Another criterion would be the limited availability of some works. Here we would exercise the special release powers which are vested in me under the Customs Act and Regulations to release material to people particularly interested in certain subjects. 
That is all I have to say, except that I wish to give an example of material covered by some of my last remarks. I am being criticised rather extensively for the prohibition of 'Playboy'. This comes under the heading of taking account of the limited availability of some works. Only 2 issues of 'Playboy' have been banned since the beginning of 1969 and I would regard the standards of this magazine as a bench mark beyond which we will not go in permissiveness as far as sex is concerned. 'Playboy' is a high quality magazine containing excellent articles on political and sociological subjects. Two issues have been banned so far and future issues will be banned if - and only if - they include articles which incite drug-taking, provided the current standard is maintained. I repeat unashamedly: Any publication which gives a one-sided view calculated to incite Australian people to take drugs will be prohibited. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I will not detain the House for more than a minute or two. I want to comment on the speech made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
-Yes, it was. I thank the honourable member for the courtesy he paid me of informing me that he was going to raise this matter. I would like to say in this House that there was not one thing which the honourable member said about the dangers of alcohol and cigarettes with which I disagreed. I commend him for saying it. Alcohol, as I have said - and I feel 1 am a lone voice around the nation lately - is the third largest killer today in the United Kingdom. This fact is obtained from their official statistics. The World Health Organisation rates alcohol as the fourth largest medical problem in the world. Therefore, the honourable gentleman will get no quarrel from me about the dangers of the abuse of alcohol. I also agree with his statistics concerning cigarettes. I share the honourable member's view about the danger of cigarette smoking as far as young people are concerned. I am sure that every member on this side of the House shares this view. I would not want the excellent remarks of the honourable member to go by default tonight as far as the Government is concerned. 
The honourable member for Lalor asked when could we announce some action on it? I would have thought that instead of making rather inane interjections such as that the honourable member might get up sometime and put a concrete proposal as to what can be done about this problem. 
We have heard about taxes. The honourable gentleman with his knowledge and study of economics should know very well that no matter how much we add taxes or excise to this kind of product, where people have a physiological and psychological compulsion price does not matter a damn. 
From memory a bottle of beer at the moment costs about 42c and 28c of that goes in excise duty. 1 suppose we could double the amount of excise but 1 am not naive enough to believe that it would have much effect on the consumption of alcohol. 
Does the honourable gentleman believe that people who have that compulsion - and I presume that he is talking about those who are abusing those 2 drugs - will not buy the drugs because of an increase in excise? I do not believe it will, because it does not deter a compulsion. 
The other matter I want to discuss is a prohibition on advertising. I have an open mind on this. However, I was impressed the other day by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  who said that prohibition on advertising had been implemented in certain places in the United States of America and that this did not make one iota of difference to the consumption of cigarettes. I think we have to look at the facts. It is all very well to stand up in this place and make nice-looking and nice-sounding speeches about why we do not do something or why we do not ban advertising. But it is being Don Quixote to do something when it is a completely useless act. I am sure that the honourable member for Dawson would agree with that. I know that all honourable members on this side of the House and the Government would welcome a bi-partisan approach on the 2 evils of cigarette smoking and alcohol from the Opposition at any time. 
I would now like to refer to the prohibition of drugs themselves. I know that the honourable member for Dawson did not advocate the prohibition of alcohol or cigarettes. But once a drug has become part of the social fabric of a society - and alcohol undoubtedly is now in our society whether the honourable member likes it or not or whether I like it or not - we cannot overcome that evil by prohibition. The Americans tried prohibition, as the honourable gentleman knows, in the 1920s. That has been described as the greatest tragic social experiment of our time. All that prohibition brought, as I understand it, was an increase in gangsterism, prostitution, vice and corruption and the consumption of alcohol did not go down one bit. Surely prohibition is not the answer. There is one other aspect of advertising, and this would appeal to the political philosophy of the honourable gentleman. I would like to take one example. I want to make it perfectly clear that the reason T will give now is not a conclusive or persuasive reason itself. It is one of several reasons. In Melbourne, we are fortunate to have competition now in the brewery business. Relatively recently, another brewery was established to compete with the monopoly, Carlton and United Breweries Ltd. The name of the new brewery is Courage Breweries Ltd. If all advertising of alcohol was forbidden, Courage Breweries would be sent to the wall tomorrow. Any free competition would be eradicated completely and the original monopoly situation would be preserved. That is an economic reason. I do not put it as a conclusive reason, but it is one reason of which we must speak. If the honourable member is true to his political philosophy - and I am sure that he is - that consequence would not worry him at all because he would agree readily to the nationalisation or socialisation not only of the liquor industry but also in fact of all industry. So, that consequence would not worry him. But it does worry those of us who do encourage free competition by private enterprise. 
Let me return to another point on which the honourable member was critical of us. He asked why we did not direct our atten tion to those 2 evils, cigarettes and alcohol, and not worry about drugs which, at this time, are not a big problem in Australia. 
Not so much. The honourable gentleman was fair enough, kind enough and courageous enough to say in answer to an interjection from me that he did agree that these things were evil. It is very hard to measure drug abuse. In Victoria we have about 58,000 alcoholics, and the staggering figure of 250,000 alcoholics in Australia, which is a figure that should startle anyone. It is harder to measure drug abuse. A very interesting measuring stick in. regard to the consumption of marihuana came to light almost by' accident in the United States of America, The measuring stick was found in the increasing sale of cigarette papers. Presuming that the number of cigarette smokers who roll their own cigarettes remains,-, relatively constant - in fact it does not;- .it goes down - &lt; one could assume that the. sale of cigarette papers would remain on the :same level. In 1969 in the United States 61 million packets .of cigarette papers: were sold. One year later, 214 million packets of cigarette papers were sold. This . represents an increase in consumption in .1 year of 400 per cent. The mind of any business man would boggle if he saw that sort of figure on his sales graph. 
I am terrified that marihuana is becoming as much a part of, the fabric of the society in the United. States, as. alcohol is there and is here and as much a part of the fabric of the society as, cigarette smoking is there and is here. J would imagine that at the stage when, it becomes part of the fabric of the society, we must lie down, enjoy it, and perhaps,., legalise it. But happily we are not in that:. stale in Australia yet. As far as I atn. concerned, as far as the Government is concerned, and 1 am sure as far as the honourable.. member for Dawson is concerned, we do not., want that to happen in Australia.. We,, do not want marihuana smoking to become part of the fabric of the society here. We do not want 90 per cent of our school children smoking it and opting for the hallucinogenic and distorted world to which I referred yesterday. 
Therefore, as a government, we believe that no social problem is ever solved by sweeping it under the carpet. An abundance of evidence is available to indicate that demand is growing and that the supply lines are increasing. As a customs enforcement agency, my Department cannot stop it all. We can stop 10 per cent to 15 per cent if we are lucky. This is because of the ingenuity of the smuggler, the length of our coastline and so on. So it remains that something else has to be done. Surely a national education campaign against the evils of taking marihuana and other narcotic drugs must be the logical conclusion. 
I thoroughly agree with the honourable gentleman when he says that certain types of sensational publicity and certain wrong types of television films can be counter productive and can induce people to do this sort of thing.  As  a result of my concern about that,  I,  in company with my colleague the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  have appointed a very distinguished Australian  Sir William  Kilpatrick toact as  chairman  of the national education sub-committee on drugs.  Sir William  is drawing to him top businessmen and health experts from the States to make sure that the $500,000 that the Government has hypothecated towards this cause will be spent not only well but also wisely and will be used not in a counter productive way as the honourable gentleman fears. 
This is truly a question without notice. I have been asked for an opinion. My answer is that I was not disgusted with any of the speeches made by members of the Australian Labor Party. I said on my feet that I thought the standard of debate on the censorship statement did credit to the Parliament. One of the things I said was that I was very pleased that it was one debate on philosophy which transcended party politics, and I have no reason to move away from that statement. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Customs Act 1901-1968 to bring certain provisions which relate to payment of customs duties, and the granting of refunds of duty, into line with present day commercial practices and procedures. Section 137 of the Customs Act of 1901 originally provided that payment of any duty was to be in British currency. By amendment of the Customs Act in 1947 the words 'British currency' were replaced by the words Australian currency'. 
For many years it has been the practice to accept bank and other 'guaranteed' cheques in payment of customs duty and also, in certain instances where hardship would otherwise result, to accept foreign currencies which are known to be stable and to present no repatriation difficulties. The Auditor-General has pointed out that these practices do not have the sanction of the Customs Act in view of the specific provisions of section 137. lt is therefore proposed to repeal section 137 and thus remove the legal impediment to the present administrative practice. Whenever necessary, collectors will have resort to other provisions, such as the Currency Act 1965-1969, to require that payment be made in currency which is legal tender in Australia. Authority for the granting of refunds, rebates or remissions of duty in prescribed circumstances and subject to prescribed conditions and requirements is contained in existing sections 163, 164 and 164a of the Customs Act. 
The progressive introduction of 'commodity control' procedures by the Department of Customs and Excise has brought considerable benefits both to industry and the Department. Briefly, this concept relies on company documentation reinforced by selective and random physical checks, and applies procedures which are tailor-made for particular industries or classes of goods. The inflexibility of the present provisions of section 163 of the Customs Act does not allow the operation of 'commodity control' principles in the area of refunds, rebates and remissions of duty or, for that matter, does not allow the prescribing of selective requirements for particular goods or for particular classes of goods. 
For example, the final settlement of duties on certain petroleum products is effected on the basis of a monthly reconciliation of duty liability offset by refunds payable. In its present form, section 163 of the Customs Act does not provide for such a practice. To cater for this and future extensions of the 'commodity control' concept, it is necessary to introduce into the refunds provisions of the Customs Act sufficient flexibility to allow requirements and procedures to be tailor-made to suit particular classes of goods and particular circumstances. 
Accordingly, it is proposed by the Bill now before the House, to amend the Customs Act to provide, as well as a specific authority for the granting of refunds, rebates and remissions of duty, authority also for the prescribing in the Customs Regulations of differing conditions and requirements to apply to different goods or classes of goods. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
in reply - The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has just spoken and accepted my challenge, in answer to a question on 22nd February last, to produce evidence to support his statements at the weekend which I have described as being silly and stupid. I implied that they were dangerous. No doubt the honourable gentleman has had 3 days in which to do his research in this matter, but he did not pay me the courtesy to tell me that he was raising the matter here at this time. 1 was in the House by accident. Therefore, the reply which I now give to him might not be as well considered as one might have expected to be if I had been paid that common courtesy. 
I would not expect the honourable member for Wills to know too much about what I have just said. The honourable member for Maribyrnong quoted extensively from a report to the British Government on cannabis by the Advisory Committee on Drug Dependence. At the outset I am not going to say today that marihuana is definitely harmful. 1 do not say it in public. I am not going to say that it leads to harder or more dangerous drugs. I have never said that. I do not say it. The whole point that I am making is that we do not know. There is so much confusion about the effects of marihuana, so much doubt about its harmfulness and so much conflict in the evidence that only an irresponsible government would legalise it at this stage. The honourable gentleman read several excerpts from this report by the Advisory Committee on Drug Dependence. What he did not read, for some reason, was an extract on page 47 which states: 
Observers with long experience concur in the opinion that continued excessive use of cannabis over a period of years leads to moral and social decay; countries from which such reports come are South Africa, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Syria, Turkey, Astrakhan and India. In a few reports, such conclusions are extended to cover chronic use of the drug in only moderate doses but the majority of observers distinguish between heavy dosage and restrained use; restrained use is widely regarded as harmless in its effects, provided the consumer had, from the outset, a healthy mental constitution. In defining healthy mental constitution, circular reasoning is apt to creep in. 
There in that very paragraph is, to use an Australian expression, a quid each way if ever I saw it. On the one hand it says conclusively that cannabis is harmful in certain circumstances if taken excessively. The report does not say whether smoking 2 cigarettes a day, one a week or two a week is excessive or not and it does not mention the extent to which a person can become dependent. There is also the qualification that a person has to have a healthy mental constitution, whatever, that means. I do not know what it means and I do not think that any member of this Parliament would know. It is so equivocal that there is enormous doubt even in this equivocal report which was presented to the British Government which, I might say, was never implemented. The honourable gentleman failed to mention that fact. 
I have quoted before the Expert Committee of the World Health Organisation which reported in 1969 in unequivocal terms. I read this report to the House the other day and I will not bore it now by reading it again. This Committee, as I said the other day, is not made up of a group of amateurs or a group of do-gooders. It is a group of pharmacologists and scientists taken from many countries. The personnel of that Committee is contained on page 4 of the report. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the names of the personnel of the Expert Committee. 

 Mr H. D. Archibald, Executive Director, Alcohol and Drug Addiction Research Foundation, Toronto, Canada 

 Dr E. A. Babajan, Head of the Department for the Introduction of New Drugs and Medical Technology,  President  of the Psychiatric Council,  President  of the Committee on Narcotics, Ministry of Health of the USSR, Moscow, USSR 

 Dr P. H. Connell, Director, Drug Dependence Clinical Research and Treatment Unit, The Bethlem Royal Hospital and The Maudsley Hospital, London, England 

 Dr N. B. Eddy, Consultant on Narcotics, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., USA  (Chairman) 

 Dr L. Goldberg, 'Professor of Research on Alcohol and Analgesics, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden (Rapporteur) 

 Dr M. Granier Doyeux, Professor of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine of the Central ' University of Venezuela, Caracas, Venezuela (Vice-Chairman) 

 Dr E. Hosoya, Professor of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan 
Representatives nf other organisations: United Nations: 

 Mr V. Kusevic Ph.D., Director, Division of Narcotic Drugs, United Nations, Geneva 

 Mr O. J. Braenden, Ph.D., Chief of Section, Division of Narcotic Drugs, United Nations, Geneva 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong quoted the Indian Hemp Commission's report and the Mayor of New York's Committee report. I have read both of these reports. I have not got the information here because I was not given notice, but I can tell the House that these two are conflicting in their conclusions. The whole case that I have put is that the evidence about marihuana is inconclusive. But there is enough evidence to indicate some concern. I quote from the International Narcotic Report of December 1970 as follows: 

 Dr Lynch, professor at St John's University in Jamaica, Queens, New York said his studies indicated that the use of marihuana could have very serious consequences' for human reproduction. The pharmacology professor said his tests tended to corroborate previous experiments which were conducted in the British West Indies and Augusta, Georgia. He said these produced serious malformations in the fetus after injecting pregnant rats, hamsters and rabbits with concentrated doses of pure marihuana resin. 
The rats in  Dr Lynch's  experiments were placed in a glass-enclosed cage- 
He then goes on to explain the experiment. The report continues: 

 Dr William F. Geber, an associate professor of pharmacology at the Medical College of Georgia, in Augusta, whose experiments with pure marihuana resin have produced serious malformations in animals, cautioned that 'a rat is not a human being and no conclusions can be drawn'. 
That is fair enough. He went on to say: 
. that  Dr Lynch's  studies with which he was familiar, had 'added a definite, important link in establishing the dangerous potential harm of marihuana on the developing fetus.' 
They would indicate it's something less than smart', he added, 'for pregnant women to smoke marihuana'. 
I am not going to say that that is conclusive. I am going to agree entirely that an experiment on a rat, a rabbit or a hamster does not necessarily apply to a human being. But here is palpable evidence that marihuana has caused malformations in foetuses of animals. Now the honourable member for marihuana - he might well finish up with that title in this House - that is, the honourable member for Maribyrnong, is suggesting not only that it be legalised - and that was enough to sting me to a reply - but also that it should be taken by children. He is denying that. With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I will quote from a newspaper. The honourable member has been quoted identically in 5 newspapers, as I said in the House last Monday. I had hoped that he would have paid me the courtesy of listening to my reply. I give him the chance by interjection to deny the authenticity of the newspaper reports. I cannot vouch for their authenticity, but  5  newspapers have quoted him in identical terms. The 'sydney Morning Herald' quotes the honourable member as saying: 
Marijuana makes you relaxed, quiet and convivial ... J think it may even help to improve human relations. Certainly young people using marijuana tend to use less alcohol, which I think is a good thing. I don't see why young people using it should be criticised by cigarettesmoking and alcohol-swilling older people. 
If that is not advocating that young people should smoke marihuana I have never seen such advocacy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 thank the honourable member for his complimentary remarks but the first question which flashes to my mind is: 'Oh death, where is thy kiss?' Memory tells me that in 1965 a Tariff Board report on the commercial vehicle industry which listed the components of commercial vehicles or trucks was considered and accepted by Cabinet and accepted by this Parliament. At the time the Tariff Board said that the commercial vehicle industry should try to obtain its requirements more and more from local sources. As the honourable gentleman would know, the Act gives the Minister for Customs and Excise, or his delegate, power to admit under by-law or duty free those goods for which a suitable equivalent is not reasonably available in Australia. 
Because a great number of parts for trucks have not been made locally, parts from overseas have been admitted duty free. Approaches to my Department have been made over a period by the component manufacturers, who say that they do manufacture these parts now. So I am obliged by the law passed by this Parliament to cancel those by-law concessions which hitherto had allowed parts from other countries to be admitted duty free. The policy of my Department, which has been accepted by the industry, is in certain instances to look at one industry at a time. When looking at the commercial vehicle industry, we considered that it would be unfair to cancel these concessions immediately because it would throw the industry into disarray in the short term. Therefore it was agreed that they should apply for a further period of 12 months. I think the date on which these concessions will be cancelled is 1st October 1971. The industry was advised of this date well in advance to give it a period of time in which to readjust. 
1 think it was on 15th February that the Persian Gulf countries imposed rather massive increases on the prices of overseas crude oil. There was an immediate lift of 33 Australian cents a barrel, plus  2i  per cent, plus 5c as from 1st June next; and then there is to be an increase of  2i  per cent, plus 5c from 1st January each year from 1973 to 1975. This will result in an immediate increase of 3c a barrel , plus, but if it is based on the parity price which this Government negotiated for indigenous crude oil in October 1968, which was $1.89 a barrel, it will mean that by 1975 there will have been an increase of 76c a barrel in the price of overseas crude oil compared with the price that was set for Bass Strait Australian crudes in October 1968 by this Government. I think that vindicates the Government's decision that it was a fair price, taken against the advice of the Opposition at the time. 
The matter is even more interesting when one looks at the import savings for Australia from the supply of crude oil from Australian sources. At present, when we are about 50 per cent sufficient in oil, based on overseas crude oil prices we are saving about $225m a year in our overseas balances. Within a month or two, when it is hoped that the Kingfish well will come on-stream, the savings for Australia in our overseas balances will rise to about S325m a year. I cannot resist making the comment that this is a direct result of the Government's oil exploration policies in which the honourable member who directed the question to me has been interested for 10 years or more. Those policies were bitterly opposed by the Opposition at the time the Government pursued them. 
 My answer to both questions asked by the honourable member is Yes'. The cancellation of by-law will be to the advantage of the component manufacturers, vis-a-vis the costs of commercial vehicles, but only to the extent of the tariffs applicable to component parts of commercial motor vehicles, as laid down by this Parliament. As I stated yesterday in answer to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, I am compelled by the law of this Parliament to cancel by-laws when suitable equivalent goods are reasonably available in Australia. 
The second prong of the honourable members question was whether this matter should go to Cabinet. I firmly believe it should. As I said yesterday, the proposal will not be implemented until 1st October 1971. A submission is presently before Cabinet. I believe it is quite proper for all these matters to go before Cabinet. It is not a matter involving only a pure administration of the law. The implications of this proposal which might have a fundamental effect on other industries should be considered by the Cabinet. In this particular case I believe that the action we have taken is justified notwithstanding that the tariffs applicable are only 5 years old, having, been fixed in 1965. As the honourable gentleman would know, there are many items in the tariff schedule which have been there perhaps since federation. In those cases there is an even more unanswerable case for matters like this to go to Cabinet. 
I did not completely understand the question. I would have thought that that position is covered by the words 'suitable equivalent'. I would have thought that the term explains itself. In answer, to the honourable member 1 therefore say yes. 
All the information contained in the honourable gentleman's question is correct. The Australian Government late last year authorised my Department to proceed with negotiations for Australia to take the initiative in the South East Asian area to convene a regional conference of those countries interested in preventing the illicit trafficking in narcotics and dangerous drugs. Forthwith an officer of my Department toured Asia and found that this proposition of the Australian Government was warmly and most enthusiastically received in all countries which he visited. 
However, there have been practical difficulties in finding a suitable venue and a convenient time for Ministers of those countries to hold a conference, and the consensus of the Asian countries now is that it might be preferable for a ministerial meeting to be preceded by an officers meeting at a central point in Asia within the next few months. Arrangements for that are still proceeding. I might say that already the part of the exercise thathas beenconducted, that is the tour by the officer of South East Asia, has resulted in a great deal more liaison between Australia and the South East Asian countries on operational information and techniques. As the honourable gentleman would know, we have become increasingly concerned at the increased supply of narcotics and dangerous drugs through Asian countries, and those countries share our concern. 1 think I can say that we are delighted, 'by inference from the honourable gentleman's question, that his party supports the Government in Australia's taking the initiative in this further form of regional co-operation. 
I  move:  
That, in accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Aci 1969 the following proposed works be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Northern Territory development . roads - Alice Springs to  Erlunda  section of Stuart Highway and Timber Creek to Dingo Gup section of Victoria Highway. 
The proposal involves pavement reconstruction, realignment and widening, together, with improvements to bridges and culverts and new constructions to increase usability of the roads during wet weather. Road pavements will be bitumen sealed. The estimated costs of the proposed works are as follows: Alice Springs to Erldunda, $3.4m; Timber Creek to Dingo Gap, $2m.  I  table plans of the proposed works. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question is that the Government is in no position to know of the increase in the incidence of drug taking in Australia. However, generally speaking, seizures of narcotics and dangerous drugs by the Department of Customs and Excise have increased twenty-fold in the last 2 years. One of the most worrying aspects is the increase in seizures of the very dangerous drugs such as heroin. The background to the answer to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question is that in 1969 the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence on which all States are represented looked at a decision made in 1968 by the House of Lords. The decision indicated that State police forces would have extreme difficulty in bringing for prosecution any person in their States who was found to have dangerous drugs in his possession under the definition of the meaning of the word 'possession'. Legislation in all States was looked at. It was found that Victoria only had legislation which deemed that, if drugs were found on premises normally occupied by a person, that person could be charged. It was unanimously agreed at that time, on the recommendation of the then Federal Attorney-General, that all States should amend their Acts to bring them into conformity with the Victorian legislation. I might say that an amendment along identical lines was inserted into the Customs Act in 1910. Not being a legal man, I cannot comment .on whether this relates to onus of proof. It simply means that, if a quantity of drugs or poisons is found in a home or on premises normally occupied by a person, that is sufficient evidence to bring that person into court so as to give him an opportunity to testify and produce evidence as to whether he had good cause to be in possession of those drugs. That is the position as I understand it. I understand that all States are in the process of drafting similar legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions on 19th March, 1970.  Mr Wiedenhofer  was convicted on a charge of unlawful possession of prohibited imports, under Section 233 (1) (d) of the Customs Act. The conviction related only to portion of the films and the remaining goods were returned to  Mr Wiedenhofer. 
An appeal against the conviction was upheld in the Supreme Court of the A.C.T. on 23rd June. 1970 on the grounds that the ComptrollerGeneral of Customs was deemed ineligible to institute the prosecution in which  Mr Weidenhofer  was convicted. Costs of the appeal were awarded against the Commonwealth. 
(a) The Commonwealth, through the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor, A.C.T., has made an offer to pay an amount in respect of these costs. This offer was not accepted by  Mr Wiedcnhofer's  legal representatives. The necessary procedure in absence of acceptance is for  Mr Wiedenhofer  to apply to the Taxing Master of the court for taxing of such costs, which costs when taxed will, of course, he paid without delay.  Mr Wiedenhofer's  solicitors have been so advised. (b) Return of the goods in question has been refused. Neither of the courts involved has ruled the seizure to be invalid. I have taken the trouble to personally examine some of these films and, as a result. I consider 1 would be acting irresponsibly as Minister if I did not take every step in my power to maintain the condemnation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Honourable  the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo, largest marsupial in the world, has through shooting for commerce become extinct or rare in many areas of Australia where it was once prolific. 
All scientific evidence points to this decimation of numbers, which is clear evidence that State Governments are unable to control commercial shooting within their boundaries. 
We, the people of Australia, feel strong repugnance to the fact that industries should be allowed to operate, which in the past have decimated the koala to extinction over vast areas of this land, and which have now similarly exploited the kangaroo. We feel that the taxpayer should not have the heavy burden of having to pay for the control of an industry which benefits but a few people in this country, and that live kangaroos through their value as tourist attractions are economically far more profitable to our economy and to us aesthetically. 
We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly insist that State Governments prohibit the commercial shooting of kangaroo;. 
Enact legislation to give the Commonwealth Government control of all native wildlife throughout Australia. and your Petitioners as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During an address at a Melbourne Chamber of Commerce luncheon on 4th August 1970 I recall suggesting that heroin is a killer drug and a person who became addicted to it could be dead in 2 years if he did not receive treatment. 
The cases of actual deaths which are either directly or indirectly attributable to heroin dependence are reported with some frequency in the overseas Press and elsewhere. These reports have convinced me that heroin addiction must greatly reduce its victims' life expectancy. 
I understand that a number of reports have suggested that people tend to take themselves off drugs after the age of thirty. However, I am not in a position to say to what kind of drugs the reports referred. Unless I have been sadly misinformed it would be rare for a person of any age to spontaneously overcome established dependence on heroin. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The International Narcotics Control Board in its report for 1970, has compiled from data furnished by governments of 125 countries annual statistics of consumption of the principal narcotic drugs, morphine, codeine, ethylmorphine, cocaine, pethidine, methadone and dextromoramide. The statistics are expressed in terms of consumption per million of population and cover the years 1965 to 1969 inclusive. These are voluminous statistics which I do not feel should be incorporated in Hansard. I propose to forward a copy to him. 
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission  (Question No. 1907)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice:  ls it a fact that every Presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission appointed since the defeat of the Chifley Government in 1949 was at the time of appointment (a) a legal practitioner practising in industrial law and (b) predominantly engaged in representing employer interests. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have on several occasions referred to well publicised claims by the so-called 'pot-lobby' that marihuana is no more dangerous than alcohol or tobacco, lt is generally conceded that alcohol and tobacco can be dangerous and are the cause of serious health and social problems.  My  contention is that, even if marihuana is no more dangerous than alcohol and tobacco, why add a third problem to those already affecting the community. 
Drugs  (Question .No. 2292) 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the Bill bc now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Bill now before the House provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff .1.966-1970 and relates to changes introduced into Parliament since the 22nd May last year. The first four schedules to this Bill incorporate changes introduced into the House before it rose at the conclusion of the Budget session in 1970. They implement the Government's adoption of recommendations in the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Calcium carbide; Sorbitol and mannitol; Alginic acid and its derivatives; Factice 
Vulcanised rubber sheet; 
Footwear wilh non-leather uppers; 
Alloy steel, high carbon steel and electrical steels; Screws for wood; Centrifuges, 
Weighing machinery and weights; 
Extrusion presses; 
Relays: 
Cinematograph projectors; 
Breathing appliances and artificial respiration apparatus; 
Pencils, crayons and chalks; Vinyl acetate: cellulose acetate flake; Gauze, cloth and grill of copper or copper alloy wire; 
Nitrogenous fertilisers; and  the Special Advisory Authority report on artificial Christmas trees. The remaining schedules to the Bill relate to changes by tariff proposals introduced during this session of the Parliament. They arise from Tariff Board reports on: 
Agricultural and horticultural machinery; and Cherries; and  reports by the Special Advisory Authority on: 
Acetone derivatives: and Industrial radiographic equipment. 
The Bill also makes changes agreed lo by the Australian and New Zealand Governments to extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. Some additional concessions with respect to goods from less developed countries and several tariff changes of a purely administrative nature are also included. 
At the time each of the various Tariff Proposals was introduced relating to the alterations now incorporated in this Bill the nature of the changes was explained at some length. To avoid encroaching on the indulgence of the House I would prefer not to traverse the same ground on this occasion. However, it may facilitate the preparation of speeches by honourable members for the ensuing debate if the speeches made at the time the Tariff Proposals were introduced and the Press statements made by the Minister for Trade and Industry at the time changes were made by 'Gazette' notices v/ere incorporated in Hansard. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard this material. I know that it will involve the Government Printer in the setting of quite a few pages but if it can be done I think it will be of tremendous assistance to honourable members. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Leave is granted to incorporate the material subject to the reservation regarding printing difficulties. 
The documents read: 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS 
No. 11 (1970) 
22 MAY 1970 
1 move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 12 (1970). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which i have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1969. The amendments, which will operate from tomorrow, incorporate changes arising from the Government's adoption of recommendations by the Tariff Board in its interim report under the inquiry on plastic products, etc. in relation to alginic acid and its derivatives, and also recommendations by the Special Advisory Authority in his report on artificial Christmas trees. 
On alginates the Tariff Board has recommended duties of 30 per cent, ad valorem, under the Preferential Tariff, with the General Tariff to be set in accordance wilh international commitments. On artificial Christinas trees the Special Advisory Authority found that urgent action is warranted to protect the Australian industry manufacturing these products in relation to the importation of artificial Christmas trees, branches, foliage and the like. He recommended a temporary additional duty on these goods of 37i per cent, ad valorem, under the General Tariff and a temporary additional duty tinder the Preferential Tariff io be set in accordance with international commitments. This means that the temporary duty under the Preferential Tariff will be 35 per cent, ad valorem. The temporary duty is in addition to existing duties of 7i per cent. ad valorem, General Tariff and Free Preferential Tariff on these goods. Tariff proposals No. 12 also include some changes of an administrative nature only. 1 commend the Proposals to honourable members. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 14 (1970) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M. 1 JULY 1970 
New Zetland-Australia Free Trade Agreement 
The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  said today that the Australian and New Zealand Governments had reached agreement on a further list of commodities to be added lo Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement as from 1st July 1970. 

 Mr Sinclair said that in the main these commodities were those which had been included in the fourth of the regular reviews provided for in the Agreement for the purpose of broadening its trade coverage. During the course of this fourth review, both Governments had considered a common list of products which 'were notified in November last year. 
The Minister also announced the release of a report by the Tariff Board on the question of the inclusion of ceramic tableware in Schedule A. It has been decided to accept the Board's findings and therefore these goods were being included also in the Schedule from 1st July. 
In addition lo ceramic tableware, other goods now added to Schedule A include chlorine; compounded rubber; felts; industrial vacuum cleaners; aerials and antennae; railway rolling stock; honeycomb uncapping * machines; scrub cutting machines: manicure and chiropody sets and tennis balls. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 15 (1970) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M 2 JULY 1970 
Report of the Tariff Board on Sorbitol and Mannitol 
The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry  Mr Sinclair  today released a report on the Tariff Board on sorbitol and mannitol 
The Minister said the Government had accepted the Board's recommendation that both products be made dutiable at rates of 40 per cent ad valorem (General) and 30 per cent (Preferential). The Board's recommendation that sorbitol in aqueous solution be subject to duty based on a support value of $350 per ton had also bees accepted. The duties will come into operation on 3rd July 1970. 
The Minister explained that the new duties will maintain the protection on sorbitol now accorded by combined ordinary and temporary duties which have applied following recommendations from the Special Advisory Authority. On mannitol, which is jointly produced with sorbitol, the proposed rates represent an increase in duty. 
The Minister said the Board had found the local industry to be efficient and worthy of protection. The Board found that sorbitol imports from Europe at subsidised prices had caused injury to the Australian industry and concluded that duties based on a support value should be introduced lo protect the industry. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 16 (1970) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M. 6 JULY 1970 
Report of the Tariff Board on Alloy Steel, High Carlton Steel and Electrical Steels 
The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry, the  Hon.  Ian Sinclair, today released a report of the Tariff Board on alloy steel, high carbon steel and electrical steels.  Mr Sinclair  announced that the .Government had adopted the recommendations in the Board's report. 
The Minister said that part of the Board's recommendation* relating lo certain stainless steel plate, sheet, hoop and strip had been implemented as from 30lh April 1969. These were products which al the time were subject to temporary duties. The balance of the Board's findings were not implemented al that stage because international negotiations were necessary before new rates could be put into effect. 
Implementation of the Board's recommendations will result in duties of 35 per cent General and 25 per cent Preferential applying to a range of alloy steels of specified composition, including such products as stainless steel; low alloy and high carbon steels would be dutiable at rates of 1.5 per cent General and 74 per cent Preferential. Electrical steels would also be dutiable at rates of 15 per cent General and 7i per cent Preferential. For certain specific items there were variations :n these rates - for fiat products containing 12.5 per cent or more of chromium the current alternative fixed rmc duties would continue to apply but in future there would be no qualification in relation to value for duty; on some steel shapes it had been necessary to vary the Preferential rates to accord with international obligations. 
The duty changes would apply as from 7th July 1970. 
The Minister said that the Board had found the local alloy steel industry to be significant in terms of investment, employment and for most sections, use of local resources. It forms an important section of the iron and steel industry and provides users with an extensive range of special steels used in a wide variety of industries. 
In its report the Tariff Board recommended that the question of protection for certain stainless steel flat products be referred to it for further inquiry within about 5 years; the Government had accepted this recommendation. 
The Minister said that the Government endorsed the Tariff Board's conclusions that the local production of electrical steels was a logical extension of the steel industry and that the manufacture of these steels warranted protection. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 17 (1970) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 p.m. 3 AUGUST 1970 
Reports of (he Tariff Board 
The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry, the  Hon.  Ian Sinclair, today released reports of the Tariff Board on calcium carbide, vulcanised rubber sheets, relays, cinematograph projectors, and breathing appliances and artificial respiration apparatus. 

 Mr Sinclair said that the Government had adopted the recommendations in each of the reports. The resulting duty changes would apply from tomorrow morning, the fourth of August. 
The Minister explained that the duties on calcium carbide WOUld be increased by 10 per cent to 40 per cent plus $23.33 per ton General and 40 per cent Preferential, The duty on imports from New Zealand would remain at 30 per cent. The Government had adopted the Tariff Board's suggestion that the duties should be reviewed in 2 years. The Board had said that the industry might achieve cost savings within that period of time. The existing arrangements for the shortfall in local production to be admitted under, by-law would continue. 
In the case of vulcanised rubber sheets, mainly used for rubber soling for footwear, the existing duties of 30 per cent General and 221 per cent Preferential on material for X-ray protection and 40 per cent plus 5 per cent primage General and 121 per cent Preferential on the remainder of the goods would be replaced with duties of 40 per cent General and 25 per cent Preferential, with a rate of 12J per cent on imports from New Zealand. 
The Minister said that duties of 30 per cent General and 20 per cent Preferential would apply to relays under reference, instead of the present duties of 7i per cent General and' Free Preferential for power station and induction type relays, 474 per cent plus 5 per cent primage General and 221 per cent Preferential for telephone and telegraph relays, and 45 per cent General and 221 per cent Preferential for other relays. Imports from New Zealand of power station and induction type relays would remain free of duty and other relays from New Zealand would be dutiable at 20 per cent 

 Mr Sinclair went on to say that duties on 8 mm silent cinematograph projectors would be $10 each General and $10 each less 10 per cent Pref erential. The duties on parts for such projectors would be 40 per cent General and 30 per cent Preferential. The present duties on these projectors and parts are 10 per cent General and Free Preferential. The duties on other cinematograph projectors, which now vary according to the width of the film for which they are designed, would be replaced by duties of 7 per cent General and Free Preferential. 
As production of 8 mm silent projectors only commenced recently and price comparisons were difficult, the Government has endorsed the Board's suggestion that the protective needs of the industry be reviewed in 4 years. 
Adoption of the Tariff Board's recommendations in its report on breathing appliances and artificial respiration apparatus, the Minister said, would result in generally reduced duties of 30 per cent General and 20 per cent Preferential over a wide range of appliances and apparatus other than underwater breathing appliances which were not covered by the recommendations. The present duties are mainly of the order of 55 per cent General and 271 per cent Preferential, although some are lower. The Government had also decided to reduce the General rate of duty on vibratory massagers from 321 per cent lo 30 per cent, in the interests of tariff simplification. 

 Mr Sinclair said that imports from New Zealand of cinematograph projectors and breathing appliances and artificial respiration apparatus would be free of duty. In some cases, therefore, the duties on New Zealand goods would be removed earlier than the date -presently provided for under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 18 (1970) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M. 4TH AUGUST' 1970 
Report of the Tariff Board on Footwear wilh Non-Leather Uppers, lite. 
The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry, the  Hon.  Ian Sinclair, announced today that the Government had accepted, the report of the Tariff Board on footwear with non-leather uppers. 
At present, industry rates- of 45 per cent General, and 25 per cent or 30- per -cent Preferential apply to nearly all the  goods under reference. Where they are higher, -alternative rales of 121 per cent and $0.55 General and $0.55 Preferential apply to adult sizes and 121 per cent and $0.35 General and $0.35 Preferential to children's sizes. In the case of thongs alternative rates are $0.25 per pair General and $0.20 per pair Preferential. 
The Tariff Board recommended the retention of the ad valorem rates, and a progressive phase out from July 1971, and thereafter in 1973 and 1975 of the alternative duties mentioned above. 
In recommending this the Tariff Board considered that the local producers should be given time to re-adjust to changing circumstances of the industry and its market.  '. 

 Mr Sinclair said that the temporary duties on sand boots and shoes will lapse with the adoption of this report. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  19 (J970) 
16 SEPTEMBER 1970 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 19 (1970). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate lo proposed amendments lo the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. Proposals No. 19 (1970), which operates from tomorrow, implements the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's report on pencils, crayons and chalks. In its report the Board recommends duties of 25 per cent general tariff. 15 per cent preferential tariff for ordinary lead pencils. This represents an increase of 24 per cent general tariff, 5 per cent preferential tariff on the value of loose pencils but in relation lo boxed goods and cheap pencils duties will be somewhat reduced. Tariff protection is reduced on school chalks by 274 per cent or more of their value. Other goods, such as crayons and slate pencils, will now be admitted at nonprotective rates of duty of 74 per cent general tariff, free preferential tariff. 
The Government is also adding to the list of hand-made traditional products of cottage industries that are granted duty free admission from developing countries and to the range of products which are eligible for concessional admission under the preferential tariff quota system for goods from developing countries. These proposals give effect to this decision. Effect is also being given to an accelerated duty phase-out on aluminium sulphate imported from New Zealand as agreed io by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. This product, previously included in Schedule A to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, would have been due for duty free admission on 1st January 1974. 
I commend the proposals. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 20  (1970) 22  OCTOBER  1970 

 Mr CHIPP (Hotham- Minister for Customs and Excise) (5.10)-1 move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 20 (1970). 

 Mr Speaker, the Customs Tariff Proposals 1 have just tabled propose amendments lo the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. They implement the Government's acceptance of recommendations by the Tariff Board on the following reports: 
Vinyl acetate and cellulose acetate flake - an interim report under the review inquiry on industrial chemicals; and Gauze, cloth, grill, etc., of copper or copper alloy wire. 
The Tariff Board recommends duties of 50 per cent general tariff and 40 per cent preferential tariff for vinyl acetate. These duties, which represent a reduction of 10 per cent under both the general and the preferential tariff, will come into effect on 1st December 1970. On cellulose acetate flake the Board recommends that the existing duties of 5 per cent general tariff, free preferential tariff, remain unchanged. In addition the Board recommends the rate of bounty payment on the production and sale of cellulose acetate flake for use in the manufacture of cellulose ace tate rayon yarn be varied from 5c per lb to 4c per lb, wilh a maximum payment of $200,000 in any one year. The new rate of bounty will operate from 1st December 1970 to 31st December 1973. A Bill to amend the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1956-1970 will be introduced in due course lo give effect to the Government's decision. 
I turn now to the report on gauze, cloth, grill, etc., of copper or copper alloy wire. The Tariff Board recommends duties of 25 per cent general tariff and 15 per cent preferential tariff, except for woven wire having a construction finer than 120 mesh which is to be free of duty from all sources. These rates represent no change on woven wire finer than 120 mesh but an increase in duty of 174 per cent general tariff and 15 per cent preferential tariff on woven wire for papermaking machines. On other gauze, cloth and grill of copper or copper alloy wire there is a reduction in tariff protection of up to 35 per cent general tariff and 124 per cent preferential tariff. 
The Proposals also allow for accelerated duty phase-out on certain products imported from New Zealand as agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. These products, previously included in Schedule A to the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement will now be admitted free of duty from New Zealand. Also included are adjustments of duty rates on synthetic manufacturing perfumes and on waxy crudes for use as feedstock in the petroleum industry. This restores the basic position in relation to these goods al 30th June 1965. I commend the proposals. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  21 (1970) 27  OCTOBER  1970 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 21 (1970). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals, which I have just tabled, propose amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. They implement the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations in its report on nitrogenous fertilisers, an interim report under the review inquiry on industrial chemicals. 
The Tariff Board recommends that the duties on ammonium chloride be reduced to 74 per cent general tariff and free preferential tariff. The change will have little significance because imports of ammonium chloride have been admitted at these rates under customs by-laws. The report contained more important recommendations on the question of bounty assistance to local production of nitrogenous fertilisers. Since 1966, local production of urea and ammonium sulphate has been assisted by means of bounty payments at the rates of $16 per ton on urea, with an annual limit of $500,000 and S8 per ton on ammonium sulphate, with an annual limit of Sim. 
The Tariff Board conducted a review of these bounties and has made a detailed report on the present nitrogenous fertiliser industry. The Board found, for example, that there had been significant changes in the industry since its 1966 report. Large new ammonium plants have been built in Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia with the capacity to produce large quantities of ammonia, urea and ammonium nitrate in excess of the needs of the Australian market. The report deals in some detail with the excess capacity of the industry, the market growth and future trends of demand. It has assessed the industry's need for protection on the basis of notional costs. 
The Government has adopted the Board's recommendations that local production of nitrogenous fertilisers be not accorded future assistance. Accordingly, the present bounties on urea and on ammonium sulphate will be terminated. It is proposed to issue a proclamation to the effect that the bounties will not be paid after the 18th November 1970. This decision will in no way affect the provisions of the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act which is designed to assist the primary producer. The Act will continue to operate as previously. The Proposals also make further additions to the list of goods receiving concessional treatment under the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. An administrative change is also included wilh respect to certain mineral oil additive preparations, involving no change in effective duty rates previously applying to such goods. I commend the Proposals. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  1 (1971) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M. 9 NOVEMBER 1970 
Report of the Tariff Board on Agricultural, Horticultural, etc. Machinery 
The Minister for Trade and Industry, the Rt  Hon.  J. McEwen, today released a report of the Tariff Board on agricultural, horticultural, etc., machinery.  Mr McEwen  announced that the Government had accepted the recommendations in the Board's report and that the resulting duty changes would apply from Tuesday morning, the tenth of November. 
The duties to be implemented are in many cases significantly lower than those at present applying, with some minor increases in others. 
The Minister said that the Tariff Board found that, in general, farmers appear to have been supplied by local manufacturers with efficient machinery which is constantly being improved and which is available at reasonable prices compared to those obtaining in other countries. Local manufacturers were able to produce equipment which was. in most cases, more than competitive with imported machinery despite relatively modest duty levels. 
The Board recognised the need for Australian primary producers to be supplied wilh the most suitable high quality agricultural machinery at the lowest possible prices. In view of the share of the market held by local production, the Board considered that this need could best be met by the retention of a healthy and viable local manufacturing industry capable of supplying a large proportion of. but not necessarily all. farmers' requirements. 
On soil preparation, seeding, planting, fertilising and harvesting machinery, rates of 20 per cent General and 10 per cent Preferential will apply. 
On most of this machinery these new duties will represent reductions in the General rates, which currently range from 20 per cent to 60 per cent. For Preferential rates there will be increases from the existing rate of 5 per cent to 10 per cent in many cases, and reductions in other cases. 
Reductions are being made in the duties applying to a range of presses and juice extractors. Duties of 20 per cent General and 10 per cent Preferential will apply to wine presses, while other presses and juice extractors covered by the report will be dutiable at 71 per cent General and Free Preferential. 
Dairy machinery will be dutiable at 30 per cent General and 20 per cent Preferential. Duties on imports of this machinery from New Zealand, the major overseas supplier, have-not been varied. Where New Zealand rates arc not already Free on these items, duties will be  phased  out to Free in the near future through arrangements previously negotiated under the New Zealand/Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
On a range of transmission equipment and parts, rates of 20 per cent to 40 per  cent  General and 20 per cent to 30 per cent Preferential will apply. 
The Minister said that the Board had found that the tariff had relatively little effect on prices  lo  end-users of the majority of the goods covered by the report and that competition between local manufacturers was sufficiently keen to reduce the level of prices below that which might otherwise have prevailed if imports were the only determinant. The Board considered that the main value of protective duties lies in !ha encouragement to the local industry to extend the range of production when market demand justifies this expansion. 
The Minister indicated that a number  of  other issues which had been raised in its inquiry were canvassed in the Tariff Board's report. These included the question of protection by bounty rather than by tariffs, the incidence of tariffs on farmers' costs, the need for rationalisation, standardisation of design of agricultural machinery, and the distribution of spare' parts. On the question of standardisation, the Minister said that he had arranged for the Department of Trade and Industry to consult with local manufacturers with a view to establishing a programme for improved standardisation. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  2  (1971) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M. 20 NOVEMBER 1970 
Temporary Protection Industrial Radiographic Equipment 
The Minister for Trade and Industry, the Rt. Hon. J. McEwen, today announced that temporary duties of 471 per cent General and 27-J per cent Preferential would apply to imports of certain industrial radiographic equipment based on the use of radiations from radioactive substances, following adoption of a report by a Special Advisory Authority. 

 Mr McEwen explained that the temporary duty, which would operate from 23 November 1970, would bc in addition to the normal duties. The temporary duties would not apply to goods in transit on 7  October  1970, provided they were entered for home consumption on arrival. 

 Mr McEwen said that the question of the lon? term protection of industrial radiographic equipment based on the use of radiations from radioactive substances had been referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report. The temporary protection now applied was holding action pending the Government's decision on receipt of the Board's report. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  3 (1971) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M.  22  DECEMBER 1970 
Temporary Protection Acetone Derivatives 
The Minister for Trade and Industry, the Rt. Hon. J. McEwen. today announced that following adoption of a report by the Special Advisory Authority a temporary duty of S70 per ton would apply to imports of the undermentioned acetone derivatives 
Methyl isobutyl carbino isoButyl methyl ketone 
Diacetone alcohol 

 Mr McEwen explained that the temporary duly, which would operate from 23 December 1970 would he in addition to the normal duties. The temporary duly would nol apply lo goods in direct iran-ii on 9 November 1970 provided they are entered for home consumption on arrival. 

<graphic href="072131197104072_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  6 (1971) 22  FEBRUARY  1971 
 -1.  move: 
Customs Tariff Proposal No. 6 (1971). 1 table Customs Tariff Proposals No. 6 (1971) which operates from tomorrow. This proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970 

 Mr McEwen said that the question of the long term protective needs of the industry had been referred lo the Tariff Board for inquiry and report. The temporary protection now applied was holding action pending the Government's decision on receipt of the Board's report. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No.  4 (1971) 
PRESS STATEMENT ISSUED WITH GAZETTE NOTICE RELEASED 4 P.M. 30 DECEMBER 1970 
New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement 
The Minister for Trade and Industry.  Mr McEwen  said today th at the Australian and New Zealand Governments had reached agreement on further commodities to be added to Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement as from 1st January 1971. 

 Mr McEwen said that these items had been considered by both Governments in previousrevious of the Agreement, but their inclusion in the Schedule had been delayed pending detailed investigations wilh the industries concerned in the two commies. 
The goods now to be added to Schedule A are ground ginger, certain canned vegetables, unassembled burial and cremation caskets and two steel items. 

<graphic href="072131197104072_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

which are necessary to bring into effect the Government's acceptance of a Tariff Board report on cherries. The Tariff Board recommended no change in duties for fresh cherries and removal of duties on drained, glace, crystallised and brined cherries. The Board concluded that production of drained, glace or crystallised cherries was not economic and that continued protection could not be justified. On cherries in brine, the Board con- 

<graphic href="072131197104072_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

sidered that local fruit could be brined and sold at prices competitive with imports. Accordingly proposal No. 6 proposes the removal of the present duties of 424c per gallon General Tariff and 22ic per gallon Preferential Tariff on brined cherries and 474 per cent General Tariff and 224 per cent Preferential Tariff on drained cherries. Tt is also proposed to remove the present temporary duty on drained cherries. 
The Government has accepted the Tariff Board's report in the light of the Board's view that there are alternative new markets for local brined cherries and that there seems to be a reasonable possibility that the brining of cherries in Australia can continue to be a successful operation. A close watch will be maintained on the marketing situation during 1971 and the question of the protection of the cherry industry would be reconsidered, as a matter of urgency, if alternative markets for brined cherries cannot be found. I commend the Proposals. 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 5 (1971) inserted two by-law provisions for alloy steel rod and bar and are related to the Tariff Board report on alloy steels previously introduced into the House on 25th August 1970. Comprehensive documentation setting out the changes in rates of duty is now being distributed for the use of honourable members during the debate. A glossary of unusual terms in the Bill is also being circulated. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr J.  F. Cairns) adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question has been delayed because of the necessity to undertake considerable research to assemble the information in the form posed by the question. This research has been undertaken because of the importance which I am sure all honourable members attach to this subject. My reply includes a number of tables as follows: 
Table 'A' - Details of seizures of drugs of dependence by the Department of Customs and Excise during the past live years. Table 'B' sets out details of seizures by State Police during the past 5 years. These details are based on reports received from State governments for the purpose of compiling statistics to the United Nations. In some cases police reports do not give full details of actual weight of substances seized and to this extent, the table may be slightly misleading. 
The Customs Act does not provide for offences of peddling and trafficking. Accordingly Table 'C sets out details only of Customs charges and convictions for 'illicit importation' and possession of prohibited imports' being drugs of dependence. Table 'd' shows police charges and convictions for the offences of 'use or administer', peddling' and 'possession' over the past 5 years in respect of narcotics, cannabis and 'other drugs' (including LSD, amphetamines and barbiturates). 
Information recorded in relation to arrests and convictions is not sufficiently sophisticated to permit a precise answer to this question. 
No. 
and (6) The treatment and rehabilitation at drug dependent persons are not matters for which the Department of Customs and Excise is responsible. However. 1 am aware that these responsibilities are generally undertaken by the State Health authorities. The Department does receive statistical and other information on the subject from State governments for incorporation in Australia's Annual Report to the United Nations on the operation of the Single Convention in Narcotic Drugs. This material is not suitable for incorporation in Hansard, but 1 will send copies of recent reports to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tariff Board has a reference under the Dumping and Subsidies Act on 2,4,5-trichloro- phenoxyacetic acid and its esters, salts (including amine salts) and goods based on the foregoing. 
Orange' comes within that reference. 
Yes. 
(a) I understand that the United States authorities took certain action in relation to 2,4,5-T and I quote from 'The Washington Post' of 16 April 1970: 
No action is planned to stop the principal use of 2,4,5-T to control weeds and brush on non-agricultural and grazing land. However, precautions may be advised for use on pastures so as to protect against contamination of meat and milk. Surgeon General Jesse L. Steinfeld disclosed all of the actions at a hearing of a Senate Commerce Sub-committee following their approval by the Secretaries of Health, Education and Welfare, Agriculture and Interior. 
Simultaneously David Packard, deputy defense secretary, announced that, pending an evaluation, the use of 'agent orange' - a defoliant composed equally of 2,4,5-T and a chemically related pesticide, 2,4-D is being suspended.' 
I have no knowledge of this aspect. 
I have no evidence on this aspect but see reply to Question 6. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that - 
Production data are available for each of the herbicides 2.4,5-T and 2,4-D. However, data are not collected in respect of the production of mixtures of these herbicides. Hence the level of production of such mixtures in Australia, if any, is not known. 
Herbicides and defoliants are not shown separately in Australian export statistics but are recorded under statistical items which include other chemical elements, compounds, materials and products. However, during the period 1 July 1966 to 31 January 1971, no goods were reported as having been exported to the Republic of Vietnam under the statistical items covering herbicides and defoliants. 
A circular on 2,4,5-T was published by the United States Department of Agriculture, Department of the Interior, and Department of Health, Education and Welfare on 15 April 1970. The text of the circular is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At the time I was discussing the action of certain overseas insurance companies which, after carrying out research into the subject, had adopted the practice of insisting that persons applying for life assurance complete a declaration that they were not users of marihuana or other drugs of dependence. As stated by the insurance companies such use was believed by them to decrease life expectancy. Of course, this report was not the only basis for my statement. For example: 
In 1969 a Special Presidential Task Force was set up in the United States to examine and report on, amongst other matters, 'The Dangers of Marihuana'. The  Chairman  of the Sub-committee charged with this responsibility was  Dr Stanley  F. Yolles, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health. 
The conclusions of the Sub-committee were as follows - 
There is no question that the widespreaduse of marihuana represents a significant mental health problem. 
There is no known beneficial result from the use of marihuana; there are, on the other hand, definite detrimental effects. 
More research is needed to further our understanding of the effects of marihuana use. However,it is clear that, depending on the dose, the active ingredient found in marihuana may have substantial detrimental effects on both the mental and physical well-being of the user. In this connection it is important to point out that use of a combination of dangerous drugs may have a synergistic effect and may resultin the death of the user. 
Medical evidence neither proves or disproves that marihuana is a cause of crime. Criminal records do establish clearly an accelerating rate of association between crime and the use of marihuana.' 

 Dr James C. Munch, a member of the Advisory Committee to the United States Federal Bureau of Narcotics, stated in his paper The Toxicity of Cannabis Saliva' that Humans smoking marihuana cigarettes, or ingesting leaves of cannabis or extracts therefrom, have developed hallucinations, delerium, progressive brain damage and death from cardiac failure.' 
In a report to the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Mental Health,  Dr Vincent  de Paul Lynch, Professor at St John's University in Jamaica, Queens, New York, said his studies indicated that the 'use of marihuana could have very serious consequences' for human reproduction.  Dr Lynch's  experiment was so calculated that experimental rats received the equivalent amount of marihuana that smokers would normally consume. 
Evidence of liver dysfunction was discovered in 8 out of 12 male marihuana smokers by 

 Dr M. C. Kew of the University of Witwatersrand, South Africa. None of the tested patients was a heavy drinker or an intravenous drug user. 
A report which I regarded as being of particular significance was that of the Expert Committee on Drug Dependence of the World Health Organisation to the 23rd session of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs in 1969. The Committee strongly reaffirmed the opinions expressed in previous reports that cannabis is a drug of dependence, producing public health and social problems, and that control over it must be continued. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. With the indulgence of the House I should like to pay a tribute to those members who accompanied me on this mission. I refer to Senators Dittmer, Condon Byrne and Rae and the honourable members for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn).  A Minister would not want to lead a more loyal mission or one of which he could be more proud. I table the report. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The conditions applicable for merchants' overtime do not provide for the payment of standby duty as such. However, officers are reimbursed for attendance where a ship or aircraft is delayed. 
Yes. 
Where merchants overtime conditions are not applicable, payment for standby duty is made at Public Service rates. 
The system itself has not altered but in 1968 the 'Hours of Customs' were extended to meet changing commercial requirements. The effect of this was to reduce the incidence of overtime payments for which shipping and airline companies are liable. 
One of the Acts I administer is the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act, which provides that if 'not insubstantial injury' is being done to a certain industry by the dumping of goods produced overseas, dumping duties can be levied. A complaint or a reference was made by the Australian Wine Board, I think, in the middle of last year concerning brandy from France allegedly being dumped in Australia. Our investigations indicated that there was some dumping but not of significant enough proportions to warrant, under the terms of the Act, the imposition of dumping duties. My Department is continuing investigations into possible dumping of brandy from countries other than France. We had complaints from the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Association spokesman,  Mr Penfold  Hyland, that some wine was being dumped in Australia. Although it was not a formal complaint, my Department is pursuing investigations to see whether overseas wine is being dumped in Australia. If as a result of those investigations we find that 'not insubstantial injury', to use the quaint words of the Act, is being caused, action will be taken. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applicants who meet the prescribed age and nationality requirements sit for a series of aptitude tests. Selection is based on the results obtained at these tests, an interview and medical examination. Appointments to specific vacancies are then made by the Public Service Board. 
Officers undergo six weeks theoretical training which is followed by three months practical on the job' instruction. During the practical segment officers are recalled to the classroom for syndicate discussion. 
Preventive Officers are responsible for the examination of passengers baggage, searching of ships and aircraft and patrolling wharf and airport precincts. These duties are generally performed under the supervision of Senior Preventive Officers. 
After approximately 18 months service, all officers are given the opportunity of attending a two weeks course of instruction in preparation for an examination to qualify for future salary advancement. Preventive Officers continue to receive practical training on particular aspects of their work and higher level training is available to officers for advancement. 
COBOL Programming Language  (Question No. 3131) 
 I move: 
Firstly, I would like to say how pleased I am personally at the way in which this tariff debate has been conducted tonight. I would like to think that it is different from tariff debates in the past, when they were held on the last or second last night of sittings and when they were brought on at 2 a.m. and gagged time and time again. The fact that we have had an open run since 8 o'clock tonight and that many members have spoken, some more than once, vindicates my belief that members of Parliament wanted to talk in depth about Tariff Board reports and about specific items in them. 
I would like to pay tribute to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and other speakers, but to him in particular in one sense. Tonight he stated unequivocally and categorically the policy of the Australian Labor Party on tariffs. I believe it is to be commended that in this House of Parliament a spokesman for the Labor Party on his particular responsibility should so state policy. What did he say? He made it crystal clear that the policy of the Labor Party on tariffs is nakedly socialistic, and his statement was supported unanimously by speakers for the Labor Party. Again I say it is to be commended that such an important issue in the economic policy of the country should be so clearly stated by the Opposition. But I think that this debate has highlighted one thing, namely, that no longer can any financial journalist suggest that there is a bi-partisan policy on tariffs in this Parliament. There is a dividing line as clear as crystal now, and the gap between the 2 
Parties philosophically on tariffs is wide for everyone to see. 
The Labor Party tonight has come out, surprisingly to me and my colleagues with whom I have discussed it, as an overprotectionist Party that seems to have gone back 20, 30 or 40 years to the bad old days, whereas on this side of the chamber there has been, I would have thought, a liberalisation of our philosophy. The honourable member for Lalor has supported protection virtually at all costs. But that is not enough. He does not only want the Tariff Board directed to protect but, after having made that step, and having in mind the profitability of industry and individual companies within that industry, he wants to control prices as well. He stated this unequivocably and I commend him for it. He did not stop there. He wants not only to direct the Tariff Board regarding profitability and not only to control prices but also to control and curb profits after those 2 steps. So he wants 3 bites at the cherry. 
 I am not saying that it is terrible or otherwise. I am simply saying what I understand the honourable member for Lalor to have said on behalf of the honourable member who has interjected and other members of the Labor Party. I think it would be safe to say that the statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  today has generally been acclaimed by all or an overwhelming majority of members on this side r f the Parliament. That . philosophy which has been acclaimed here has been disowned unanimously by members of the Labor Party. Therefore I think today has been a watershed for tariff debates in this country, and that the Australian people, the manufacturers, the importers, the trade unions and everybody associated with our economy can now see quite clearly the dichotomy in policy on tariffs. Without being provocative or rude to the honourable member for Lalor, he said that the Labor Party is a planning party. 
Do not be ashamed of it. He said it in the context of a tariff debate. After having said that he spoke about the Tariff Board. Proceeding from the premise that the Labor Party is a planning party, clearly a Labor Party in power would direct the Tariff Board to carry out policies in accordance with its master plan. Therefore, under Labor, the Tariff Board, I suggest with respect, would become a tool of government and not the independent authority which this side insists that it should be. 
I do not wish to prolong the debate, but I want to refer to one other statement that the honourable member for Lalor made. He referred to the position when Labor was in power. He criticised this, side of the House for not caring about the implementation of Tariff Board reports in relation to the work force. Without giving reasons, he criticised our philosophy of allowing the free forces in the ' market to determine various economic factors. I remind him that in the past 20 years our record of allowing the free market forces to govern has not been a bad one as far as the labour force is concerned. When Tariff Board reports, which may have caused some disruption in the labour force because of the economic performance of this Government and because of its free enterprise philosophy, have been implemented, those temporarily displaced workers have had ample oppor tunity to find alternative, employment. I conclude by thanking again all those honourable members who . participated in the debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to question No. 2289. If such evidence of the dangers of cannabis is still not sufficient to convince the honourable member that caution is necessary in dealing with this substance I invite his attention to the following: 
A group of 4 scientists headed by Professor William Paton, Professor of Pharmacology at Oxford University have found that the main physically active constituent of cannabis, tetrahydrocannabinol, is liable to be absorbed by body fat and can be acrumulated progressively in the body in the same way as DDT. Professor Paton, who is also  Chairman  of the Home Office inquiry into the effects of cannabis said recently 'If one were to view cannabis simply as  a  new drug which might be introduced into medi.ine, the evidence we already have of health hazards would rule it out'. 
The British Medical Research Council has granted Professor Paton (21,000 for this research project to continue. 
One major question he hoped to answer was whether cannabis had thalidomide-type action on pregnant women. Experiments on animals by several groups of scientists had resulted in deformed offspring. 
The Council on Mental Health and the Committee on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence of the American Medical Association in a joint statement said recently: 
When advocates of legalising marihuana claim that it is less harmful than alcohol, they are actually comparing the relatively insignificant effects of marihuana at the lower end of the dose-response curve with the effects of alcohol at the toxicity end ot the curve - i.e., the 'spree' use of marihuana versus acute or chronic 'poisoning' with alcohol. If they compared both drugs at the upper end of the curve, they would see that the effects on the individual and society are highly deleterious in both cases'. 
If the honourable member is interested in learning more about recent genuine research into the effects of marihuana, I would be happy to supply him with further references. 
I move: 
I move: 
For the information of honourable members, I present copies of an exchange of letters on 6th April 1971 between the New Zealand Minister of Overseas Trade and the Australian Minister for Trade and Industry concerning import of softwood pulp into Australia. 
I present the report by the Tariff Board on the following subject: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) From time to time various inquiries have been conducted overseas to examine the effects of erotic and violent material in books, films, television and other media. The results of these inquiries have been available to, and have been studied by me and officers of the Department of Customs and Excise. In addition, reports of the effects of policies initiated in Denmark and Sweden are closely studied. 
I do not think that at this time, especially bearing the economic situation in mind, much more would be gained by setting up a Commonwealth committee suggested in the Report of the Anglican Synod. 
I am acquainted with the case that the honourable gentleman has mentioned. Some time ago, the narcotics squad of the Department of Customs and Excise apprehended the person named by the honourable member and he was found to be carrying 15 lb of hashish. He was prosecuted and convicted and a judge fined him $400 and gave him 6 months in which to pay. I reacted rather strongly to that sentence which I considered completely inadequate, because the Commonwealth Act specifies that the maximum sentence for such an offence is $4,000 or 10 years gaol or both. Therefore, I instructed my Department to discuss an appeal with the Attorney-General's Department. An appeal was heard by the New South Wales Court of Criminal Appeal which last Friday, I understand, brought, in a sentence of 3 years' gaol. The Court ' also allowed parole after 9 months, . depending on the usual circumstances. While it would not be my function to comment on the sentence, about which  I  have personal views, I would say . that the words the judges used in their, judgement give us a great deal of heart because here we have a Court of Criminal Appeal in which for the first time in Australia 3 eminent judges have stated specifically, that they regarded this as a serious offence. I would hope that those words of such a court would filter down to other courts in the nation and to courts of summary jurisdiction as well. 
The honourable gentleman mentioned the profits that are obtainable from hashish..  His  figures are essentially correct. I think the profit is something like 5000 per cent or 6000 per cent. 
The last part of the honourable gentleman's question concerned State drug squads. I thank the honourable gentleman for his reference to these organisations. Of course, State drug squads are outside of the function of the Commonwealth. All I can say publicly is that I am informed by the. narcotics squad of my Department that now we receive nothing but the utmost cooperation from all State drug squads in the Commonwealth. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill provides for the validation until 30th June 1971 of customs duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals introduced into the Parliament between 28th April 1971 and today. In particular the Bill validates duty collections under Tariff Proposals Nos 7 and 8 (1971) introduced on 28th April 1971 and Tariff Proposals No. 10 (1971) introduced today. Proposals No. 9 (1971) are the subject of the Customs Tariff Bill now before the Senate. 
The Bill will validate duty collections on tariff changes arising from the acceptance by. the Government of the Tariff Board reports on: 
Pins, hairpins and curling grips; 
Refractory products; 
Mining and metallurgical machinery, in respect to diamond drilling machines only; and 
Pulp (New Zealand - Australia Free Trade Agreement). 
Honourable members will note that the validation extends only to 30th June 1971. The tariff alterations will be re-introduced by 'Gazette' notice to operate from 1st July 1971 in a form compatible with other tariff changes which may operate from that date. I commend the Bill. 
Leave granted for debate to continue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The criteria for the selection of officers for promotion to positions of Preventive Officer are contained in section 50 (3) of the Public Service Act and specify that consideration shall be given first to the relative efficiency of officers available for promotion to a vacancy. In the event of an equality of efficiency of two or more officers, consideration shall then be given to their relative seniority. 
Additionally, the Public Service Board, in consultation with the Department, has determined that an officer shall not be transferred or promoted to a position of Preventive Officer unless the officer complies with the following conditions: 1. (a) he has attained the age of 21 years, but has not attained the age of 40 years, or, in the case of a discharged member of the Forces, within the meaning of section four of section one hundred and thirty-nine of the Re-establishment and Employment Act 1945-1962, has not attained the age of 51 years; and 
be has achieved a satisfactory standard at a selection test and medical examination approved by the Board as being appropriate for that officer; or 
He was permanently occupying on 3rd September 1964 an office of Preventive Officer, Grade 1, 2 or 3. 
The present section 50 (3) provision has been in force since the amendments to the Public Service Act in 1945 emanating from the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Systems of Promotion and Temporary Transfer (commonly referred to as the Bailey Committee). 
I am unaware of dissatisfaction with any recent promotions. I understand that some dissatisfaction has been expressed concerning certain recent temporary transfers and the matter is being reviewed by the Department and the Public Service Board. 
1 move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a Community College at Darwin. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of domestic accommodation No. 2 Stores Depot, RAAF, at Chester Hill, N.S.W. 
The proposal involves construction of an officers mess and sleeping quarters, a senior non-commissioned officers mess and sleeping quarters, Women's Royal Australian Air Force sleeping quarters, airmen's sleeping quarters, and airmen's mess and recreation centre, a barracks group comprising workshop, stores, offices and garages, a gate control building, and associated engineering services, roads and footpaths, car parking and sporting facilities. The estimated cost of the proposed works is $2,950,000. 
The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the facilities and has reported favourably on the proposal. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the Committee's recommendations. The Minister for Works has asked that the House be advised that the accommodation study requested of the Department of Works, as outlined in the Committee's report, is proceeding. The information gathered and conclusions reached will be discussed with all civil and services sponsoring departments concerned with provision of living accommodation in relation to their present codes and standards. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1970 a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with combating drug abuse agreed to a recommendation of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence (NSCC) that it establish an Education SubCommittee to integrate, co-ordinate, encourage and advise on education activities in drug abuse. 
Subsequently the Government allocated $500,000 to be spent during 1970-71 on drug education in a manner recommended by the Sub-Committee and approved by the NSCC. The terms of reference of the NSCC do not include the subject of abuse of alcohol or dangers of cigarette smoking. It was set up specifically to deal with the growing current problems of trafficking in and abuse of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Accordingly, it would not be appropriate for the committee to include education to discourage the use of alcohol and tobacco in its education programme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average length of service of Preventive Officers currently employed is 4.30 years. 
Officers commence to be effective after com-, pleting the initial training period and are generally regarded as suitably experienced after 2 years service. 
In 1970, the resignation rate of Preventive Officers was 5.4 per cent which I am- informed is lower than the resignation rate of Fourth Division staff of the Commonwealth Service as a whole. Of' those trained and experienced Preventive Officers who did resign during 1970, I am informed that the offer of better conditions in other occupations was the main reason given. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Redevelopment of hospital at Alice Springs, N.T. 
The proposal involves construction of new buildings, remodelling of some existing buildings and demolition of others to accommodate 313 in-patients and associated staff and services. The new buildings proposed are: 
A three-storey ward block to accommodate 253 patients and supporting hospital facilities; 
A services building for stores, laundry, boiler and chiller house and the mortuary; 
A three-storey nurses home to accommodate 212 sisters. 
Other phases include: 
Alterations to an existing nurses quarters; Extension of the medical officers quarters: 
Remodelling the central sterile supply and theatre block to provide a public health laboratory; 
Remodelling two existing ward blocks to take 20 and 40 patients respectively; 
Remodelling the administrative building for a regional office for the Department of Health; and 
Conversion of laboratory buildings and the aerial medical services building for staff accommodation.. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work is $11,500,000. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for all of the items in the reference and has recommended their construction, with the exception of the residential buildings for nurses and single medical officers accommodation. The design and construction of the residential accommodation is to be the subject of a final report when a study to be made by the Department of Works into the overall question of costs and standards of livingin accommodation has been considered. I informed the House recently in connection with other proposed works that the Department of Works has given priority to the study so that the necessary discussions with the Committee and other departments, and preparation of the final report, can be carried out in a minimum of time. 
The Government shares the Committee's concern that the proposed work should not be delayed pending the final report and now seeks approval to proceed with the proposed works, except for the residential accommodation. Excluding the residential accommodation the estimated cost is $9,700,000. Paragraph 87 of the Committee's report draws attention to deferment of certain works and services which were to have been commenced during the 1970-71 Budget year and to staff proposals for the hospital. The  items  which unfortunately had to be deleted from the current works programme as a result of reconsideration of priorities for a reduction in overall expenditure by the Commonwealth are to be considered together with new items submitted for 1971-72 when the 1971-72 works programme is formulated later this financial year. Works and services for later years, including the future ward wing, which with certain other works will complete the redevelopment of the hospital on the present site, will be kept under review with the view to their submission as the need arises. New staffing proposals for the hospital form part of a comprehensive re-assessment of overall needs for the Northern Territory hospitals and medical services and are being examined by the Department of Health and the Public Service Board. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the Committee's recommendations. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Yirara Residential College for Aboriginal students at Alice Spring, Northern Territory. 
The proposed work involves the construction of a college to provide for some 300 Aboriginal male and female residential students between the ages of 12 and 17 plus years. The college is to have teaching and instruction facilities, an administrative and resources centre, a recreation hall, a kitchen and dining block, 6 student dormitories, a clinic, 6 staff residences and roads, parking areas, sporting facilities and associated engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2,900,000. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposed work and, upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the Committee's recommendations. 
I move: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, to amend the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1) 1957-1970, contains amendments consequent upon the alteration in customs and excise duties in the tariff proposals introduced earlier tonight. The Bill varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel which is sold or disposed of to a person who is not the holder of a certificate and is therefore not entitled to receive concessional treatment. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) 1957-1970 and is complementary to the Bill I have just introduced. The Bill varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel used in propelling a road vehicle on a public road. I commend the Bill. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
 I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Artificial flowers, fruit, etc.; carnival and entertainment articles, etc.; Christmas trees, decorations, stockings, etc. 
Burial and cremation caskets, of wood, unassembled; gramophone record covers, of paper or paperboard, printed or embossed; sails and tents; hoes, rakes and drags, being hand tools; vacuum pumps, including those used with milking machines; and petrol dispensing nozzles, automatic shut-off type (New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement). 
Vegetable oils. 
I present also the following reports by the Tariff Board which do not call for any legislative action: 
Acctylsalicylic acid(Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
Chain and chains (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
Elastomeric fabric and elastic fabric, knitted or crocheted. 
Sulphur and sulphuric acid. 
Pursuant to statute I present also Special Advisory Authority reports on: 
Cathode ray tube display terminals. 
by leave - I move: 
That Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 11 and 12 (1970) , Nos 14 to 21 (1970) and Nos 1 to 10 (1971) constituting Order of the Day No. 25, Government Business, be discharged. 
These Proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Bill 1971, which has now been assented to, and in other customs tariff proposals which were introduced earlier this evening. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is proposed to extend the operation of the Pyrites Bounty Act 1960-1970 until 31st May 1972. The purpose of the Bill is to implement this proposal.. I have already outlined the reasons. for this extension in my speech concerning the extension of the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Bill now before the House provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971 to operate from 1st July 1971 and relates to changes arising from the joint exercise conducted by the Departments of Trade and Industry and Customs and Excise to simplify the Customs Tariff. The alterations included in this Bill are essentially for simplification and, except where the volume of trade is not significant or where, primage has been removed, the changes do not vary the existing rates of duty by more than  2i  per cent of the value of the goods. All proposals for these tariff changes were published and widely circulated and Australian manufacturers and importers were invited to examine the proposals. Requests for alterations were considered and resolved before the proposals were finalised. 
Honourable members will be glad lo know that that the changes included in this Bill will reduce by 1,025 the total number of classifications in the Customs Tariff, that is from 4,039 to 3,014 classifications. This reduction of over 25 per cent of the classifications must mean a substantial saving in time and cost tor all users of the document. Comprehensive summaries setting out the changes and the duty rates are now being distributed to honourable members for use during the debate. I hope the House will give a speedy passage to the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill be  now  read a  second  time. The Bill now before the House extends the operation of the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Act 1954-1970 until 31st May 1972. Under the existing Act bounty ceased to be payable after 31st December 1970. The Pyrites Bounty Act 1960-1970 also expired on 31st December 1970 and I shall shortly introduce a similar Bill to extend that Act for a further period until 31st May 19/2. As the House is no doubt aware the pyrites and sulphuric acid industries are closely allied. Bounty is paid on iron pyrites delivered into a sulphuric acid manufacturer's premises for the purpose of being used in that manufacture and is also paid on the sulphuric acid produced from the iron pyrites. In addition . bounty is paid on the acid produced from lead sinter-gas. Because of this close alliance I shall deal with the reason for the extension of both Acts in this speech. 
The Tariff Board in its report which was released on 20th May 1971 recommended that the Government's obligation to the sulphur and sulphuric acid industries could be most appropriately fulfilled by payment of lump sum compensation. The Government has decided to accept the Board's recommendation. However in order to give the industry a reasonable period of time to plan to meet the new circumstances it has also decided that bounty shall continue until 31st May 1972, after which date compensation will be paid. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
The honourable member's question contains material which relates really to the portfolios of 2 of my colleagues - the Minister for Health and the Postmaster-General. That part of the question which affects me affects that aspect of drug education which the Minister for Health and myself administer jointly on behalf of the Government and for which the Government has hypothecated $500,000 this year for a national education campaign. I have seen the reports to which the honourable gentleman refers and formed my own very strong personal opinions about them. I think that anyone would now express little doubt that cigarette smoking is a dangerous health hazard. If we are discussing dangerous drugs of addiction I think one must concede that one of the present drugs of addiction which are causing damage in Western society certainly would be tobacco as used in cigarette smoking. 
As I understand it, from memory, the figures released by the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria showed that 3,167 Australians died last year of lung cancer,  96  per cent of whom were heavy cigarette smokers. Expenditure of the $500,000 which has been given for education relates mainly to those drugs which are denned by the Single Convention of the United Nations as narcotics and other dangerous drugs and is, as I said before, administered by my colleague the Minister for Health and myself. I will confer with him to see whether attention or consideration could be given to including cigarette smoking in this campaign. 
Might I say, in conclusion, that while we are hopeful that the expenditure of $500,000 will result in young people being dissuaded from taking dangerous drugs and parents being awakened to the dangers of drug abuse, the real answer does not lie. in a national education programme; it lies in the consciousness of parents of the need to educate their children on the dangers of smoking and of taking other dangerous drugs. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 19 (1971). 
The customs tariff proposals which 1 have just tabled relate to a proposed amendment to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971. My colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  earlier this afternoon gave honourable members details of the Government's decision in relation to the Tariff Board's reports on knitted outer garments and shirts. I shall not traverse the same ground except to say that this proposal will restore the effective level of import duties to that applying at 18th August 1971, that is, the date before the temporary duties on certain woven shirts lapsed. In addition, import restrictions on knitted coats, jumpers, cardigans, sweaters and the like and men's and boys' knitted shirts will be reintroduced from tomorrow 8th September on the same bases as those applying previously. These measures constitute holding action for a period up to 18 months. As indicated by my colleague, the Government expects other tariff changes could well be introduced before the expiry of the 18 months. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
by leave - I wish to inform the Parliament of certain decisions that have been taken by the Government concerning its policy regarding the use of crude oil found in Australia. The Government's policy was stated by the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  in this House on 10th October 1968. In brief, this policy sought to ensure that indigenous crude oil would be refined and used in Australia. For this reason, it was determined that for a period of 10 years from September 1970 an obligation was placed on refiners to use Australian crude oil to the maximum possible extent to provide the requirements of the Australian market for refined petroleum products. The policy also provided a guaranteed price to the producers for the first 5 years of this period - a price equivalent to the weighted average import parity price on the 10th October 1968 with an allowance, among other things, for the special quality of this oil. 
To assist honourable member in understanding the terminology in this statement, may I briefly - in general terms - define the parties involved. 'Producers' are those companies which own and extract the raw material from the oil fields. 'Refiners' are those companies which refine Australian and imported crude oil into petroleum products and market these products. 'Mar keters' are those companies who do not engage in refining crude oil themselves, but which purchase petroleum products from refiners in Australia and/or overseas and market the refined products in Australia. 
There is no restriction on the importation of refined petroleum products by either refiners or marketers. However, consistent with its policy, the Government determined that marketers of imported petrol should accept the same obligation as refiners and take a proportion of indigenous crude. To that end Australian crude oil is allocated amongst both refiners and marketers according to a formula based on the relative sales of certain refined products. As the import parity price was a weighted average, it necessarily followed that it was a higher price, to some companies, than the price of the crude ' they had been importing. At the present time, of course, because of significant increases in crude oil prices overseas, the determined price for indigenous crude is less than if similar oil were purchased overseas. 
Since October 1968, the production of indigenous crude has increased to the point where it now supplies approximately 65 per cent of Australia's crude oil requirements. This represents an immediate saving to Australia in the current year of approximately $230m in foreign exchange payments. However, because of difficulties being encountered by some refiners in using crude oil for which their refineries were not originally designed, the Government at the request of the industry, agreed that some exports of crude oil may be permitted to meet short term problems of individual refiners provided: (a) Refiners have in existence capacity to process crude oil up to their normal marketing requirements, or firm plans to install such capacity; (b) refiners ensure a reasonable balance between exports of indigenous crude and imports of crude oil, with no reduction in the company's refinery activities in Australia; and (c) they are willing to disclose the terms upon which such exports will be made. 
The industry has been informed that, exports in general would be restricted to 20 per cent of the allocation of crude oil required to be taken up by either refiners or marketers. Provision was also made that, in exceptional circumstances, the 
Government would be prepared to consider an approach by any company to have this limit varied. Consistent with this policy 5 companies have been permitted to export a proportion of their allocation. The exports to date amount to approximately 2 per cent of total indigenous production. In each of these cases, the Government had accepted that the companies concerned were having difficulties because of the different type of oil normally used pending a realignment of their refining facilities. Refiners are investing significant amounts of money to readjust their refineries to cope with Australian oil. 
Recently .2 marketers of petrol, who do not have refinery facilities in Australia, sought permission of the Government to export the whole of their allocation of indigenous crude oil. They were again informed of the Government's policy, as outlined above, and were asked to negotiate with local refiners to have their allocation of indigenous crude oil refined in Australia. However, they, were also informed that, if either existing or proposed refining arrangements were not mutually acceptable, the Government would again reconsider the applications. To this end, the Government indicated that it was prepared to call upon an independent arbiter to determine whether the arrangements proposed by the refining companies were equitable. In the event, agreement has not been reached and, at the request of the Government,  Sir Leslie  Melville, K.B.E., has undertaken to advise the Government as an arbiter.  Sir Leslie  will be assisted by  Mr T.  A. Webb, a consulting engineer, who has had long and varied experience in the oil refining industry. 
On the receipt of the Arbiter's advice, the Government will reconsider these applications. I turn now to the subject of dumping. Recently, several oil companies approached the Government alleging that petroleum products from some countries were being dumped in Australia in contravention of the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act. It is a fact that in some countries refiners produce petroleum products in excess of those countries' requirements. Consequently to dispose of this surplus there is compulsion to seek export markets and if necessary to supply them at low prices. I point out that the Government's policy is that no Australian industry should suffer because of unfair trading practices by overseas exporters. In accordance with normal procedures, these allegations have been examined and, on the best information available to the Department of Customs and Excise, it would appear that dumping has taken place to an extent which may be causing not insubstantial injury - and I use here the precise term of the Act - to the refiners of petroleum products in Australia. Consequently, the industry has now been informed that, if petrol is exported 6n or after 31st August 1971, from certain countries, at a price lower than the normal values that have been assessed, dumping cash securities will be collected. However, companies have been invited to submit any evidence they may have if they consider the normal values assessed are not accurate with a view to a re-examination of this aspect. 
In accordance with the normal procedure, if petroleum products are imported at lower than the normal value, the question will be  examined by the Tariff Board in accordance with the terms of the Dumping and Subsidies Act. The Government is conscious of the complex nature of this industry with its many component parts and conflicting interests. The indigenous oil policy has been of great advantage to Australia. It has resulted in massive quantities of crude oil and natural gas being found in Australia. It has encouraged further research and exploration into finding new fields. It has insured that Australia will not simply be a 'quarry' from which the raw material is mined and taken out of Australia for processing. On the contrary it has stimulated significant investment and created much employment for Australians. It has insulated motorists against dramatic increases in oil prices which have taken place overseas. At the same time it has allowed free competition to function, in that persons other than established oil companies can import petroleum products and sell them on the Australian market. 
The Government is conscious that its policy in this area not only affects the oil companies per se, but thousands of smaller business men and employees engaged in marketing and distribution. It would be unthinkable if the Government did not act in accordance with the law and its declared policies when alleged unfair practices are brought to its notice. The Government has done this in invoking the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act. However, as I have said every opportunity will be given to importers if they wish the matter to be further reviewed. In the last resort the final decision can only be made after a report by the Tariff Board. 
I present the following paper: 
Indigenous Oil Policy - Ministerial Statement, 7 September 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That (he House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, a meeting was held in September 1970 with State Ministers responsible for matters of censorship. Agreement was reached that a recommendation supporting the introduction of an 'R' certificate for films would be made to the various governments and that recommendation has been accepted. 
State Ministers noted a proposal that there should be provision for recourse to the courts to determine whether or not as a fact afilm was obscene. However, after further and more detailed examination of this proposal by the Commonwealth it has been decided that it should not be implemented. 
There was no necessity to amend those parts of the Customs (Cinematograph Films) Regulations which relate to the registration of films. 
Action has been taken to amend territory ordinances and State legislation and present indications are that these amendments will enable the R' classification to be introduced during October 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) The brewing of beer of a strength of 2 per cent or more proof spirit is subject to the following conditions: 
Payment of an annual licence fee of $10. 
Lodgement of a minimum security of $1,000. 
Excise duty at a rate of $1.1375 per gallon must be paid on all beer produced whether for personal consumption or not. 
Appropriate records of production and disposal must be kept. 
I understand that the situation in Britain regarding homebrewing of beer is as stated by the honourable member. I also understand that excise free production of home-brew beer is not permitted in such countries as United States of America and Japan. 
The situation in Australia is that the excise on beer produces a very substantial proportion of total excise revenue receipts. Accordingly any excise free concession given to home production of commercial strength beer could have a serious effect on the Commonwealth Government's returns from this area. This of course could not be justified in the current economic climate. 
Royal Australian Navy: Personnel Leaving Ships at Sea  (Question No. 3851) 
I am not in possession of that information. I will consult with my colleague, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  and supply the honourable member with the information. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a tactical trainer building at HMAS Watson', South Head, Sydney, New South Wales. 
The proposed work involves construction of a building approximately 200 ft by 200 ft on 3 levels to accommodate administrative areas, amenities, syndicates and lecture rooms, auditorium, command cubicles, model room, plant and other services for the Navy's action information organisation and tactical trainer, the submarine command team trainer and the naval tactical school. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3. 2m. The Committee has recommended construction of the work subject to an amendment to the design to allow views over Sydney Harbour from the common rooms, if this can be achieved without prejudicing the completion target. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  has advised me that his Department studied this matter and recommended that no alterations be made because a major design amendment would be required which could not be undertaken in the time allotted for the preparation of tender documents. The present tender target must be achieved to ensure completion of the building in accordance with the timetable for delivery of electronic equipment. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can continue in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a community college at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal referred to the Committee involved construction of an integrated complex of buildings and services including an administrative centre, classroom block, workshop/ laboratory buildings, theatre, library and cafeteria building, residential accommodation, roadworks, parking areas, covered ways, sporting areas and associated engineering services. Acting on the recommendations and conclusions in the Committee's interim report dated 7th April 1971, this House resolved on 6th May 1971, that it was expedient to proceed with the proposed works, excluding the residential accommodation, at an estimated cost of $3,610,000. The final report of the Committee dated 6th July 1971, recommended the construction of the residential accommodation as proposed, at an estimated cost of $390,000. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I move: 
That in acordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a communications building at Bendigo, Victoria. 
The proposal involves the construction of a building of ground and 3 upper floors as the first stage of telecommunications complex and will accommodate trunk line and automatic trunk switching equipment, local subscribers' services, tandem switching and a manual assistance centre. Provision has been made for the future erection of a radio tower to carry antenna systems for microwave communications. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.7m. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposed work and has recommended its construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed works be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of primary and pre-schools at Bradshaw (Alice Springs) and Nakara (Darwin), Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the construction of 2 school complexes to a common design, each to accommodate 800 infant and primary pupils and 70 pre-school pupils. The schools have been planned on the op:n space class teaching principle, and facilities will include separate infants and primary assembly areas, a library, an infant's learning area, 2 primary learning areas, administration area and central plant area. All buildings will be single-storey, connected by covered ways. Learning areas will open onto enclosed courts and gardens. The total estimated cost of the proposed works is $2.475m. I table plans of the proposed works- 
 in reply - In answer to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  the information is that each project is expected to take 18 months to construct. Completion is desired by the Department of Education and Science before the commencement of the 1974 school year. The Department has been asked to obtain ministerial approval to proceed with the preparation of tender documents during the period of the Public Works Committee's reference and report. The tender target date is March 1972 which indicates, I think, to the honourable member for Dawson that there is not so much urgency as to preclude reference to the Public Works Committee. I would have thought that the honourable member for Dawson would know that because he should know that the Government has, in cases which it does deem to be urgent, dispensed with the making of a reference to the Public Works Committee. One wonders whether the honourable member for Dawson consulted his colleagues on the Committee and I wonder what the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  - who, I am sure, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  as  Chairman  of the Committee, will testify are doing magnificent work on that Committee - would think of his intervention this morning in this way without reference to his colleagues. 
I said nothing of the kind. I read out the information supplied by my colleague the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  which I would have thought would satisfy any curious mind. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Northern Territory development roads (1971 reference). 
The work involves the construction of 91 miles of sealed road, 20 feet wide, from a point near Orange Creek on the Stuart Highway, some 26 miles south of Alice Springs, to the Ayers Rock turn-off, li miles north of Erldunda and the sealing to a width of 12 feet the 102 miles of gravel surfaced beef road from Timber Creek to Dingo Gap near the Western Australian border. The estimated cost of the proposed works is $5. 4m. The Committee has agreed that there is a need for the works in the reference and has recommended construction as proposed. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
in reply  -  I wish to delay the House for only a short time in order to answer the questions raised by my friend the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  about experimental sections. The Department of Works went into this question and considered the extra costs involved in the construction of experimental sections on a wider basis, as suggested by the Public Works Committee. Those costs would have been truly significant and the Department considered that before proceeding with such work detailed inventories should be made in order to discover the extent of the problem. 
Accordingly, a detailed survey and inventory of the occurrence of shoulder and edge wear were undertaken, first on the Katherine-Willeroo road and then on the Willeroo-Top Springs, Daly WatersCape Crawford and Stuart HighwayHumpty Doo-Mount Bundey roads. All of these roads will be well known to the honourable member. This investigation indicated that only one single lane beef road - the Katherine-Willeroo Road - was suffering from significant edge and shoulder wear and that the main reason for this - lower than normal standard of alignment, curves and crest - was not applicable to the other roads. In the light of these findings it was considered that the construction of purely experiemental sections of 2-lane beef roads would not be justified. However, the collection of further data will continue on a long term basis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable gentleman will recall that I mentioned in a reply to a similar question last session that we were experiencing considerable practical difficulties in arranging a meeting of Ministers. 
We have experienced similar difficulties in arranging a meeting of officers with a venue which would be convenient to countries within South East Asian region. Because of this we are now looking again at the possibility of holding a meeting in Australia later this year. 
In the meantime a meeting of the Narcotics Commission is to be held in Geneva. While Australia is not represented on the Commission it is proposed to send observers with a view to being involved in those matters of particular interest to 
Australia. I understand that there is likely to be strong representation at the meeting from countries within South East Asia. Discussions at the meeting will no doubt point to what action might best be taken collectively by countries in the region to combat the drug problem. 
Overseas Investment in Australia  (Question No. 3233) 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Chain and parts therefor, of iron or steel. 
Light weight cotton sheeting. 
Pursuant to statute I present also the Special Advisory Authority report on: 
Woven man-made fibre fabrics. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals  No. 20 (1971). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amend ments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971 and will operate from tomorrow. These Proposals implement the Government's adoption of the Tariff Board recommendations on:  light weight cotton sheeting: and chain and parts therefor, of iron or steel.  and the Special Advisory Authority report on:  woven man-made fibre fabrics. 
In the report on light weight cotton sheeting weighing less than 3½ ounces per square yard, the Tariff Board has recommended that a general tariff rate of 30 per cent be applied, with the preferential tariff rate set according to international commitments. Presently such sheeting is dutiable at a rate of½ per cent general tariff and free preferential tariff but certain better quality sheeting known as 'percale' is dutiable by application of a Substitutes and Imitations Notice at 55 per cent with a maximum of 25c per square yard, general tariff. The Substitutes and Imitations Notice will now be revoked. 
On chain the Board has recommended rates of 35 per cent general tariff and 25 per cent preferential tariff for sprocket and conveyor chain and parts therefor. For other chains rates of 25 per cent general tariff and 17½ per cent preferential tariff have been recommended. 
In its report the Board noted that since its 1965 report on chain there has been no significant increase in local content in the manufacture of transmission chain and suggested that by-law entry of components for the manufacture of chain be discontinued. This suggestion has not been accepted because such action would be contrary to established by-law policy. However, interested Departments will consult with the companies concerned to review existing and proposed levels of local content and the implications for future by-law entry for components in this area. 
I turn now to the Special Advisory Authority's report on woven man-made fibre fabrics. The Special Advisory Authority found that urgent action was necessary to protect the Australian industry and recommended temporary additional duties of 10c per square yard on most types of imported man-made fibre fabrics and 15c per square yard on woven fabrics containing over 10 per cent and less than 50 per cent of silk in admixture with 20 per cent or more of man-made fibres. Polyester cotton mixture fabrics weighing less than 3.8 ounces per square yard and some other types of fabrics will be exempt from these temporary duties. Also included in Proposals No. 20 are changes making certain marginal and preferential adjustments in respect to the plastics report tabled last month, including a simplified arrangement of tariff classifications in respect to plastic articles. A comprehensive summary of the changes and duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 The Appropriation Bill is the main fiscal and economic policy statement of the year. It is the instrument which determines the guidelines of economic activity for at least the next 12 months. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  have stated this present instrument is a flexible one and one which can be used to adjust temporary movements. I shall now say the only political thing that I wish to say in my speech. I have been saddened by the gleeful way in which members of the Opposition are probing the Government day after day on rising unemployment figures. 1 remember the first year I was in this Parliament, the year of the credit squeeze, when Opposition members were joyful each day as unemployment figures rose. This seems incongruous for a party which champions - so called - the workers to gain some joy from the unemployment figures rising each day of the week. Might I remind them of a fundamental economic truth. If one makes a prophecy of doom in this most delicate area of employment and saps confidence then one has planted the first seed to create more unemployment. 
Having said that might I say a truism. This Budget does affect all matters including employment levels, expenditure and social welfare. It impacts itself on exports, life in the cities and life in the country. In fact, there are very few areas which a Budget does not touch. Because of this it has become traditional it is even written into standing order 81  -  that the Parliament becomes the forum upon which to debate any issue affecting the welfare and happiness of the Australian people. The Budget debate is, therefore, much more than a debate on the economy alone, it provides a unique opportunity for discussion on all matters concerning not only our standard of living but also our style of living. 
With this in mind an outside observer might be forgiven for being critical that perhaps too many of the speeches given in the present debate have been those primarily directed to matters of material significance. Growth and development have become key words in today's society. A belief in the need for growth seems to be an integral part of modern living. Not only Australia, but the whole world is passing through an era where economic growth and development is manifested on all sides of a rapidly changing society. Whether he wants to or not, even the smallest businessman is caught up in this dogma of growth. He must keep on expanding his enterprise or be swallowed up. The operative word is growth; growth at any cost but always measured in material terms. It is almost becoming an obsession which I fear may dim our values. 
We are at a point in our history where governments tend to stand or fall on the growth record of the country while they have been in office. Political parties constantly criticise each other for the supposed inadequacy of their policies in fostering ever faster growth rates. The catchcry for a twentieth century candidate for political office, whether at the municipal, state or national level surely is the promise of greater growth and development during his term of office. There is no doubt that economic growth has brought us enormous benefits. The goods and services we now take for granted would have been inconceivable for previous generations, benefits that certainly allow more people to live better and longer than in any previous age; and that is progress. But, in our search for advancement, one should stop and wonder sometimes whether we are making real progress in human terms as distinct from material terms. lt would be a sad reflection on this Parliament and on the Australian public it represents if in our constant pursuit of economic progress, we neglect to stimulate discussion on those other issues designed to improve the quality or style of living, as distinct from our standard of living. In this connection, it was not encouraging for me at least to learn from the Australian nation wide opinion poll that when asked Australians saw as the 3 main advantages of living in Australia, first, a good standard of living, second, the climate and, third, other qualities primarily connected with the physical comfort of the people. 
I was impressed with the editorial in the Australian' of 23rd August 1971 which said: 
The poll confirms a commonly held view of us. by some of our compatriots as well as by some foreigners, as fairly unambitious folk who are preoccupied with comfort, money and property, with concern mainly for economic stability and security. 
The editorial concluded by saying: 
In a way, the limits of our ambitions have served us well;, we cause no trouble in the world's councils and the only people to have felt the backs of our hands have been palpable villains - mostly Asians. 
Still, there is room for another worry that got no mention in the poll at all: that, while we are contemplating our navels so assiduously, the whole world might pass us by. 
I should like to briefly discuss some of those issues which I believe bedevil our society as distinct from our economy today, issues which present a significant challenge to our future progress and development. These issues are not only the responsibility of Government but surely the responsibilities of the people as well. 1 refer first to our apparent reluctance, even refusal, to consider those problems in the non-hip-pocket-nerve area. A distinguished Australian whom 1 admire tremendously,  Sir James  Darling, said very recently: 
Mankind has a remarkable capacity to resist an idea which might disturb its peace of mind if it were accepted. At the first sign of the idea it withdraws into its established shell and condemns the proponents as cranks, crackpots, idealists, nohopers. radicals, or nothing more or less than a bloody commo. Society has a second line of defence if this one failed: This was to say 'Oh yes,  that, we've heard all that before'. Finally, when the words of the prophet turned out to be true, mankind took to is reserve trench and sought a scapegoat. 
Is he not right? We are constantly reminded in the Press, on radio and television of the horrors of war, pollution, racism, alcoholism, abortion, drug abuse, conservation, the road toll, and one could go on. How do we react not only as parliamentarians but as a people to those reports? Have we not learnt to live with the idea that we are capable of completely destroying ourselves through atomic warfare, although surely the threat is still there, as real, as terrifying, as hideous as it was in 1945? One only had to read the article by  Mr Rohan  Rivett in last weekend's 'Review' to get some sort of perspective of the state which the world is in today. 
And are we not now learning very fast to live with the concept that the world is in the process of destroying itself at a terrifying rate by the physical pollution of the environment? Pretty soon this too will become a bore and the national conscience, wrapped in a cocoon of complacency, will go quietly to sleep again. And what of the growing disaffection of today's youth for our society? Do we treat this with the same indifference? Are we sufficiently concerned to ask why it should be so, or do we dismiss the problem as one which has been handed down for generalions? We have heard the smart remark: Oh, look, the generation gap was mentioned by Socrates 3,000 years ago'. We have heard the equally unsmart remark that the generation gap is nonsense because fathers have a habit of being older than their children. Worse still, do we simply not acknowledge any existence of communication gaps. 
I believe that today's youth see with crystal clarity that they live in a world in which all major issues are global issues, not local issues. 1 suggest that they see 4 issues. They are vitally concerned with the problems of world hunger, world illiteracy, the horrors of war, and racism. To them there is no dilemma. They believe that the present social, economic and political structures are perpetuating and will continue to perpetuate these problems. Without fear or even without thought of consequences, the idealism of youth demands action on these fronts at any cost to us and without considering the cost. Their admirers - and they have some - say this is the magnificent manifestation of the charisma of youth. Their critics and the knockers contemptuously suggest that it is because they have no responsibilities. They say: 'They haven't got kids at school. They haven't got a job that could be taken by an Asian worker. They don't pay taxes. They don't contribute to foreign aid'. 
But I wonder whether it is really so surprising that our young are seemingly so unimpressed by the ways in which modern technology has exploded - the spending of huge sums on space probes, for example, while massive human problems and physical deprivation still exist on our planet earth. Their own sense of frustration is compounded by the fact that, though educated to fulfil a useful role in combating these very problems, they remain remote from the decision making areas and are thus pre-empted from using their skills in the areas for which they were trained. 
The young man's counter reaction may manifest itself in protest, and it is then that society groups itself as though for civil war - the establishment versus the youth - without either side understanding or trying to understand each other's position. The young may not be able to identify in detail the basis of their revolt and they may be widely astray in what they conceive to be the remedy. But I suspect that the mainspring of the attitude of the young people of goodwill is a realisation that the golden calf of material growth and the constant pursuit of material wealth is a false and unsatisfying god. I quote from Professor James E. Weaver, a distinguished American economist who said in Australia in May 1971: 
The children of this affluence may well realise that with all of our vaunted growth this century has produced more wars, more mass murders, more systematic genocide, more ecological catastrophes, more alienation, more crime, more ugliness, more noise than any previous age. 
The young are questioning many of the institutions which have created these results. One would have thought that all of our material possessions would have made us happy. But our system seems to be fatally flawed. The young today are asking the same question asked of old, 'For what doth it profit a man to gain the whole world, if he loses his own soul'. 
This questioning of our institutions and the directions they are taking us may well be healthy. This brings me to another issue which recently has come to prominence amongst the Australian community at large. 1 refer to the right of dissent amongst members of the community but more particularly amongst students at the universities. I remember my own days at the University of Melbourne, which was not a hundred years ago but one generation ago, when our actions, our behaviour as students, our right vocally to disagree with the decisions of the ruling body of the university were virtually non-existent. An extremist in any form in those days ran the risk of forfeiting any chance of finishing his degree at that university if he fell foul of the ruling body - and that was not hard to do. In other words, he was sent down without any appeal to the authorities or to the Press and with no chance of gaining public sympathy. 
But happily - I say that advisedly - this situation has changed through the years. 
In one short generation by a gradual process students now have gained what 1 call the precious right of dissent. Their right has been won by action taken by students and reputable student organisations at campuses throughout the world. Students of universities nowadays have more freedom of speech, expression and action than at any other time in history. Yet unhappily some are resorting to that age-old loser in the form of political activity - the use of violence or non-productive means to attain their ends. I say to the student population: This is a precious right which you have won. Do not abuse it. It gave me no pleasure to attend the University of Queensland a couple of months ago as an invited guest and to be confronted with placards calling for students to 'strike now' and 'close the campus' and to witness a well attended meeting by students being addressed by a senator of this Parliament, a man who I understand does not possess a university degree, calling on these young idealistic, altruistic students to go on strike at a time when the majority of them should have been using that precious time to study for examinations at the end of the second term. 
 Is the honourable member wanting to identify someone? I did not mention his name. The call by this senator could hope to harm only one section of the community - the students he was addressing. Who else could he possibly hope to influence by closing down a university for political means? The purpose, of course, was the purpose of men of bad will, that is, the purpose of causing a breakdown in the institutions and causing anarchy; and the poor idealistic, wellmeaning young people are the only ones who suffer. But 1 have a great faith in the majority of students. During the recess I spoke at every university in Australia  -  I spoke at some of them twice - and I have been pleased to find that I have a great deal in common with many of their ideals and feelings. 1 implore them not to abuse their special place in society and not to be influenced by the odd political demagogue who appears on their campus from time to time to espouse his own way-out dangerous philosophy, but to use their undoubted energy and ability to change and reform society by productive and not disruptive means. 
One of the most tragic results of this conflict with the enlightened, liberated young is the creation of a world of 'us' and 'them', the assumption by youth that they have a monopoly of the quality of idealism, the assumption that the 'oldies' and the straight people of my generation all are reactionary, completely dehumanised, obstructive and obsessed with protecting their hideous sacred cows in their pristine pastures. In this context 1 believe that we as members of Parliament should take the lead and have the courage to look closely at some of the hitherto sacred cows in our own philosophies. This is a challenge surely facing all political parties today. I suggest that the Labor Party might well re-examine its obsessive fear of the bad old days of sweated labour, the misery of life in the coal mines and the intolerable working conditions. There is no question that a generation or two ago employers mercilessly exploited the worker and it is therefore not so surprising that members of the work force should harbour this hangover, holding employers in subconscious resentment. This manifests itself in a wish - again, sometimes subconscious - to get even with the boss for his past sins by not giving a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. It is an attitude ably exploited by some ruthless and irresponsible union leaders. But let the work force not fool itself. Logic demands acceptance of the view that a greater slice of the cake can come only from a bigger cake. 
Serious doubt is now being cast on the age old maxim that the only way to get the worker to do his fair share was by not too gently caressing, his back with the whip of an unemployment pool. Modern day industrialists, often motivoted, I would concede, as much by pragmatism as by humanitarian instincts, have found that incentive payments for work done produce palpable and exciting results. There is another sacred cow, I would suggest, that honourable members opposite might look at. Incentive payments are not necessarily the ruse of wicked employers to sweat labour more, but when geared to the proper basis can be helpful to everyone. To honourable members on my own side of the House I would suggest that we face the same challenge. The word 'planning' need not cause psychotic palpitations in the Libera) breast every time it is mentioned. The fierce devotion to the hard and fast plan may still remain in the dogma of the socialist bible, but surely the concept of looking at national goals for this country in 1980 and working towards them is worth contemplating. Indeed, if we are to fulfil the promise of our national development in all its aspects the vision of achievements in the 1970s will be essential. The image of the 'vision splendid' presents a challenge to all of us - the Australian people, the individual, and the Parliament. 
We need to take stock of our aims and reassess our life style and our life values. We need to reinterpret the vision of progress in a way that will make it attainable and a source of human happiness and fulfilment. This is both a community and a personal responsibility as well as a responsibility of the Government. It is not enough to pressurise the Government and look to Big Brother all the time, however necessary that is. Citizens, individually, in all areas of human endeavour must be involved. Without this involvement that noble definition of democracy as government of, for and by the people is debased to a meaningless cliche as it has been now. Would that another phrase should catch the imagination of the man in the street so that he might involve himself in the problems of the nation. Or is it that man is, after all, an island unto himself? Surely the poets, philosophers, statesmen and thinkers of the past tell us loudly from their resting places that that is not so. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a brucella vaccine testing laboratory, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. 
The laboratory is planned to be erected on the site of the future National Standards Laboratory for the purpose of testing the efficiency of brucella vaccine manufactured by private enterprise for use in the vaccination campaign to eradicate brucellosis in cattle. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $870,000. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.' 
I- present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24-year-old graduate in Building Technology, and Geoffrey Mullen, a 24- year-old graduate in Political Science, are serving a 2-year gaol sentence for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions; 
That their failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that their imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, remove from the record all convictions made under it, and cause Charles Martin and Geoffrey, Mullen, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released and cease all further prosecutions under it. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Replacement of accommodation at HMAS 'Albatross', Nowra, New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the erection of accommodation in the living-in zone at HMAS Albatross' to replace substandard buildings and its main components are: an assembly hall, extension to the junior sailors' canteen, junior WRANS' sleeping quarters, a senior sailors' mess and galley, wardroom, officers' sleeping quarters, senior sailors' sleeping quarters, and junior sailors' sleeping quarters. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $5. 8m. The works in this proposal comprise the third and final stage of a progressive programme of replacement of substandard buildings in the livingin area. The 2 earlier stages were reported on by the Committee in 1968 and 1969. The living accommodation components of the proposal are to traditional designs to be harmonious with permanent buildings on the base and are in accordance with the current approved Services scales and standards of accommodation. 
Honourable members will recall my statements in the House during the previous session that the Department of Works has undertaken, at the request of the Committee, a comprehensive exercise on the relative costs and standards of various forms of living accommodation covering traditional barrack and hostel styles and newer motel and flat types. The results of this study and the implications to Services accommodation are being studied in depth and it is hoped soon to be in a position to determine more conclusively whether or not variations of the conventional barrack type of accommodation or different types might offer equally acceptable or even better standards of accommodation and which at the same time will be cheaper to construct or at least as economic. The Government is pleased to note the Committee's concern that the works in this reference should not be delayed in order to consider different styles of accommodation in lieu of the traditional types as proposed. 
The matter of carpeting sleeping accommodation will be pursued to determine whether there is justification for amendment to the approved Services scales and standards of accommodation which will of course affect all future proposals for sleeping accommodation at defence establishments. 
As to the works comprising this reference, the Committee has concluded there is a need and has recommended construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 21 (1971). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971 and will operate from tomorrow. On malleable cast iron pipe fittings the Tariff Board was of the opinion that the industry as presently constituted cannot be considered economic and efficient. The Board considered that in the long term a general rate of 40 per cent is the highest that could be regarded as consistent with economic and efficient production in the industy. The Board therefore recommended this rate as the long term level of assistance but that this level be arrived at over 5 years. Duties from tomorrow will be 60 per cent reducing to 50 per cent from 1st January 1973 and to 40 per cent from 1st January 1976. The Government has accepted the Board's recommendations. 
The Tariff Board report on steam engines, boilers and power units has been received but is not being released at this stage pending international negotiations. Certain flue-heated economisers included in the Board's recommendations are presently subject to temporary duties, which will lapse tomorrow. Rates of 25 per cent general and 15 per cent preferential recommended by the Board for these econo.misers will apply from tomorrow. The rates of duty on industrial paper caps and hats which were changed by the Tariff Simplification Proposals are being restored by these Proposals to levels more closely related to those previously applying. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I present the report of the Tariff Board on the following item: 
Malleable cast iron pipe fittings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In August 1970 I attended a meeting of State and Commonwealth Ministers responsible for firearms controls. 
The meeting was concerned primarily with the desirability of introducing uniform legislation concerning the sale and licensing of firearms; this is a matter for State Governments. The Commonwealth's roles is limited to the control of the importation of firearms, at the request of those governments, by means of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. 
However, one matter on the agenda which was of particular interest to my department and which has been the subject of continuing attention since the meeting, is the question of safety testing of imported firearms. Safety standards were first imposed in 1960 at the request of the State Police forces. They have recently been the subject of representations to me and numerous discussions between members of the firearms trade, shooting organisations, firearms experts, the police and my department. At my instigation a formal meeting will be held this week to consider a draft set of revised standards. 
I understand that a sub-committee of Slate officers is at present examining State firearms legislation with a view to achieving uniformity in the other matters which were discussed at the meeting. The examination at this stage is concentrated on controls applicable to hand-guns. The submittee's report to State Ministers has not yet been finalised. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 5: Application in Papua New Guinea  (Question No. 3272) 
The procedure upon which duty or excise is paid on petrol or other commodities related to- my jurisdiction is at the point at which the goods are entered for home consumption. That would apply both to tariff duties on imports and excise duties on locally produced goods. To my' knowledge, there has : been no change in the procedure relating to petrol or anything else. However," I will look into the matter as the honourable gentleman has requested. 
 I will not delay the House but as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  asked some questions I thought they might like answers at this stage. The honourable member for Dawson raised a question relating to increased selling prices. I can give the honourable member the assurance that he sought from me, although I was not too keen about the euphemism 'watch dog' that he ascribed to me, that every variation in price is fully investigated by the Department of Customs and Excise to ensure that the bounty is not eroded and that the full benefit is passed on to the farmers. It  is  interesting to note that the price of superphosphate in Australia without bounty is one of the lowest in the world. 
The honourable member quite properly said that it is all very well to be paying the bounty but might this not be a shield behind which the industry is either making higher profits or decreasing its efficiency of production. This is a fair question. The answer I give him now is not conclusive but I think it is persuasive. There is no sign that the industry is sheltering behind the bounty and becoming inefficient. For example, the average price paid in the United States in 1970 for superphosphate was $46.42 per ton as against $27.25 per ton in Australia, or $15.25 with the bounty. So the comparison would be $46.42 as against $15.25 per ton. I am not saying that that conclusively proves anything but it does give an indication of the true position in the 2 countries. I understand that only 2 other countries are known to have a lower price which indicates that the Australian producer has some level of efficiency. The honourable member for Riverina asked me 3 questions. Firstly, he asked whether the farmer is getting the full $12 and then said that some people were saying that he gets only 50 per cent of it. I asked him who were the 'some people'. It was a genuine question and he cited no authority except himself. I do not dispute that he is an authority but I think it should be exposed that he could not call anybody other than his eminent self to support that statement. 
I am able to assure the House that the Department of Customs and Excise investigates all price variations. The investigations are carried out by fully qualified accountants who examine the accountancy and costing records of the producer. So far as is possible I give the honourable member for Riverina and the House the assurance that my Department is satisfied that the full benefit does go to the farmer. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  interject to say that they certainly got the full1 bounty in his electorate. Perhaps the honourable member for Murray makes more inquiries or inquiries in greater depth than does the honourable member for Riverina on these matters, but at least he is satisfied. The honourable member for Riverina made some reference to a major stockpile and said that, therefore, there should be a reduction in price. I am unable to follow his reasoning that because there is a large stockpile of a raw material the price of the finished product must fall. I am afraid there must be a step in his logic which completely eluded me. Perhaps he might like to follow up that point later. The rock was purchased by the manufacturers from the British Phosphate Commission and the agreed price plus the cost of servicing the stockpile preclude any price reduction. Perhaps I am not understanding the honourable gentleman as well as I should. 
The third question he asked me was whether the farmers were making optimum use, as distinct from maximum use, of the fertiliser. I was fascinated to hear his cot league, the honourable member for Dawson, say that in some areas some soils needed 25 cwt of superphosphate. 
This was a fascinating point of philosophy raised by the honour able member for Riverina when he said we should be looking at this. If he were sitting in his seat,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would ask your indulgence so that he could interject. I want to know - and I am sure that my friends in the Australian Country Party want to know - whether, if by some mischance his Party was in government, it would determine in its socialistic way how much superphosphate should be applied to certain types of paddocks. As the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  stated, surely the farmer is the best judge of that. The honourable member for Mallee may be right or the honourable member for Riverina may be right as to who is the better judge, the farmer or a bureau. Surely the fundamental principle in this matter is whether the honourable member for Riverina is taking away the right of choice from the farmer. Should some bureaucratic body say to the farmer: 'Under these circumstances you cannot use superphosphate'? Is that what the honourable member for Riverina is saying? 
I think Hansard will record that the honourable gentleman, when he was speaking, said something a little different from what he has just said. 

 Mr- Armitage -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I raise a point of order. The Minister has invited the honourable member for Riverina to interject, which is contrary to the Standing Orders. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of stage 1 of a central hospital service complex, Canberra. 
The proposal involves the provision of a central linen service and central sterilising service for 1,500 beds with support engineering facilities, staff amenities and transport facilities. The works comprise stage 1 of a complex to cater for 3,000 beds. A site for the complex has been reserved in the Grace industrial area, 4 miles north of Civic Centre. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4.865m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As promised I shall take a few moments only of the Committee's time. I compliment the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  upon the remarks that he made concerning marihuana and the sincerity that he showed in making them, although I join with my colleague, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  in vigorously and violently disagreeing with him in his views and deploring the views that he has put. The only other matter on which I want to comment, because of the shortage of time, is that raised by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I believe that the honourable member has done the House a service in raising this perennial problem of companies and people gambling on budgetary items. As an aside - I do not think, it is unimportant - I deplore the way in which he has done it, and I want him to know that, person to person. If he wants to interject and ask me why I deplore it I shall tell him, but I suggest that he may not want to do so. 
The honourable member knows. Last week in the House the honourable member asked me whether there had been any basic change in procedures, to which I replied that there had not been. The situation is that every year companies and individuals gamble on what will be in the Budget. Every person who takes excisable products out of bond takes a punt. If he takes goods out he takes a punt on whether excise will be increased, knowing that if he did take them out and excise did not go up he could sustain a heavy loss because of the interest on the money. Big money is involved. In the case of petrol another element is involved in loss by evaporation. Over the years some people and companies have had their fingers burnt badly, and in other years they have had a windfall. But gambling is not limited to the Budget. 
I think everybody gambles. I think some of us would gamble oy buying a little more grog for our cellars before Budget time if we suspected that there would be an increase, or we might buy cigarettes and other commodities. The same thing happens when there is a reference before the Tariff Board. If people suspect that tariffs will be increased they place their overseas orders accordingly. The same applies also when there are references to the Special Advisory Authority. Some people gamble on the rates of income tax that will apply. Some fortunate taxpayers - not parliamentarians - can regulate their amount of assessable income by including sales of land. Primary producers may anticipate taxes being increased in the following year and include income earned but not received to achieve a tax saving. The punting game has been going on since Federation. 
This year, as in all or most years, there was punting on all excisable items - all of them. To cite some figures for the honourable member for Robertson, excise of $lm in excess of the normal pattern was paid on beer, but in the Budget the excise on beer was not increased. On spirits $1.8m more than usual was paid. Companies were out of pocket beyond their normal outlay on spirits because the excise on spirits was not increased. The outlay on petrol above the average excise paid to the Department of Customs and Excise was $14.6m, and on other petroleum products it was $lm. The figures which 1 am stating relate to the 5 days before 17th August, when the Budget was brought down. For cigarettes and tobacco S3 1.9m more than average was paid. 
In regard to the so-called saving on petrol which the companies might have made, I announced to the Press on the day on which the honourable member for Robertson asked the question a figure of SI. 3m which I said was approximate. I now have the figures from outposts in Australia, and I think the honourable member would realise that it is a most complex matter to get these figures from all over Australia because there are many outposts. The net savings to petrol companies were approximately $1.9m. We have investigated the legality of this action, but what these people do is perfectly legal. These products are theirs and they are in their bond stores. We can do nothing if they say to the Department of Customs and Excise: 'We want our products. Here is the excise cheque.' 
I think it is fair to say that one of my predecessors put to the Government his concern on this. The Government was sympathetic but ran into the barrier of legal problems. When I became Minister I was concerned about it. I investigated it because I was interested in the English legislation, which the honourable member for Robertson might know about. The English authorities can and do prevent this. To put it in simple terms, I am told by my legal friends that they can do it for the very good reason that Britain does not have a constitution and we have. However, I conclude as I began by saying that the honourable member for Robertson has done a service to the Parliament by raising this matter. I am still looking at ways and mean's - not necessarily legislative ways and means - of stopping this practice which I depore not only because it prevents the Government from collecting revenue - that is perhaps bad enough - but because the saving of revenue is not passed on to the consumer. Frankly, the latter aspect is the one that bothers me most. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Education and Science 
Proposed expenditure, $134,134,000. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to the Parliament: 
I present the following petition: 
To The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least$5m immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in dutybound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents ofVictoria, respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Government grant a further $10m immediate aid to the East Pakistani refugees in India. Your petitioners also humbly pray that the Australian Government take the initiative in urging the instatement of Sheik Mujibur Rahman as the elected leader of his people and the creating of a political climate which will enable the refugees now in India to make a speedy, safe return to their own country. 
And we your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Anula and Wulagi neighbourhoods, Sanderson District, Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The 2 neighbourhoods will provide 1,808 residential block and 22 special sites for services such as schools, parks, shops, flats and service stations. The works comprising the proposal are roadwork and drainage around and within the neighbourhoods, water supply, sewers, electricity, grading of playing fields, construction of ' amenities buildings and an arterial road. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $8.75m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
There are 2 aspects of the honourable gentleman's question which I would prefer not to answer now in courtesy to his colleague who has 2 questions on the notice paper this morning concerning the position in past years. All of what the honourable gentleman has said is true. There have been evasions - if I may use that word - of revenue by producers and manufacturers of excisable products this year to an amount of approximately $5m. As I also mentioned in speaking to the Estimates debate last Thursday evening there were manufacturers of other excisable goods, such as beer and spirts, who gambled as did the petrol companies and the tobacco companies, but lost because the excise on those goods did not go up. I am informed that this is a practice which has gone on almost since federation on the eve of a Budget. The gambling goes on by individual taxpayers who can manoeuvre their disclosable income in anticipation of increased income tax. It goes on when the Tariff Board and Special Advisory reports are about to be released. 
There seems to be nothing we can do legislatively to stop this practice. I have inquired into this matter since my appointment as Minister for Customs and Excise, and I have learned that some years ago a predecessor of mine was so concerned about it that he went to the Government and the Government, being concerned about it in principle, obtained top legal advice and was informed that constitutionally it was not possible to do anything about it in Australia. The reason my predecessor went to the Government, as I understand it, was that there is legislation in the United Kingdom. I am not a lawyer and when I asked why Britain could take action and we could not, the answer, I understood, was that we have a constitution and Britain has not. This is the difficulty that exists. However, as I said in my speech the other night, not only am I concerned at the loss of revenue, I am even more concerned that the savings gained by the gamble taken by these manufacturers are not being passed on to the consumers. I am still examining nonlegislative ways not to stop this practice but perhaps to discourage it. I will report to the House as soon as any possible solution comes up. 
The honourable gentleman is correct. I think that since the late 1950s there has been a prohibition on the export of native fauna - and galahs are classified in this category - without the explicit permission of the Minister for Customs and Excise.- The criteria laid down by the Government relate to total prohibition on, I think, 3 native species - the platypus, the lyre bird and the koala - and for all other native fauna the criterion is that export of species can be approved if it is on a zoo to zoo basis and if research indicates that the zoo to which they are being exported will not deal commercially in them. 
I should like to comment on the apparent, if not real, incongruity of the situation so far as kangaroos are concerned. They come into this question. The incongruity that has occurred to me before is that hundreds of thousands of kangaroos, if not more, are slaughtered in Australia each year and their meat is put into tins and exported, but because of the situation export is not permitted of one or two live kangaroos unless the above criterion is met. This Government policy was the result of very strong representations from wildlife authorities back in the 1950s when export was allowed, and it was shown that cruelties were being inflicted on native fauna. But whether the situation now is completely cured by this attitude, I do not know. We know, for example, that a great number of birds are smuggled out of Australia 'in very cruel' and inhumane circumstances. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of stage 5 extensions, Stokes Hm power station. Darwin. Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the installation of an additional generating set (No. 6), associated boiler plant, auxiliaries, transformer and switchgear, augmentation of the cool? ing water system, construction of a stores building and other minor building and site works. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $5. 85m. 1 table plans of the proposed work. 
 The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, however, this adaptor is unsatisfactory for the threaded forms of couplings used in South 
Australia, and Launceston, Tasmania. Also it is not suitable for connecting to the British Instantaneous Coupling, which is not a threaded coupling. The British Instantaneous Coupling is used in Western Australia and is also fitted to mobile appliances used by the Department of Civil Aviation and the Services Departments throughout Australia and by the Northern Territory Fire Brigade. 
In view of the non-uniformity of couplings in use throughout Australia and with the knowledge of the difficulties of obtaining finance for standardisation of such equipment, the Commonwealth Fire Board did not continue  to  press their proposals to achieve standardisation throughout the Country by the use of this adaptor. 
The matter of financial assistance was not raised by the Commonwealth Fire Board during the period 19th September 1968 to 19th August 1971. 
For the information of honourable members I present a Tariff Board report on grinding wheels of the depressed centre type and cutting-off wheels (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 19th August 1971. 
'For the information of honourable members, I present the report by  Sir Leslie  Melville, K.B.E., appointed by the Commonwealth as Arbiter, on oil industry terms and conditions for refining of indigenous crude oil on behalf of independent marketers. Honourable members will recall that the appointment of  Sir Leslie  Melville as Commonwealth Government Arbiter was announced in my statement to the House on 7th September 1971. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have not seen the transcript of the statement attributed to  Mrs Askin. 
I think it is important to realise the context in which  Sir Leslie  Melville wrote in his report which I tabled yesterday. It was in consequence of a statement which I made in this House on 7th September to solve one particular problem that was flowing from the Government's indigenous oil policy which states basically that oil found in Australia will be refined in Australia. Notwithstanding that requirement, there were marketers who were importing petrol with no refinery capacity in Austraia. It had been reported to me by at least one of these marketers who did not have a refinery that such marketers could not conclude a satisfactory refining deal with the present refiners. Under the terms of the policy I am obliged not to give an export licence unless all negotiations are exhausted. In that context, rather than the Government or myself making an arbitrary judgment the Government decided to appoint an arbiter who would fix a fair and reasonable price in those circumstances, bearing in mind the offer already made and the fact that the marketers did not have a refinery. So I believe that in the general context  Sir Leslie's  report cannot be seen nakedly as a report on what can be a fair and reasonable price of refining per se but on what is a fair and reasonable price of refining in these rather peculiar circumstances. The report has gone to the people negotiating. I believe it would be quite improper at this stage for me, as the Minister administering the indigenous oil policy, to make any comment on the report, because the purpose of the report was to get the parties together to negotiate. I think that any comment from myself as Minister at this stage could prejudice those negotiations between the 2 parties. But I commend the report to the attention of honourable members and ask them to read it in the light of the circumstances which I have just described. 
I do not know that I understand the honourable gentleman's question correctly. My understanding of what  Sir Leslie  said was that the prices set in city and country areas were not in accordance with distribution costs. The honourable member went on to say that there did not seem to be proper accounting methods used when determining prices for bulk sales against other kinds of sales and so on. I think the inference was that the city price was higher than it need be in relation to the country price and that the independent marketers, those who do not have refineries, choose to sell their petrol in that area where the price is higher and distribution costs are lower. In reply to the latter part of the question, now that  Sir Leslie  Melville, an independent arbiter of impeccable authority and ability, has investigated the industry I would hope that the parties involved - the marketers and the refiners - would be able to come to some arrangement in regard to refining in which case the Government on that issue at least would not necessarily need to intervene. This matter will come to the Government only if the negotiations break down, at which point we would be asked to grant an export licence to independent marketers who will be forced to take up their share of the Bass Strait indigenous crude oil and who are at the present time precluded from exporting because of Government policy. 
 The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The mineral content of underground water from bores in current use ranges from 300 to 400 milligrams of total dissolved solids per litre. 
A typical detailed analysis is as follows: 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House amends the Excise Tariff Act in accordance with Excise Tariff Proposals No.I which I tabled on 17th August last. The changes, which operate from 18th August 1971, give effect to the Government's Budget measures within the excise field. Increased duties are imposed on manufactured tobacco products and certain refined petroleum products. A summary of the changes is being circulated. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Comprehensive documentation setting out the changes in rates of duty, together with a glossary of somewhat unusual terms, is now being distributed for the use of honourable members. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The Customs Tariff Bill now before the House provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971 and comprises 3 Schedules. It is complementary, in part, to the Excise Tariff Bill, which I have just introduced, giving effect to the Government's Budget measures in relation to petroleum products and tobacco products. These fiscal changes are set out in the Third Schedule. The First and Second Schedules to the Bill incorporate changes arising from the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations on: Artificial flowers and fruit, etc.; burial and cremation caskets, etc. (New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement); diamond drilling machines; hardened casein, etc. (New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement); pins, hairpins and curling grips; pulp (New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement); refractory products; vegetable oils, and the Special Advisory Authority reports on: cathode ray tube display terminals; cherries, and flue-heated economisers. 
In addition the First Schedule to the Bill implements changes agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments to extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. In relation to the First and Second Schedules I detailed at some length the nature of the changes when I introduced the relevant Tariff Proposals. Other alterations were explained in Press statements made by my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry. I do not propose to reiterate all that was said on those occasions but in order that honourable members and other interested persons may locate earlier speeches on these subjects, I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the relevant references and to incorporate in Hansard, Press statements made by my. colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry in relation to changes made initially by 'Gazette' notices. 
The honourable member would know that anything relating to the restrictive trade practices administration comes within the responsibility of my colleague the Attorney-General who is represented in this place by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The general aspect of the honourable member's question is a matter of Government policy, but I would like to make the following points: As I explained in an answer last week, I think, to the honourable member for Warringah,  Sir Leslie  Melville's report was deliberately framed in a peculiar set of circumstances involving the dispute between the independent marketers and the refiners over a price to refine Bass Strait crude oil because of the Government's indigenous oil policy which demands that crude oil found in Australia will be refined in Australia. So as  Sir Leslie  implies, or I think states specifically in his report, this is a special report about a special set of circumstances, and to that extent I do not know how reasonable is the assumption in the honourable member's question that this is a fair price for the industry. However, proceeding from that and allowing for  Sir Leslie's  price, adding to it the excise and storage and other costs, the price exrefinery would be 33c a gallon. Allowing a mark-up by the retailer - the corner garage - of about 8c, which I understand is about usual, that would mean that the price charged would be about 41c. 
As the Minister for Customs and Excise, I am not competent to determine whether 8c is a fair and reasonable mark-up on the basic cost of the petrol refined plus duty. I have no method of determining the cost of distribution ex-refinery or advertising costs. I have no way of determining the difficulties of transport to country areas. Indeed, one would wonder how profitable refining is when one reads annual reports such as those from Boral Ltd or Ampol Petroleum Ltd who say they are having extreme difficulty in providing a reasonable return on shareholders' funds. The honourable member should be commended for bringing to the House facts which are essentially correct, but it is a matter for his judgment and anyone else's judgment, as to whether a fair and reasonable mark-up is being made in the circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter of drug research is primarily one for my colleague the Minister for Health. At this stage no funds are specifically available to the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence to finance drug research. 
I understand, however, that on the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council, funds for drug research are made available by the Government for approved research projects. In such cases each application for research funds is examined on its merits. Specific amounts are not set aside for research into drug abuse. 
The Commonwealth does not allocate funds to the States for financing specific drug prevention activities. However, for the years 1970-71 and 1971-72 the Commonwealth has made available a total of one million dollars for use in programmes designed to educate all sectors of the community on the dangers of drug abuse. The greater proportion of this money has been allocated for approved drug education activities being undertaken by the States. 
The fund is being used to finance such drug education activities as seminars, conferences and training and in the purchase of equipment such as projectors, recorders and materials for use in connection with these activities. 
Oil) To ensure that the funds are being used in the best possible way, an education committee has been established to integrate, co-ordinate, encourage and advise on education activities on drug abuse. This committee is made up of experts in drug education and other fields who can advise on activities of this kind. 
The honourable gentleman takes a continuing and sustained interest in this matter. He has made representations to me on two or three occasions, on some of which he has sent on complaints about the quality of urea being sold to Australian primary producers. Urea comes from 2 sources - from imports and from local production, and together with sodium nitrate imported from Chile it attracts the subsidy of $80 a ton, as mentioned by the honourable member. The subsidy is meant to be passed on to the purchaser and the Department of Customs and Excise constantly oversees the manufacture of urea firstly, to ensure that the subsidy is passed on to the primary producer for whom it was intended and secondly, to make investigations as to the quality of the urea. If there is any deterioration in its quality, further consideration is given as to whether the subsidy should be paid. If, however, the honourable gentleman or any other honourable gentleman has specific instances of the quality of the urea having deteriorated I would be interested to hear of them and will have them looked into immediately. 
1 have no desire whatsoever to do the last thing that the honourable member has suggested. 
However, I will gladly delegate that function to the honourable member for La Trobe if he would so wish, or even to the honourable member for Sturt, although in his case I think it would be far too late to do any good. I am not aware of any flood of pornographic literature that is coming into the country. There have been some complaints about certain types of material with lurid covers being exhibited in book stalls, particularly in Melbourne. If honourable members will forgive the cliche, sometimes you can never judge a book entirely by its cover in this context. However, the general situation is that the Victorian police have acted in accordance with the Victorian law in this matter to restrict the sale of these kinds of books, and I understand that certain prosecutions are being so considered by the Chief Secretary's Department in Victoria. To my knowledge, no bookstalls referred to by the honourable gentleman are displaying goods which are in fact prohibited imports or which have not been approved by the Department of Customs and Excise. But to allay his mind I can assure him that my Department, in conjunction with the State police, constantly keeps a check on this sort of thing. 
 I present the Tariff Board's report on the following subject: 
Track for tractors. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria, respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Government grant a further $10 million immediate Aid to the East Pakistani refugees in India. Your petitioners also humbly pray that the Australian Government take the initiative in urging the instatement of Sheik Mujibur Rahman as the elected leader of his people and the creating of a political climate which will enable the refugees now in India to make a speedy, safe return to their own country. 
And we your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems- ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in 
India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the 
Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which  was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to parliament. Construction of primary and pre-schools at Bradshaw (Alice Springs) and Nakara (Darwin), Northern Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of 2 school complexes, each to accommodate 800 primary and infant pupils and 100 pre-school pupils. The estimated cost of the Nakara school is $1. 275m and the Bradshaw school $1.2m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work and has recommended construction as proposed. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 22 (1971). Customs Tariff Proposals No. 23 (1971) Customs Tariff Proposals No. 24 (1971) 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971. Proposal No. 23 implements the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations in its report on track for tractors. The new duties will operate from tomorrow. The Tariff Board recommended duties of 20 per cent general tariff and 10 per cent preferential tariff on complete track shoe assemblies and on pins, bushes, links and link assemblies when imported separately. On track shoes imported separately the Board recommended that existing duties of 74 per cent general tariff and free preferential tariff be retained. 
In its report the Tariff Board noted that pins and bushes had been imported at prices significantly lower than the stated current domestic values. The Board considered that continuation of sales at prices below normal values in the exporting countries would cause injury to Australian industry. By 'Gazette' notice tomorrow pins and bushes being parts for track shoe assemblies exported to Australia on and after 1st December will become subject to dumping duty where sales are made to Australia at export free on board prices which are below current domestic values in the country of export. Long term normal values will be established after overseas inquiries, which are now in course, are completed. Proposals Nos 22 and 24 reduce duties on certain accessory items for diamond drilling machines and on sheets of vulcanised fibre. The reductions are in accordance with the relevant Tariff Board reports and have retroactive effect. Details of the tariff changes are currently being distributed to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Cigarette and tobacco companies paid, in the 5 working days prior to the Budget, $3 1.9m Excise duty in excess of the average weekly excise payments on tobacco products during the previous 3 months. 
If the companies had paid duty on the quantities represented by this$3 1.9m after the Budget, additional duty payable would have been $3 . 4m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for firearms control have not met to discuss a set of revised standards for safety testing of imported firearms. 
In an answer I gave to the honourable member on 30th September 1971 I mentioned that I had instigated a formal meeting to consider a draft set of revised standards. This was to be a meeting of representatives of the firearms trade, shooting organisations and officers of the Commonwealth Police Force and the Department of Customs and Excise. 
The meeting was held in Canberra on 30th September 1971 and the standards considered were, in fact, revised tests for the purpose of safety testing of imported firearms to determine whether or not their importation is prohibited under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. 
Agreement was reached on the majority of the revised tests. Matters which were not resolved are being re-examined by the Commonwealth Police and the Department of Customs and Excise. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand the Tariff Board has completed its public inquiries. 
No. 
See 2. 
Anti-dumping cash securities are presently being collected by the Department of Customs and Excise. Should the Board find that antidumping action is not justified the honourable member can rest assured that the earliest possible action will be taken to process the report so that the cash security action can be discontinued and refunds of deposits on past shipments made. Alternatively should the Board find dumping has occurred causing not insubstantial injury to Australian producers release of the report would not be made until printed reports were available. Honourable members will recognise my reluctance to seek to have this report expedited at the expense of other reports equally important to other interested parties. 
Television Programmes: Station TVW 7  (Question No. 3817) 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investi gation and report: Construction of a road to the East Alligator River area, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the construction of a 20 ft sealed road between Mount Bundey and Yourmill Waterhole near Mudginbarry turnoff, including erection of a bridge over the South Alligator River, and the widening of the road between Middlepoint turnoff and Mount Bundey to 20 ft seal. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4.4m. I table a plan showing the location of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 31st May 1972 of customs duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff proposals introduced into this House in the Budget Session. Honourable members will be aware a tariff debate involving Customs Tariff Bills Nos 2 and 3 will take place before this session concludes. I therefore thought it appropriate to hold over these proposals and hence full discussion of the Tariff Board reports on which they are based until the next session. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Customs Act to strengthen its provisions relating to the prosecution of offences involving drugs of dependence. At the outset I would like to pay tribute to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and his staff and indeed to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  for the assistance they have given me and my Department in drafting this Bill. 
Briefly the proposed, amendments include separate penalties for the offence of simple possession as distinct from the offence of possession of a trafficable quantity of drugs. A new provision for the possession of drugs reasonably suspected of having been illicitly imported is also included. I am sure that all honourable members share my concern regarding the dangers that drug abuse already poses for the Australian community. But the present problem, serious though it is, will seem quite insignificant if we, by neglect, permit a drug explosion similar to that which exists in some other countries, to occur in Australia. This Bill is yet another step being undertaken by the Government in an endeavour to prevent Australian citizens being exposed to this dreadful traffic. 
No one can exactly measure the extent of drug abuse in Australia. Certainly much drug abuse must go undetected; possibly even unsuspected except by close relatives and friends, However, the tremendous increase in seizures, prosecutions and robberies involving drugs is significant enough. The danger signs have certainly been alarming enough to engender this Government's support of whatever prophylactic measures can be taken to afford the Australian community the maximum protection from those unscrupulous people who are prepared to sponsor drug abuse for their own personal gain. The Commonwealth has sponsored a number of measures which are designed to achieve the maximum national effort in the prevention of drug abuse. I have in mind the creation of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence. This Committee, comprising Commonwealth and State health and enforcement officials, is responsible to Ministers for the coordination of all agencies engaged in combatting drug abuse. Moreover the Commonwealth has made available to date a total of Sim for drug education. 
My responsibility as Minister for Customs and Excise is in relation to the international drug traffic particularly the importation and exportation of drugs. Here again a great deal has been achieved on this Government's initiative. I should mention in this context that the creation of the Narcotics Bureau, the training of officers by overseas agencies, the development of international liaison particularly with South East Asian countries, and the convening of a seminar and a conference to further foster international operational co-operation are steps that have already been taken. Despite these measures imported drugs continue to supply a substantial proportion of the illicit market in Australia. Aside from the Narcotics Bureau almost 1,000 officers are engaged daily in prevention and detection activities. Yet it is believed that not more than 15 per cent of drugs smuggled into Australia are detected. At a recent meeting of the United Nations Narcotics Commission it was the consensus that not more than 10 per cent of drugs involved in the world illicit traffic are being seized. 
There are clear signs that the drug traffic in Australia is being organised on a highly professional basis. Imports in commercial cargo, involvement by professional criminals, the use of highly sophisticated and expensive smuggling techniques, and the employment of outwardly respectable people as drug couriers, all point to the intervention of professional groups. The involvement of these groups is not surprising when one examines the financial rewards they can achieve. For instance one LSD tablet costing, as low as 20c overseas can sell for $8 to $12 on the illicit market in Australia. One pound of marihuana, costing approximately $10 overseas, will sell, by the time it reaches the user in Australia for almost $1,000. For hashish, the resin from the marihuana plant, you can double this amount. Furthermore, a pound of heroin purchased overseas for $3,000 will sell, by the time it is cut and sold to Australian addicts, for almost $100,000. 
Obviously if the drug traffic in Australia is to be countered firm measures are required by both the Commonwealth and the States. The proposed provisions are primarily intended to strengthen the hands of those engaged in the fight against people involved in drug smuggling and to give a clear indication to all, including the courts, of the gravity the Commonwealth attaches to offences involving drug trafficking. I have previously expressed my disappointment at the kind of penalties being awarded by the courts. In the past 2 years, of 157 cases involving significant quantities of drugs, 69 were merely fined and 61 received jail sentences, the average jail sentence being 17 months. I give this information to honourable members to indicate the lack of seriousness with which some courts are apparently treating this problem. 
In detail clause  2  of the Bill includes a number of definitions which are necessary for the purposes of the amendments incorporated in the clauses that follow. The more significant of these definitions relate to narcotic substance, narcotic goods being preparations and the like which contain a narcotic substance and trafficable quantity, the unauthorised possession of which exposes the offender to the maximum penalty for drug offences under the Customs Act. Clauses  3, 4  and  6  are consequential for the introduction of a new definition, namely narcotic goods. 
Clause  5  of the Bill limits section  "&gt;33  of the Act to offences involving prohibited imports to goods o'.her than drugs of dependence. Because of the separate and higher penalties that apply to drugs of dependence some virtue is seen in their being the subject of a separate section, that is, section  233b.  Clause  7,  sub-paragraphs 
, (c) and (d), merely make it clear that section  233b  applies to exportation as well as importation. Clause  7,  sub-paragraph 
, creates a new offence for. possession of drugs of dependence where there are reasonable grounds (or believing that those drugs were illicitly imported. 
A major legal difficulty encountered by officers of the Narcotics Bureau in bringing drug traffickers to justice is the necessity to produce direct evidence that drugs seized have been imported into Australia. This problem occurs despite the fact that in many instances the drugs concerned exhibit foreign markings or words and obviously have been manufactured in an overseas country. Courts have recently dismissed  4  cases because direct evidence of importation was not available. In one of these cases an admission by the defendant that the drugs had been illegally imported by another person was ruled inadmissable as evidence of importation. 
As a result of these decisions a further  13  cases have been withdrawn on legal advice. Since March  1971,  investigations involving" more than  50  major cases where direct evidence of importation was not available have been referred to State police authorities with the request that prosecution be launched under State legislation. This has resulted io unnecessary duplication in investigation; wasteful use of resources; divided jurisdiction in some prosecutions; surrender of Commonwealth participation necessary to pursue investigations where international trafficking is involved; and denial to the Commonwealth of the right of appeal when inadequate penalties have been imposed under State legislation. This amendment will enable Narcotics Bureau agents to proceed with both investigations and prosecutions where the courts can be convinced that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the drugs concerned were, in fact, illicitly imported. 
Clause  7,  sub-paragraph (e) and  1(c),  include defence provisions which should reasonably be available to a defendant charged with an offence under this section. Clause  7  (2) merely limits the application of the section to drugs of dependence. Clause  8  of the Bill introduces separate offences for the possession of trafficable quantities of drugs and for simple possession where lesser quantities are involved. The penalties are: For offences involving trafficable quantities of drugs - a fine not exceeding  $4,000,  or imprisonment for not more than  10  years, or both; and for offences involving less than trafficable quantities of drugs - a fine not exceeding  $2,000,  or imprisonment for not more than  2  years, or both. 
The National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence recommended that penalty provisions of this kind should be introduced throughout the Commonwealth. Most States have, in fact, introduced these penalty provisions. Clause  8,  sub-paragraph (b), ensures that cases must be taken to the higher courts where the prosecution considers that a serious offence has been committed. Under clause  8,  subparagraph (d), the defendant is afforded the opportunity to satisfy the court that he is not engaged in the trafficking of drugs. Moreover, in keeping with existing provisions, the defendant can always elect to be tried in the higher court, that is, by judge and jury. 
I believe honourable members will readily see the purpose of this Bill. It is clearly intended to ensure that the drug trafficker, as distinct from the drug user, is exposed to the higher penalty. Nevertheless, in the drafting of these provisions care has been taken to ensure that proper safeguards exist for the rights of the defendant. The Government sees this Bill as a necessary measure to step up the war against those enemies of society who are prepared to seek wealth through the misery and degradation of their fellow men. Law enforcement must play an important role in the control of drug abuse, but it is not in itself a solution to the problem. No matter how active the Government is, how efficient our law enforcement agencies, how effective our education programmes, the answer to the problems of drug abuse lies with the community itself. It is at the grass roots level of our society - in families, in particular with parents-7-that the responsibility lies, and where ultimately the possible solution to this problem will be found. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The figures immediately below show the excise duty paid on petroleum products, tobacco products and potable spirits, in the five working days prior to the 1970 Budget in excess of the average weekly payments made during the previous three months. The figures also show the additional duty which would have been payable had the quantities represented by the above average payments been cleared after the Budget. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a Tariff Board report on shot and grit of chilled cast iron (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 30th September 1971. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 1), the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2), the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) and the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 3), as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' in an article by  Mr Jim  Quirk on 15th November alleging that I was believed to be an associate member of a ginger group working within my Party against the Prime Minister. 1 would have thought that my record stands for itself as far as loyalty to my Party and its Leader is concerned. The allegation is baseless. 
in reply -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I sincerely thank the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  for his courtesy in giving me 2 or 3 minutes to reply so that we may have a vote before the suspension of the sitting. If 1 may briefly comment on one or two matters, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has exhorted the House to support the Opposition in voting against the Excise Tariff Bill as a gesture towards rectifying some of the alleged ills of the economy, and so on. I am sure it will not come as a surprise to the honourable member to know that the Government does not accept his suggestion. These Bills are essentially machinery matters and this debate is hardly the one in which to discuss the success or otherwise of the general Budget aims and strategies. My colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is charged with this responsibility and will as circumstances require bring pertinent matters to notice for discussion. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  raised what is to him an apparent anomaly. He wanted to know why street sweepers were exempt from diesel fuel tax while street flushers were not. The honourable member along with other honourable members from both sides of this House have made representations to me on this matter. As the honourable member rightly says, this is not a question of my arbitrary judgment; it is a question of law as to whether in fact street flushers are road vehicles. As the honourable member knows, I have decided that street sweepers should not be subject to this tax because the legal view is that they are vehicles which do not carry goods. However -and I do not push this too hard - street flushers are basically, apparently, trucks equipped to carry water for the purpose of flushing roadways. The legal experts have advised that therefore they cannot be exempted from this tax. 
The philosophical point raised by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  was that excise collected from petrol, and I suppose from diesel fuel, should be applied to the improvement of roadways and given back to the States for this purpose. I would have thought that that is a most fallacious argument. I would be surprised if many economist would support the view that tax raised in any particular area must be spent in that area. It is one of the oldest fallacies of taxation philosophy that I know of. Without trying to be too facetious one could then say to the proponents of this proposition that all excise gained from the sale of beer should be spent on beer drinkers; that all excise from whisky should be spent on whisky drinkers; that all excise collected on playing cards should be spent to evangelise further the beauties of bridge as a game. What would we do with the tax collected on snuff? Would we spend it on retired colonels? I would like to ask honourable members opposite what they would do with tax gathered from the sale of con traceptives. The mind boggles at the possibilities. I repeat that the argument put forward by the Opposition is fallacious. 
The honourable member for Robertson referred to excise on petrol and cigarettes, as did the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I have publicly commended the honourable member for Robertson for raising this matter. I have stated that it was under consideration. I now inform the House that I do have some concrete proposals which are now under consideration and I would hope to be able to inform the House about them at an early date. In regard to petrol prices and the position of the South Australian Prices Commissioner, the honourable member would be aware that the petrol companies by convenience accept the South Australian Prices Commissioner's ruling - and this is not so well known - the New South Wales Prices Commission ruling, and the companies accept those prices throughout Australia. As the honourable member knows, this is a matter which is quite beyond the control or administration of this Parliament. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
1 move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a sewerage reticulation and treatment plant, Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the installation of a gravity sewerage reticulation system with branches for house connections and the installation of a pondage treatment plant. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $900,000. 1 table a plan showing the locations of the various components' of the proposed work. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a Tariff Board report on toluene and xylene (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 7th September 1971. 
The 57* per cent duty is not applied by the Department of Customs and Excise; it is applied by this Parliament. This is the rate of duty passed by the Parliament for application to exercise books as distinct from text books. Text books are admitted duty free and those text books manufactured in Australia attract a bounty. On the other hand, exercise books carry a 57i per cent duty and do not attract a bounty. This situation was reported to my Department by members of the local publishing industry - those producing exercise books - which discovered that they were having the worst of 2 worlds, namely, that some competition from overseas was coming in duty free whilst some exercise books were not attracting a bounty for local manufacture. 
I might explain that exercise books or text books are now not like they were when the honourable gentleman and I went to school. There are now books in which provision is made almost on every second line for writing in answers. Therefore it is a question of doubt as to whether they should be classified as text books or exercise books. In questions of doubt on classification, because Australia has regard to the Brussels tariff such questions are referred to the Nomenclature Committee of the Customs Co-operation Council and international body, and it has ruled unequivocally that this type of book is an exercise book and therefore must carry the 571 per cent duty. That is the factual situation. The Department of Customs and Excise has no alternative whatsoever other than to act. Redress is possible, as would be well known. Representations could be made to my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry for a possible reference to the Tariff Board, or other action might be taken. Because of the representations that have been made by the honourable member, the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Moreton I have undertaken to discuss this matter with my colleague and to have a look at the problem. 
The honourable gentleman's question concerns a complex matter. The original premise upon which he based the question is not accurate. The transportation component in the price for indigenous crude from Bass Strait fixed by the Government is only one of several components. There are many other components in that price of $2.06 a barrel. Overall, I think it would be correct to say that because of the Government's indigenous oil policy and its pricing policy Ampol is not disadvantaged. It is no worse off now than it was before the introduction of the Government's indigenous oil policy. However, one must concede on the question of cost of transportation that it is obviously more expensive to Ampol to transport its crude from Bass Strait to Brisbane where it has a refinery together with Amoco whereas other companies can refine in either Melbourne or Sydney. The method of pricing oil was determined or recommended by a Tariff Board report, I think in 1965, which laid down the principles upon which the price at which oil sold at points around Australia should be determined. 1 have had several meeting with Ampol representatives. They have been to see the Prime Minister. They have put certain propositions to us. My last understanding is that Ampol is now negotiating with other oil companies because this differential can be attended to in other ways by the buy and sell arrangements. As the honourable member would know, the companies interchange both refined and non-refined products. My last understanding is that these negotiations are still proceeding, and while they are there is no point in the Govern ment interfering in private arrangements between companies. Those buy and sell arrangements are surely private matters for the individual companies concerned. 
There are increasing quantities of cannabis, both in the form of marihuana and hashish, being brought into the country. Seizures over the last 3 years vindicate this statement. In 1969 we seized approximately 50,000 grams: in 1970 we seized approximately 100,000 grams; and to the end of August of this year we have seized approximately 135,000 grams. It is estimated - and this is the United Nations figure - that this quantity represents about 20 per cent to IS per cent of the total amount of marihuana or cannabis which various people try to smuggle into this country. 
The Government's activities have been to increase the size and efficiency of the Department's narcotics bureau. In addition we have greater co-operation with State police forces which are now working magnificently with us. As an Australian Government we have taken the initiative in convening an international conference of 13 Asian nations which was held in Australia last week or the week before last. Further, the Government has hypothecated 
Sim over the last year and this year for  a  national drug education campaign to point up the dangers of smoking and using marihuana and other drugs. 
I believe that the Government's action in spending Sim of taxpayers' money has been overwhelmingly supported by the taxpayers themselves. I would have thought that any statements made by irresponsible people in an irresponsible manner, even if they are doctors, do nothing but undermine that position. 
I am not an expert on the capabilities of this particular company in refining petrol but I do commend it for its excellence in lobbying. I have not personally seen a copy of the telegram. I understand from my departmental head that a copy has been delivered to the Department and that it is a long telegram. I have asked my departmental officers whether there is anything in the telegram which would indicate to them that there was anything incorrect in what I said yesterday in answer to the honourable member for Lang. I have been assured by my Department that everything I said in my answer yesterday is correct. I am interested to have a look at the telegram but, as I say, I have not seen it at this point. 
 i  move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of stage 5 extensions. Stokes Hill Power Station, Darwin. 
The work comprises provision of a 23.5 mw turbo alternator set. an oil fired boiler, auxiliaries, transformer and switchgear; augmentation of the cooling water system; construction of a stores building, extensions to the office annexe and improvements lo fire protection air-conditioning and various site facilities. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $5. 85m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work in the reference and has recommended its construction. 
With regard to the Committee's observations and recommendations concerning air pollution and operation of the station, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  assures that his Department will continue to apply appropriate measures to guard against excessive smoke emissions and will look into the matter of preference for fuels of Australian origin with a low sulphur content. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a brucella vaccine testing laboratory at Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposal involves the construction  of a  Brucella Vaccine Testing Laboratory in  the  Canberra suburb  of  Narrabundah. It includes  a  gate house and  a  building  to  contain an animal breeding house and a testing laboratory. The proposal will be the firs: stage of a permanent building complex for the National Biological Standards Laboratory. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $870,000. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work in the reference and upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The octane rating of petrol has no bearing on the rate of duty or on any other requirement of Customs or Excise legislation and consequently, no direct checks are made of this facet of oil company operations. 
Petrol sold at retail outlets has passed from Customs control and consequently any checks in respect of quality or quantity at the point of sale would be a matter for State or Local Authorities. 
No quality checks are required to be made by officers of the Department of Customs and Excise in respect to potable spirits and beer after duty has been paid and the liquors have passed from Customs control. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Delegation List for trie conference was as follows: 
by leave - Honourable members will recall that in reply to a recent question in the Parliament I indicated that in accordance with a decision of the Customs Co-operation Council in Brussels as to the appropriate tariff classification of certain work books the Department of .Customs and Excise was obliged to classify these books in a category that carried 574 per cent duty. At the same time I said I would take up the question of the level of duties appropriate to such books with my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  He has agreed with me that such a rate of duty is inappropriate to books that are, in effect, extensions of conventional text books - at least until the Tariff Board has presented its report on printed books and other products of the printing industry and the Government has had an opportunity to examine the whole question in depth. We are agreed it will be appropriate that 1 use the reserve powers of the Customs Tariff and make such work books a substitute for ordinary text books and thus free of import duty. They will qualify for bounty if printed in Australia subject to the usual conditions governing the grant of bounty. I have today signed a substitute notice to this effect. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House lake note of the paperDebate  (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I had not previously seen the newsletter mentioned, but a copy has been obtained and examined, particularly as to the textile sample card reproduced in the letter. The heading of the card is 'Wollen Piece Goods' but the composition stated in the body of the card is viscose 60 per cent and polyamide 40 per cent. I have ascertained that this card was one of a number forwarded from Mainland China to a Melbourne importer, all similarly headed but with varying compositions shown on the cards. Some samples were alleged to contain wool, others not. 
Customs analyses of the very small samples available have confirmed the actual composition as shown in the body of the cards. 
The Customs Declaration accompanying the package of samples described the contents as Samples of Woollen Piece Goods'. As samples of negligible value, the package was released without payment of duty and most probably without examination. 
lt has been ascertained that the company receiving the samples in question has not made any commercial importations as a result of these samples. 
However, an examination of entries made during the last twelve months for piece goods alleged to be of wool or containing wool, from Mainland China, has shown only four such importations, these from the exporter supplying the samples in question. 
Two of the importations were properly, invoiced as 45 per cent wool and 55 per cent polyester. Both were imported by manufacturers, who were fully aware of the composition. 
 The other two importations were to Sydney over nine months ago. In these instances the shipments were invoiced as woollen piece goods but recent analysis has confirmed that each contained 52 per cent polyester and 48 per cent wool. This composition docs not alter the rate of duty paid. The piece goods were correctly marked and have been offered by the importer under the correct composition. 
I might add for the honourable member's information that opportunity is regularly taken to confirm the application of the required marking to piece goods. No such goods from Mainland China have been detected as unmarked or incorrectly marked in the past twelve months, lt is 
As at end October 1971: also a continuing function of the Department of Customs and Excise to ensure by, every means available, that the correct duty is paid upon all goods imported. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested is set out in a table sent to the honourable member today. In general the number of apprenticeships made available by the Department of Works each year are filled except in the case of the Northern. Territory and the Australian Capital Territory where a few apprenticeships may not be filled because of the lack of suitable applicants. 
140. 
I do not know what newspapers the honourable member has read, but I am mystified as to the premise of his question. Speaking for myself and I am sure for the Government and for every honourable member on this side of the House we are totally opposed to the legalisation of marihuana. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Bill now before the House provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971 and relates to changes introduced into Parliament since 24th August last year. The first 5 schedules to this Bill incorporate changes introduced into the House before it rose at the conclusion of the 1971 Budget session. These changes stem from Tariff Board Reports on chain and parts therefor, of iron or steel; lightweight cotton sheeting; malleable cast iron pipe fittings; plastic products, etc.; steam engines, boilers, etc., in relation to Hue-heated economisers; track for tractors; trout; woven shirts, etc.; and the Special Advisory Authority report on woven man-made fibre fabrics. 
The remaining schedules to the Bill relate to changes included in the Tariff Proposals which I introduced a moment ago. These arise from Tariff Board reports on mining, metallurgical etc., machinery; steam engines, boilers and power units; tetraethyl-lead, tetramethyl-lead and antiknock preparations based thereon; and yeast. The Bill also makes changes agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand governments to extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. Some tariff changes of a purely administrative nature are also included. 
At the time each of the various Tariff Proposals was introduced relating to alterations now incorporated in the Bill the nature of the changes was explained at some length. In order that honourable members may locate earlier speeches on these subjects, I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the relevant references. 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Tetraethyl-lead, telramethyl-lead  and ami-knock preparations ba;ed in  tetraeihy-Iead  or tetra.methyllead 
Steam engines, boilers and power units; 
Mining, metallurgical etc., machinery 
Yeast; 
Diacetone  alcohol and certain derivatives thereof (Dumping and Subsidies Act); 
Polyester yarn and tow (Dumping and Subsidies Act); and 
Shotgun and  rimfire  cartridges (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain Tariff Proposals which were moved last year and which constitute part of order of the day No. 58. These Proposals were incorporated in Customs Tariff Bills Nos 2 and 3 of 1971 and Excise Tariff Bill 1.971 which have now been assented to. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The article claims effects which are similar to those mentioned in the questions. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall that the subject of speculative pre-Budget clearances of high duty excisable goods was raised in this House by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in the latter part of last year, lt has been accepted and practised by successive Commonwealth governments that changes in the rates of duty on revenue items become necessary in order that the Commonwealth may meet its financial commitments, lt has also been accepted that where increases in duties take place because of budgetary reasons the price structure of the goods will ultimately reflect these changes. This is a perfectly proper course of action and accords with the right of an individual to make a fair profit on the sale of his goods. 
What I am concerned with, and do not accept, is that Government budgetary action can be exploited by merchants and manufacturers who seize the opportunity to clear abnormally high quantities of goods and. if it happens that the Budget increases excise duties on those goods, are in a position to reap excessive profits to the detriment of Commonwealth revenue and at the direct expense of the consuming public. When speaking on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) I expressed my strong disapproval of the practice and I said on 7th October last that 1 would be looking at ways and means, both legal and administrative, to stop this practice. I also said that an earlier examination of the possibility of legislation against this practice had thrown up legal problems. During the parliamentary recess, the Attorney-General's Department has examined these problems. Advice now given to me is that controlling legislation is possible. My Department is now examining ways and means by which the advice should be put into effect by law. 
Pending this further examination and the introduction of possible enabling legislation to curb pre-Budget speculative clearances, I propose, before the next Commonwealth Budget is introduced, to institute a scheme whereby details are made public of above average clearances of high duty products made in the weeks before the Budget is brought down. This information will be given on the basis of total 'excess' clearances on an individual commodity basis. Should the Budget provide for increases in duties on revenue items the announcement that, for example, IS days supply of a particular commodity has been speculatively cleared in the day or two before the duty increase would alert retailers and the public to the impropriety of a price increase significantly before the expiration of the 15 days. It is also reasonable to assume that State government or industry price-fixing bodies would take note of such an announcement in relation to the timing of any price variations. I present the following paper: 
Pre-Budget Speculative Clearances of High Duly Goods - Ministerial Statement, 23rd February 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr  Swartz) proposed: 
That the House  take  note of the paper.  Mr  COHEN (Robertson) (4.6)- I commend the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for making this statement. We are pleased that this matter is now being dealt with. 1 will be interested to see the legislation when it is introduced and, in the interim, the statement prior to the Budget about any large purchases. I would describe the practice that has been going on as being a scandal. I am quite sure that the Minister was unaware that this practice had been going on. I am sure that some of his predecessors are guilty in relation to oil and cigarette companies being able to milch the public of what seems to be some millions of dollars. According to an answer the Minister gave me, the cigarette companies were able to avoid duty of about $3. 4m and the oil companies were able to avoid duty of about $1.3&gt;m. 
It was SI. 9m. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to  3  (1972). 

 Mr Speaker, Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to 3 (1972) which I have just tabled formally place before the Parliament the tariff changes made while the Parliament was in recess and published by notice  in  the Commonwealth Gazette of 30th and 31st December 1971 and 11th February 1 972. Changes arise from the Government's adoption of Tariff Board reports on: 
Tetraethyl-lead, tetramethyl-lead and anti-knock preparations based on tetraethyl-lead or tetramethyllead; 
Steam engines, boilers and power units; 
Mining, metallurgical etc., machinery; and Yeast. 
On tetraethyl-lead, tetramethyl-lead and antiknock preparations based on these chemicals, the Board recommended rates of 171 per cent general tariff and 10 per cent preferential tariff. This results in an increase in duty of 1 0 per cent, by value, on imports from all sources except New Zealand. However, the Board further recommended that as there is no local production at present the new duties should not apply until such time as the proposed local plant had commenced commercial production. Imports will therefore be admitted under by-law until that stage has been reached. 
The Board commented on the possibility of action being taken in Australia to limit the use of lead additives in petrol because of pollution claimed to be caused by emission from motor vehicle exhausts. The Government wishes to make it clear that any future loss of markets because of restrictions on usage of lead additives would be a commercial risk to be carried by the industry. 
In respect of steam engines, boilers and power units the Board has recommended rates of 25 per cent general tariff and 15 per cent preferential tariff but minimum rates on products for which there was no evidence of significant commercial production. Although there is presently no local manufacture of steam turbines and parts, for which minimum rates are proposed, the Board considered production of some components for power station turbines could be a viable proposition. The Government would consider the application of rates of 25 per cent general tariff and 15 per cent preferential tariff to specific steam turbine components if sound proposals are submitted for their production in Australia. 
I turn now to the report on mining, metallurgical, etc., machinery. For the majority of goods covered by this report the Board recommended duties of 20 per cent general tariff and 10 per cent pre ferential tariff. Rates of 30 per cent general tariff and 20 per cent preferential tariff were recommended on certain products including gas generators, furnace burners, augering machines, pressure casting machines, concrete mixers and brick presses. On rolling mills and coal cutting machines the Board recommended that existing duties of71/2 per cent general tariff and free preferential tariff be maintained. 
Because of the large number of products involved it is possible to indicate duty changes only in the broadest of terms. Similar circumstances exist in regard to the report on steam engines, boilers and power units. For more detailed information the attention of honourable members is invited to the comprehensive summary of changes and rates of duty now being distributed. 
In its report on yeast, the Board concluded that the economic and efficient manufacture of compressed bakers' yeast could be sustained on a profitable basis without tariff assistance. The Board therefore recommended duty free admission from all sources. This represents no change in existing duties other than removal of the primage duty of 10 per cent general . tariff and 5 per cent preferential tariff on imports of yeast packed for retail sale. 
Other changes in these Proposals extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies or accelerate the duty phaseout on commodities previously included in that Agreement. Some changes of an administrative nature are also included. 
Honourable members will recall that in 1965 Australia adapted the Brussels Nomenclature to its national Tariff. A new Act was introduced in 1966 having regard to decimal currency and that Act, the Customs Tariff 1966-1971, is the current legislation imposing duties of customs on imported goods. In 1965 Australia was unable to accede to the Convention of Nomenclature for the Classification of Goods in Customs Tariffs and Protocol of Amendment because its Tariff Act did not incorporate one of the Rules (Rule 4) forming part of the international Nomenclature. 
I am glad to say this barrier has been removed as the Customs Co-operation Council has now omitted Rule 4 and made similar alternative provisions to those adopted by Australia in 1965. The Government will deposit a formal instrument of accession in the next few months and my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has the matter in hand. Australia will then have a positive say in rulings by the Council. The Customs Cooperation Council also made a major revision of some of the headings in the Nomenclature - effective from 1st January 1972. These changes up-date the Nomenclature having regard to technological advances and to problems detected by countries of the world in day-to-day customs administration. The changes also involve alterations to the Rules for the Interpretation of the Nomenclature. 
The Rules for the Interpretation of the Nomenclature are most important as it is through these Rules that a common and constant interpretation of the provisions of the tariff items can better be maintained internationally. In order that members of the public and officials might become aware of the changes in the Rules and through usage detect any problems as soon as possible I arranged for the Rules to be published by 'Gazette' notice from 1st January this year. They are included in the Tariff Proposals I have just tabled as Proposals No. 3. 
As I indicated previously, comprehensive drafting changes to some tariff items will bc necessary to align the Australian Tariff with the Brussels Nomenclature modifications. I intend to introduce the tariff changes later this session - at the end of April or early May - and these changes together with the new Rules for the interpretation of the Tariff will operate from 1st July 1972. Legislation to enact the changes will, however, not be introduced until some later date. 
In aligning the Australian Tariff with the new Brussels Nomenclature care is being taken to see that variations in tariff rates are minimal. Any problems detected in the changes should, of course, be reported to the Department of Customs and Excise at Canberra for examination. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The Sydney Office of the New South Wales Branch of the Department of Works was recently lent a machine whose keyboard had been converted to the Dvorak layout and a simple exercise in familiarisation was undertaken. That exercise was small in scope and was never intended to produce results which could be regarded as experimentally reliable or valid. 
See (1) above. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The document, written in 1946, makes claims and statements which conform with those mentioned in the questions. 
Furthermore, the Public Service Board has advised the Department of Works that, following its recent appraisal of the available evidence, including overseas views, and pending the emergence of any new and significant developments in relation to the Dvorak system, it is not proposed to take any further action regarding the possible application of this system in the Commonwealth Service. 
I will answer (his question because the decision was mine when I was Acting Minister for Supply during the absence abroad of the Minister for Supply. The immediate figures do not come to mind, but the facts, as I understood them, were that it was foreign aid granted by this Government in conjunction with the United Nations to help the starving people in Bang! a Desh, people who were in great difficulties. I believe that anybody expending aid has a responsibility to expend that money for (he benefit of people who are suffering. When we came to look at the quotations of the various shipping lines that had tendered - I do not want to be held to this figure - we found, from memory, that the quotation of the Australian shipping line was about 2i times that of the tender which was accepted. 
I felt that we had an explicit duty to make sure that that money was hypothecated in the way in which this Parliament would have intended for the maximum benefit of the people who were suffering. All I can say is that it gave me no pleasure as a Minister to grant this contract to an overseas line to the detriment of the Australian shipping line, but I think it is about time Australian unionists and the Australian Labor Party realised that the excessive wage demands- 
The honourable member is asking for a statement of government policy and to that extent I cannot answer him. However, I can supply some information that the honourable gentleman is seeking concerning the policy of the United States Government in respect of kangaroo skins. It is normal practice for most countries to apply lower rates of duty to raw materials as distinct from finished products. Australia follows that course. For example, we allow raw fur skins to be imported free of duty but tanned skins are subject to the general rate of 27) per cent. However, fortuitously information has been received this morning, which I have not confirmed, that indicates that kangaroo skins, whatever their condition, may be imported into the United States free of duty. 
I can say also that there is an inbuilt protection for the Australian tanning industry in that when kangaroo skins are exported for processing overseas and come back to Australia for sale a duty is levied on the value of the work put into those skins overseas. If the local industry believes that the protection it is receiving is not enough or that it is being damaged, it can take the usual forms of action through the Minister for Trade and Industry for additional tariff protection. 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the report by the Tariff Board on industrial chemicals and synthetic resins - an interim report on the general review inquiry on industrial chemicals - ethylene oxide derivatives and hydrogen peroxide (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No.  4  (1972). 
The customs tariff proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1971. These proposals implement the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations in its report on industrial chemicals and synthetic resins, etc. The Tariff Board has reviewed the level of protection for all chemicals on which duties exceeding 40 per cent, ad valorem, general tariff on special support value duties were imposed following the Board's comprehensive report on the Australian chemical industry in 1966. The report also includes recommendations on Bisphenol A on which temporary support values were imposed on 10th January 1969 following a report of the Special Advisory Authority. 
The Tariff Board found that local producers of most chemicals, protected by duties exceeding 40 per cent, ad valorem, general tariff, have improved their cost and competive position since 1966 and should now be able to operate with ad valorem duties at one of the industry rates the Board recommended in its 1966 report. These industry rates are either 40 per cent general tariff, 30 per cent preferential tariff or 25 per cent general tariff, 15 per cent preferential tariff. 
On high density polyethylene, however, the Board has recommended that existing duties of 60 per cent general tariff, 50 per cent preferential tariff be maintained. The Board recommended rates of 50 per cent general tariff, 50 per cent preferential tariff on synthetic rubber. This represents a reduction of 10 per cent, by value, on the existing duties. As there is now no local production of DDT in Australia, the Board recommended duties on this product be reduced to rates of  7i  per cent general tariff, free preferential tariff. The Board has recommended in 3 cases that duty rates be increased from the lower to the higher of the 2 industry rates in order to adequately protect the local industry. These are ethylene oxide derivatives, n-butyl alcohol and n-butyl acetate. 
Turning now to the special duties based on support values, the Board has concluded that support value assistance continues to be the most suitable means of according the local industry assistance to counter the effects of disruptive pricing in international trade in industrial chemicals and synthetic resins. A generally lower level of support value assistance has been recommended by the Board. Of the 27 support values recommended, 23 are lower than those  currently operating. Moreover,  in a number of instances the Board has recommended the discontinuance of support values altogether. Where reductions in support values have been accompanied with no change in ad valorem rates, the Board indicated that local producers have achieved cost reductions that are relatively of the same general order as those achieved by overseas competitors. 
The Government has accepted the Board's suggestion that there should be some change in the programme of reviews recommended in its 1966 report. The review arrangements now intended are an overall review of the industry in 1975 and a review of support values to be referred to the Board in mid- 1973. The Government has also accepted the Board's suggestion that the bounty presently payable on cellulose acetate flake should be continued until the Board has examined the question of assistance for this product and other related acetyl products as part of the general overall review. 
In its report under the Dumping and Subsidies Act, the Tariff Board found that hydrogen peroxide has been sold to persons in Australia at export prices which are less than normal values in the countries of exportation and that the exportation of those goods has caused and is threatening injury to an Australian industry. By Gazette notice tomorrow, hydrogen peroxide exported to Australia on and after 14th July 1969 will become subject to dumping duty where sales are made to Australia at export free-on-board prices which are below normal values in the countries of export. Comprehensive summaries setting out the changes and the duty rates are now being distributed to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the following report by the Tariff Board: 
Industrial gamma ray equipment 
 Ordered that the report be printed. 
I move: 
 I will not detain the House long, but as Minister in charge of this Bill I would like to say a few words, for 2 reasons: Firstly, out of courtesy to the honourable members who have spoken and, secondly, because I personally am pleased to be able to say that, as a result of the new system I have introduced into the discussion on tariff debates, 1 think this is the best tariff debate that we have had since I have been in the Parliament. The cut and thrust of the contributions have been first class. I would like to thank honourable members for that. Let me answer briefly some of the points that have been made today, but as, with the concurrence of the Opposition, the discussion in the Committee stage of the Bill will probably be next week and we will adjourn the debate now, I want to refer to some small matters in particular that were raised; then I would like to talk about philosophy. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  stated that the had evidence - he did not disclose it - about woven shirts. He said he knew an importer who was importing 9,000 dozen shirts a month from Singapore. My officers have checked this out. We are in a reasonable position to know what is being imported and what is not. In the short time available we could not substantiate it. 1 would ask the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to give me some information so that my officers can check it out, and I could report to the House when I speak in the Committee stage next week. 
Maybe it is, but I would think that we are in a reasonable position to know this. Many statements are bandied about in this House, sometimes in good faith, which when put to the test cannot be substantiated. I ask the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to give me some particulars and I will report on the matter next week. There was a great deal of discussion tonight about woven shirts. With respect, some of it was made by honourable gentlemen who had not read, sufficiently to reach any conclusions, the statement made in this House by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  concerning the Government's attitude to that matter. I suspect that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has not quite read it, because he seemed to show undue concern about some situation. If he had read the Minister's statement he would know that the Government had stated specifically when it presented the report to Parliament that, although it accepted the report, it was taking immediate remedial action so that - to use the figures of the honourable member for Lalor  -  10,000 workers would not be put out of work. The Government virtually put a moratorium of 18 months on it, during which time the Department of Trade and Industry will be negotiating with other countries to see whether some quota restrictions can be made. 
Of course it is, and the Minister said that in his statement. During that time his Department would be negotiating with other countries. Those negotiations have been taking place and, I am able to tei! the House, with the authority of the Minister, with some success. When we reach the Committee stage of the Bill I shall have more to say about it 
With respect, I suggest that the honourable member's understanding is not correct. More will be said about that next Tuesday. On the philosophy of the debate, I thoroughly agree with the honourable member for Lalor that there are very few matters that come into this House that are more important, in terms of the nation, the national economy, the fabric of our society and even down to the grassroots level of individual happiness and individual contentment, than a traiff debate. I share with him his sadness - I think that is how he felt - that such a debate is one of the least attended and least popular debates conducted in this House. I agree with him that there are very few matters which are so important. In fact I have a peculiar feeling of loneliness when I come into this House, as I do on an average of once  a  week and table tariff proposals. Sometimes my hand trembles when I am speaking to a virtually empty House and tabling a tariff proposal which has massive effects on a great number of people. The procedure is that when the Minister for Customs and Excise tables a proposal the new tariff rates apply as from the start of business at 9 o'clock the next morning. Virtually with the exception of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and one or two others there is hardly anybody who is interested. 
Because it is so important, I believe that on an opportunity like this, where we have had participation in the debate from both sides of the House, we could reasonably have expected a statement of the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party on its tariff policy if and when it becomes the government of this country. I am sad to say that tonight we did not have that expression of philosophy. What we have bad in the past from the Opposition are various conflicting statements from several of the Opposition's front bench spokesmen. 1 would have thought that industry, the trade union movement and the workers whose interest in this is vital would want a clear and unequivocal expression of policy from the alternative government. When one reads the platform of the Australian Labor Party, at first glance it seems as though the words mean something. Section V - 'Economic Planning' - of the Australian Labor Party Platform, Constitution and Rules, states: 
Protect Australian industries, where necessary by tariffs, import controls and/or subsidies in order to safeguard Australian living standards and to develop Australian resources. 
To that point 1 think it would be synonymous with Liberal Party policy and Country Party policy. It goes on: 
The use and level of. and choice between, means of protection to be determined after examination and report by an independent, fully equipped government authority- 
That sounds beautiful, and again it is completely in line with Government policy. It talks about an independent, fully equipped government authority, but then it goes on, and here is where doubt is thrown on to the Labor Party's policy: which will consider, amongst other things, the efficiency- 
That is all right. We go along with that - growth prospects- 
We go along with that - trade practices and pricing policies. 
It is in that area that I suggest several Labor spokesmen have from time to time decided to put their own interpretations on Labor Party policy. 
 I know they are your words, and I concede that they are. I wish to quote the honourable member for Lalor, to whom we on this side of the House look as the spokesman for the Labor Party on tariff matters.  His  simplistic approach to tariffs, if I may say so without offence, has the clarity of a London fog. He appears to have discovered an economic centaur, half laissez-faire, half protectionist, sometimes complete laissez-faire, sometimes complete protectionist. In his ungainly attempts to straddle this beast, the centaur, he affronts the credibility of all who witness it. 
I am talking about my friend, the honourable member for Lalor. I will try to substantiate the kind of accusation I have made against him. I will quote what he said in 1967.  His  fluctuations have confused not only members on the Government side but, it seems, members on his own side also. I do not know whether it was fortuitous but the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  after reading a certain book is reported to have said in 1971  -  in that year or thereabouts a certain book was published by the honourable member for Lalor which Alan Wood in a review described as the upside-down world of  Dr Jim  Cairns - that he had recently read a book on tariffs and listened to a debate, presumably at Launceston, but was beset with confusion. The honourable member for Oxley is a confessed expert on economics in the Labor Party. Perhaps he had too many vigorous sessions with his colleague, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  in the Opposition's Economics Committee, or perhaps he was just perfectly confused, as I was after reading the book that came out of the upsidedown world of the honourable member for Lalor. The honourable member for Lalor in 1967, when he approved of  Sir Leslie  Melville's statement, said: 
What is needed is a more moderate approach to protection than we now have. Instead of providing more and more protection to virtually whatever industries seek .assistance we should deliberately select for assistance only the less costly ventures.  1 would have thought that in 1967 the honourable member for Lalor would have been the favourite son of my friend, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  But let us see how the honourable member for Lalor has progressed from being half laissez-faire to half protectionist and done the full circle. In 1968 in the Budget debate he said: 
Save us from having the tariff system related to the Government's national economic objectives. Whatever else we do, let us not do that. The whole question that is involved here is: What is economic and efficient? The definition that I give on behalf of the Opposition is that an industry is economic and efficient if it has the most modern equipment and skilled labour - but which still requires high tariff protection. 
I suggest that that is a complete 180 degree turn. In 1971 the honourable gentleman said: 
The Australian Labor Party stands primarily foi the Australian worker and his family. Tariff protection more than anything else determines whether the worker will keep his job or whether he will be thrown out to search for one elsewhere.  . . The Australian Labor Party will never adopt a policy that may cause an upheaval in the lives of ordinary people simply because of some abstract economic theory. 
If that is not a complete 180 degree turn in economic and political philosophy, I would like to have one illustrated to me. 
 We have stated unequivocally where we stand, but I am appealing to the Opposition tonight to let us know where it stands. It is not too late to do so. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  had his name down to participate in the debate tonight but withdrew. He will have an opportunity to speak on this matter on Tuesday and to let us know where he stands. I remember a debate or two ago on tariffs when he and the honourable member for Lang had almost a verbal altercation about their conflict of views on tariffs. As that was the last time the honourable member for Adelaide spoke on tariffs, 1 would have thought that he owes a duty to the Parliament to speak on Tuesday and say where he stands. We are surrounded with utter confusion about the Labor Party's policies. It was the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who tonight made an extraordinary statement and let another cat out of the bag. He said that the Labor Party does no stand for drastic reduction of bounties oi tariffs unless some other arrangements are made. 
The honourable gentleman says: 'Hear, hear!' How can he relate that to the Labor Party's platform, which the honourable gentleman acknowledges that he wrote himself and which states that the Labor Party will go to a completely independent authority to determine tariffs? Does that mean that it will go to  an  independent authority, a body having the integrity of independence but with which the Labor Party has fiddled around with according to its own political objectives? 1 would have  thought  that if we needed any clarification we had it in the recent 
Statement  by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who made one of the most irresponsible and monstrous statements  on  tariff policy that I have ever heard. He said, talking about prices and profits and prices control, that a Labor Government will hold the stick over companies on tariffs. 
Let us consider that statement for a couple of moments. What does it mean? Suppose that company XYZ has just had a price increase in shirts or steel or whatever it is. The Labor Party, if in government, would say, by some magical process: We are in a position to measure and judge that that price increase is not correct'. So it would go to XYZ company and say to them: 'Reduce your prices. If you do not we will go to the Tariff Board, this independent authority, and we will direct the Tariff Board to look at the price structure and the  cost  structure of XYZ company, and it will reduce tariffs and cut away your protection'. What would that action do to the chances of ABC company or DEF company, which might not be in a similar situation? This sort of tariff policy is utter nonsense. Let any sector of manufacturing industry or any responsible trade union that is looking for stability and growth in manufacturing and trade union relations buy the so-called policies of the Australian Labor Party at their own peril. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and committed pro forma; progress reported. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each Bill at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 I think I speak for all honourable members who have been in the House during the Committee stage of this debate when I say how gratified I am with the cut and thrust it has brought from members on both sides of the House. On many occasions the cut and thrust of the debate has transcended party lines, which is something that pleases me greatly. I should like briefly to answer some of the points which have been raised by honourable members. I have discussed personally with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  the matter he raised before the suspension of the sitting and I hope that as a man of goodwill, he now believes that I followed my usual practice of not attacking personalities in this House, a practice of which I have never been guilty, and of which I was not guilty in this debate when I pointed out the Hansard report to him. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  raised a point which he suggested worries me. I now acknowledge that it does worry me when the Department of Customs and Excise in administering the tariff makes decisions on by-law matters which are not and cannot be brought before the Parliament for debate or disclosure. The simple fact, as I pointed out when the honourable member was kind enough to allow me to interject, is that about 25,000 such decisions are made every year, some of which are relatively important and some of which are unimportant. The honourable member for Wakefield retorted to me: 'Can we not pick out the important ones?' I share his concern and I would dearly love to have those matters of some significance to the economy, such as the one he mentioned, brought to the Parliament for debate. If the honourable member has the wit and the ability, which I obviously do not have, to devise a system whereby we can bring the important matters in and determine them in the Parliament, I would be delighted to listen to him. But I do say in some small compensation to the honourable member that all the by-laws and notices of all determinations are in fact published in the Commonwealth Gazette and departmental publications which, as he knows, are freely and widely available. They are not done in secret. I know that this does not answer the honourable member's question that although they are public, it does not provide a vehicle for debate in this House. One would wonder with some sadness, as did my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  that if these matters were brought into the House, how much interest they would stimulate. 
The honourable member for Lalor criticised my second reading speech when I challenged the Opposition to declare itself on its tariff policy. He said: 'What does the Minister for Customs and Excise mean when he challenges the Opposition? I have stated simply our policy that we stand for an independent tribunal that will determine "economic" and "efficient" ', and then he added some words to the effect that when the Labor Party was the Government, it would have regard to trade practices, prices and so on. He went on: What does the Minister for Customs and Excise mean when he challenges this?' Surely that is clear enough. The thing that I challenge - this debate has not brought this out - from the honourable member for Lalor or anybody else is what is meant by 'independent'? That is the key word in the form of words which was used. To say 'independent authority' is one thing, but to define it is another. The honourable member could say that, as a government, the Labor Party would appoint an independent authority to investigate these matters but if it then shackled that independent authority with a set of criteria which narrow down its area of investigation to such a ridiculous extent, no longer could the word 'independent' truly be applied to that authority. If a Labor government were to say: 'You are a Tariff Board which we appoint, or reappoint, and you have an independent existence. We will refer to you an industry and you must determine whether it is efficient or economic' - which this Government does - but then adds: 'But you must determine whether its prices are right' as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said- 
Does the honourable member for Lalor agree with the Leader of the Opposition who said that he will say to the Tariff Board: 'Are the prices right for this particular industry?' 
Well, he used the term carrot and stick'. 
The honourable member for Lalor does not know what his leader means on tariff policy. That is the very point I have been making through this debate. 
Does the honourable member lor Lalor deny that the Leader of the Opposition said, as far as tariff policy and price control are concerned, that a Labor government would use tariff policy as a carrot and the stick' instrument? ls that what he is saying? 
It is quite astonishing to me that the honourable member for Lalor, who is the Labor spokesman on tariffs, has not gone to the trouble of finding out what his leader meant when he made this monstrous statement about tariffs. This,  Mr Chairman,  might provide a most interesting vehicle for a further debate next week. By way of an urgency discussion we could try to ascertain what the Labor Party means and what its leader means on these subjects. However, the honourable member for Lalor might mean 'independent' and then say to that independent authority once we have used these nice words: *But you must have regard to prices, to restrictive trade practi* and to the location of industry because we want a certain industry in Ballarat', or whatever may be his favourite town. The honourable member might say that the industry must consist of female labour and add a whole string of other sort of criteria. Such an attitude makes a mockery of the word 'independent'. If this is what is meant by 'independent' we then get down to the basic philosophical difference in our parties. What does planning mean in the Socialist sense? It simply means that you have an organisation to which you ascribe the flattering adjective of 'independent' and then you tell it what to do. We on this side of the House do not buy that at all. 
I would like to give an analogy which may be a little removed from the subject we are discussing. However, we on- this side of the House, as 1 am sure a Labor government would agree, have pride in tender boards. Tender boards must be of an independent character. If a government wants certain goods its submits a request to a tender board which as an independent authority with all of the integrity of independence makes a judgment on the best deal that the government can obtain. Let us assume the Government wanted to buy 1,000 motor cars. The Government would say to the tender board that it wanted 1,000 motor cars and give the general specifications. We would then rely on the independence and the integrity of the tender board to purchase those 1,000 motor vehicles for us. We would then be respecting the independence of that board. But what would be the situation if the Government, or a Labor government, on placing an order for 1,000 motor cars and saying to the tender board that it was completely independent as to what motor car it bought, said that the cars must be Holdens, the model must be 'Kingswood', they must be battleship grey in colour, they must be 1971 models and they must have a Kevin Dennis sticker on the back? I would have thought that this would be undermining the independence of that independent tender board. I hope that the analogy has some validity. 
I would like to speak briefly about woven shirts. I do not think there is too much division on both sides of the chamber on this subject. There have been many excellent speeches from both Government and Opposition speakers. The honourable members for Lalor, Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  expressed their concern about this matter. 
It was said that 10,000 people may be out of work. However, it does seem clear that some honourable members may not have been fully conversant with what the Minister for Trade and Industry said about this matter in a statement in the House on 7th September. He said:   . . since there are substantial industries involving significant employment and activity in many areas throughout the country, the Government also endorses as the Board has done the concept of interim arrangements to ensure an orderly and successful transition to the new basis.  1 think that is almost exactly what the honourable members for Lalor and Dawson were advocating. I do not think there is any variance there. The Minister concluded his statement by saying: 
In summary, the Government has decided that in order to achieve an orderly transition to the basis which the Tariff Board recommends, the levels of protection which have applied in recent years should be maintained for a further period of up to 18 months, during which period it will initiate negotiations for voluntary restraint arrangements with the principal low.cost supplying countries. This is on the basis that the industries concerned will be expected within this period to take steps to adjust to the increased import competition which will follow the transitional period and the Government's intention to reach a situation where the longer term levels of protection recommended by the Tariff Board can be phased in without disruption to the more efficient sectors of the industries concerned. 
Can we be fairer than that? We say that we give an 18 months breathing space. During that time we say to private enterprise that we will give it 18 months in which to phase out or to diversify its activities. lt seems to me very strange that the Socialist Party opposite might suddenly be acting as 'big brother' to private enterprise, saying to private enterprise that we the Socialists are going to protect you, private enterprise, from these monsters who are allowing you freedom of choice. There seems to be an incongruity about this sort of appeal - it may be a novelty but at least it is an appeal. 
Negotiations on voluntary restraints have been put in hand. The honourable member for Chifley interjected while I was speaking and said that he understood that this had not been successful. I took his interjection as being sincere and had inquiries made. I have now been informed that an Australian delegation visited Hong Kong, Taipeh and Singapore in December 1971. About the same time a Korean delegation met the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Holten,  and representatives of the Department of Trade and Industry in Canberra. Negotiations are now being continued by correspondence and indications are that satisfactory arrangements will be negotiated. During such negotiations there are obvious reasons, as the Committee would realise, for detailed comment being inappropriate. Therefore it is not possible to elaborate on the details. But the Government naturally is watching the progress very closely. 
I would like to talk now about rationalisation, a subject on which a number of honourable members spoke. The honourable member for Lalor has stated that he is not opposed to a reduction of tariffs in an industry which is fragmented, which needs reorganisation, which works at excessive costs, which is obviously inefficient and which lacks science and machinery. He also has reminded us that what we are doing in the woven shirt industry is changing the whole structure of the industry. Once again I wonder whether honourable members have read carefully the statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry on 7th September because the Minister said: 
. the problem of an established textile Industry being unable to compete against low-cost countries is not unique to Australia. 
Perhaps I could hark back a few years to the time when the honourable member for Lalor and I were students at the University of Melbourne. At that time we talked about this matter which certainly would not be unique to him. The Minister continued: 
A high proportion of Western countries has found it necessary to impose quota restrictions rr to negotiate voluntary restraints with Asian countries to manage a sharing of their internal markets between imports and domestic production. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports was kind enough to disclose to me today the information which I asked him to give me about an alleged order of 9.000 dozen shirts per month to be supplied by a Singapore manufacturer to a Sydney importer. I stated during my reply to the second reading debate that my Department at that stage had no knowledge of that. This is natural because it is apparent that a contract may have been concluded but we have no knowledge of contract* Our knowledge is limited to the physical amount of goods that come in. But I say to the Committee in response to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Chifley, who was also good enough to see me privately, that at present Singapore is not a significant supplier of woven shirts. Imports of woven shirts from Singapore totalled about 9,000 dozen shirts in the 6 months ended December 1971. I am authorised to say that Singapore has been advised of our concern about the import of woven shirts and is aware of our negotiations with the major supplying countries. I am also authorised to say by my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry that Singapore is also aware that if her exports to Australia grow rapidly we will be seeking an orderly marketing arrangement. If the matter is substantiated it will be taken up with the Singapore authorities. 
I am puzzled by the honourable member's interjection. 
1 am sad because I had taken up a quarter of an hour in trying to explain that very question. Either the honourable gentleman is lacking in understanding or I have been an abysmal failure in explaining our attitude to the House. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I am not aware whether my colleague, the Minister for Works, has received such a telegram. 1 will have inquiries made and inform the honourable member directly. 
As Minister representing the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and as the person responsible for presenting these reports I feel it is appropriate from time to time that I should place on record the appreciation of this House to all members of the Public Works Committee for the work they do. When one reads and understands a report like the one we are now considering, one realises bow dedicated are members from both sides of the House who, in the spare time they have between sittings, go to out of the way places like Katherine and devote an enormous amount of their time to this important duty. I thought I should place on record the appreciation of the House for their services. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a sewerage system at Katherine, N.T. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work is Si. 3m. The proposal referred to the Committee involves the construction of a sewerage reticulation system, pumping stations and treatment lagoons. The area to be served covers the whole of the present town of Katherine and the subdivisional development planned for the future. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal as referred. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a central hospital services complex - Stage 1 - Canberra. 
The proposal referred to the Committee involves the construction of stage 1 of a complex of buildings for servicing Canberra hospitals from a central source, and comprises: (i) A central linen service for 1,500 beds; (ii) a central sterilising service for 1,500 beds; (iii) the necessary supporting engineering facilities, staff amenities and transport facilities to cater for 3,000 beds. Sufficient adjacent land in the Crace industrial area has been reserved for facilities involved in stage  2  of the project which at this time have yet to be fully investigated to ascertain whether they are both feasible and economic. The estimated cost of the proposed stage 1 work is $4.865m. 
In reporting favourably on this proposal the Committee also recommended that: (A) the Department of Works should take any steps possible which will accelerate completion of the work in this reference; and (B) the Department of Health should examine the means of maintaining a satisfactory linen and sterilising service with the existing resources in the period prior to completion. 
Every effort will be made to carry out the recommendation affecting the Department of Works and this will be taken into consideration during the further detailed development of the proposal. The Department of Health has already taken steps to ensure an adequate supply of linen and sterilising supplies from existing sources. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes minor amendments to 2 sections of the Customs Tariff, section 8, relating to the free on board price of goods and section 31 relatingto overseas freight and insurance in connection with the landed cost of goods. Honourable members will be well aware that the determination of the correct amount of duty on goods, and hence the effectiveness of tariff protection, depends in most cases, on the correct rate of duty being applied to the correct value of the goods. Since values can be manipulated by arrangement between exporter and importer and since attempts at tariff avoidance will always appeal to some types of people, Parliament, in 1965, gave the Minister power to determine the free on board price of goods in certain circumstances - in the main, whenever he was satisfied that an importer and exporter had fixed the free on board price with the view of paying no duty or less duty on those goods. 
As 1 said earlier, some types of people will engage in tariff avoidance. Recent investigations have disclosed new arrangements for manipulating free on board prices and these fall outside the scope of the present legislation. For example, if an importer and exporter adopt, as a subterfuge, a system of buying and selling which includes the appointment of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the importer to act as the selling agent of the exporter the present provisions of the law can be circumvented. 0:her variations of tariff avoidance of this nature have also been identified. The purposes of this Bill are, therefore, to ensure that the intentions of the existing legislation are not defeated and that the tariff protection authorised by this Parliament is not negated by arrangements between interested parties - whether two or more principals and/or agents or other intermediaries are involved" or whether the duty avoided is ordinary duty or support duty. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of Anula and Wulagi neighbourhood units in the district of Sanderson, Darwin. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work is $8.75m. The proposal is for the construction of roads, footpaths and drainage, and the provision of water supply, sewerage and electric power to 1,808 residential sites and 22 special sites for schools, shops, flats, service stations, etc. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee also recommended that: 
immediate attention be given to the planning and construction of the Palmerston Freeway, and 
the Government should, as a matter of priority, examine the possibility of further increasing the capacity of the Stuart Highway-Bagot Road access. 
Regarding Palmerston Freeway, planning of this road is now at an advanced stage and a proposal on the matter will be examined by the Government as soon as possible. There is no intention at this stage to develop this road to full freeway standard. In respect to the Stuart Highway-Bagot Road access, works that will increase the capacity of Bagot Road by providing 3 traffic lanes in each direction and traffic lights at the Bagot Road-Stuart Highway intersection have now been included in the 1971-72 civil works programme. Together with work now being carried out to widen the Stuart Highway between Goyder Road and the Daly Street Bridge, these works will complete the upgrading of the Stuart Highway-Bagot Road access. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only office buildings which have been constructed by or on behalf of the Commonwealth Government in the Sydney metropolitan area since 1966 relate to District Employment Offices for the Department of Labour and National Service. The details are: 
 As a mere city dweller 1 just want to say that I will be delighted to take up by letter with the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  the suggestion made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and supported by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder). 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  j 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of stage 2 development works, HMAS 'Nirimba', Quakers Hill, New South Wales. 
The proposal referred to the Committee involved the construction, at an estimated cost of $6.4m, of an instructional complex, a galley and messes for senior and junior sailors, 2 senior sailors' sleeping blocks, a junior sailors' sleeping block, an apprentices' galley, mess and recreation centre, 2 apprentices' sleeping blocks, a civilian staff amenities block, a gymnasium and squash court and a swimming pool. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee also recommended: 
In lieu of a 6 lane 33i metre swimming pool, a 6 lane SO metre pool should be provided at an additional cost of $35,000. 
The Government should accelerate consideration of the use of carpets on the floors of cabins in sleeping blocks; and 
If it is economically feasible, carpet should be used as a floor covering in cabins in the sleeping accommodation at HMAS 'Nirimba'. 
The recommendation regarding the swimming pool will be taken into consideration during the further detailed design of the proposal. A decision on the carpeting of steeping quarters has not yet been made but the Department of Works is continuing with detailed field tests on soft floor coverings in servicemen's bedrooms. 
Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sewerage Reticulation and Treatment Plant at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory 
 I move: 
That, in. accordance with the provisions of Kie Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of sewerage reticulation, and treatment plant at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work is $900,000. The proposal referred to the Committee comprises a gravity sewerage reticulation system and installation of a pondage treatment plant. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee also recommended that the Department of Works should take any measures which will reduce the design and construction period. The department of Works has noted the recommendation and will take all steps practicable to expedite completion of the work. Upon the concurrence of the 
House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
by leave - I move: 
That in accordan.ce with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of road to East Alligator River area, Northern Territory- 
The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4.4m. The proposal referred to the Committee relates to the construction of approximately 86 miles of sealed road from Mount Bundey to Yourmill Waterhole, including a bridge over the South Alligator River and widening of the existing bridge over the Mary River; widening the existing 12 feet sealed road between Middlepoint turnoff and Mount Bundey to 20 feet, including the widening of three single lane bridges. The Committee has reported favourably on the road as referred. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House represents the initial step towards the progressive implementation of the Government's decision to adopt the metric system of weights and measures in Australia. It is proposed that all references to weights and measures in the customs and excise tariffs and in related administrative legislation will be amended to metric terminology to take effect from 1st July 1972. This Bill is the first of a group of 6 that collectively amend the excise tariff and all complementary administrative legislation. The other 5 Bills will seek to amend the following Acts: Excise Act, Distillation Act, Spirits Act, Diesel Fuel Tax (No. 1) Act, Diesel Fuel Tax (No. 2) Act. The rates of excise duly proposed in this Bill represent the conversion of existing duty rates carried out in accordance with principles approved by the Metric Conversion Board. 
Honourable members will appreciate that because of the conversion factors involved, for example 1 gallon converts to 4.54609 litres, some rounding off of decimals in the rates now proposed was unavoidable. I can assure honourable members that where rounding off has been necessary, care has been taken to ensure that neither the public nor industry will be disadvantaged by any variation in absolute duty collections. Overall in fact the changes will represent a very slight reduction in Commonwealth excise receipts - approximately $30,000 in a full year or, expressed another way, a reduction of 0.003 per cent. The proposed new duty rates also give effect to the Government's decision to adopt a different system of expressing the alcohol content of potable spirits. Currently the alcoholic content, or strength, of spirits, such as brandy, rum, etc., is expressed in terms of proof spirit and duty is assessed on the spirit content expressed in the imperial unit of proof gallons. 
The terms 'proof and 'proof spirit' are derived from the British system of alcohol measurement. This system provides a scale of 0 to 175 in which 0 is pure water and 175 is pure alcohol. 'Proof is taken to be 100 on the scale. Strengths between 100 and 175 are overproof - for example, 159 is 59 overproof - while strengths from 1 to 100 are underproof - for example, 70 is 30 underproof. Readings within the scale are ascertained from hydrometer readings and related tables. The precise origin of the term 'proof is obscure but it appears to have come into use in England in the late 17th century. A reference in the Encyclopaedia Britannica illustrates the arbitrary nature of the term. That authority tells that the test of proof of a spirit was that when poured over gunpowder and lighted it would burn and finally ignite the powder. If too much water was present in the spirit - water mixture the water left after the alcohol was burnt would prevent the ignition of the powder. This proof system does not lend itself in practical terms to volumes expressed in metric terms. In fact to the best of my knowledge no country using metric measures also uses the proof system for expressing alcoholic content. 
The system now proposed provides for the alcoholic content of a product to be expressed as a percentage of the total liquid contents of that product. It is  a  simpler system to work with and no doubt will be more readily understood by the general public than is the present proof system. The proposed new method is widely used throughout the world and is in fact recommended by the International Organisation of Legal Metrology. It is also under consideration by the Customs Cooperation Council for adoption by member countries as standard procedure. The new method of expressing alcoholic content and the proposed duty rates based on metric measures have been given wide publicity. Officers of the Department of Customs and Excise have held talks with the interested industry groups and I am confident that the changes which are proposed to take effect on 1st July next will be implemented with little or no inconvenience either to commerce or the general public. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  second  time. 
This Bill, to which I referred earlier, will amend the Excise Act 1901-1968 by converting existing references to measurement to metric equivalents. The amendments relate principally to the conversion to litres of the maximum and minimum sizes of certain vessels, namely barrels, halfhogsheads, hogsheads and kilderkins, used by the brewing industry and to the quantities for duty of beer marketed in these vessels. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read  a  second  time.  This Bill, the introduction of which I foreshadowed earlier, seeks in the main to provide for the new method of measuring by volume the alcohol content of liquors, and at the same time to effect minor amendments to the Act relating to the introduction of the metric system. I have already explained the reasons for these changes when dealing with the Excise Tariff Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, the introduction of which I foreshadowed earlier, seeks mainly to provide for the new volume method of measurement of the alcohol content of liquors and at the same time to effect minor amendments to the Act relating to metrication. I have already explained the reasons for these changes in my remarks concerning the Excise Tariff Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is another of the complementary Bills to which I made reference when introducing the Excise Tariff Bill 1972. The Bill converts the rate of tax imposed by the  Act on  diesel fuel entered for home consumption as from 1st July 1972 from 17ic per gallon to its metric equivalent, namely, 3.85c per litre. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That me Bill be now read a second time. 
This is another of the complementary Bills referred to on introduction of the Excise Tariff Bill 1972. The Bill converts the rate of duty imposed by the Act on diesel fuel entered for home consumption as from 1st July 1972 from 17ic per gallon to its metric equivalent, namely, 3.85c per litre. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Perhaps some background to this matter would be useful to the House so that, as the Government would hope, the matter could be looked at in its proper perspective. The matter was first raised in 2 newspapers some 10 days ago and, because those articles alleged that there were evasions of the Customs regulations, at that time I felt it was the duty of a responsible Minister to ask for an inquiry into and report on that allegation. This I did. The investigations indicated that there were on the premises of the Rhodesian Information Centre 5 films and a certain quantity of printed booklets, leaflets and material of this nature. After examination of them officers of my department came to the view that they appeared to be in breach of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations, to which the honourable gentleman has referred. So that this matter can be looked at in its proper perspective, because it has virtually had national headlines and because the Leader of the Opposition thinks it is important enough to be the subject of his first question today after a break in the sitting of the House of Representatives, I believe the House is entitled to the information. 
There were 5 films which my officers believed appeared to contravene the regulations. One film was entitled 'Trooping the Colour - a film of a colour trooping ceremony at which  Mr Smith  takes the salute'. The second film was one which I am sure would make every admirer of democracy shake with fear that it might destroy the foundations of our political structure. It was entitled 'Para-olympics 1968  -  portraying the paraplegic games in Israel'. The third film was entitled 'Land of Legend - tourist promotional material produced for tourist bureaus, airlines etc.'. The fourth film was entitled 'Two Leaves and a Bud - a story of tea growing in Rhodesia'. The fifth film would make all good lovers of democracy grow pale. It was entitled 'Soccer'. It was a film of a soccer final in Salisbury. Because officers of my department believed that technically this material did breach the regulations relating to prohibited imports it was seized. The material other than films comprising printed booklets was of a similar tourist or information character. There is a law relating to this material and in the opinion of my officers this law was apparently transcended. Therefore, the documents were seized. There could be other courses open to me as Minister for Customs and Excise in this matter but because of the type of material the Government believes that the whole issue would be put completely out of perspective if any penalty were imposed on the people involved other than the seizure of the documents and films. The point at issue is: Has the law been evaded? In our view there has been some technical breach and we have taken action and seized the material. Surely when this matter of imported films on soccer and tea growing is related to the other local and international issues affecting the world today the only way in which this issue can be described is as a mammoth, king-size, grand imperial humbug. 
The short answer to the honourable gentleman's question is no, although before the book was formally released each State Chief Secretary was in fact informed of it. As there has been come publicity on this matter, I believe that the House might be interested in the background to it. The book is in very small print of more than 200 pages essentially in 3 sections. The book deals with the attitude of younger people to the educational, political and social structures in which they find themselves and it has a section on sex and a section on drugs. The book contains some advice which an adult might consider to be good advice and some which an adult might consider to be bad advice. 
I was advised that the only chapter on which we had any legal power to declare the book a prohibited import was the chapter on sex. We had no regulation upon which to declare the book a prohibited import either with respect to the section on education or the section on drugs. I was advised that the chapter on sex would not merit prohibition and prohibition could successfully be challenged in court. The rest of the book is about ideas and I hold the very  strong  view that if there are bad ideas coming out in books, the way to combat them is with good ideas and by example and discussion. If we get to the stage of prohibiting literature which brings in ideas, no matter how repulsive they may be to us, we are coming perilously close to political censorship. That to me is sheer anathema. 
While I am on my feet, I would like to say just 2 more things. The chapter on education contains good advice and bad advice. Part of the good advice is that if a student cannot get along with his teacher or if his teacher is a poor one, he should try to help his teacher. The book very strongly and unequivocally states that cigarette smoking and alcohol are bad things and that all drug taking is a bad thing. The book docs not have only unpleasant aspects. On the other hand, if I had declared the book a prohibited import, there is no question that it would have been printed in Australia. I did have some prior information on this point. What does the honourable gentleman want? Doss he want us to give millions of dollars worth of free publicity to something that would be printed and published locally, giving it front page coverage in all the newspapers and making it a best seller, when it does not warrant that sort of treatment? 
in reply - This is a relatively minor Bill which aims at closing a loophole that enables the evasion or the avoidance of tariff duty on goods being imported into Australia and gives the Minister for Customs and Excise power to determine the valuations. Due to your great generosity,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  almost everything else but that has been covered in the debate. I agree that you have been generous, and thank you for it, because I think most honourable members would agree that the opportunities for tariff debates in this House are far too few and the interest taken in them is far too little. Therefore I will try to answer as best I can the many and varied problems that have been raised during the debate by honourable members. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  sent me a telegram concerning this matter, to which I have replied. I have had a discussion with him personally about it. At the last discussion I had with him I asked him to give me specific cases of hardship - which, to the best of my knowledge, I have not received to this point. I presume that the honourable member for Sturt is referring to the Government's motor vehicle plans. It was quite novel to hear someone criticise the Government's motor vehicle plans as causing unemployment. I have heard a good deal of criticism outside and inside this Parliament of the Government's motor vehicle plans but I would have thought that about the last accusation that could have been made  against them was that  they are causing unemployment in Australia. 
The honourable member for Sturt would know that the whole philosophy of the plans is to try to increase local sourcing - local content - and the Government's plans virtually say philosophically to motor vehicle manufacturers: 'If you have a local content of X per cent - 65 per cent or 85 per cent - we will hold the carrot in front of you' - I hope honourable members will forgive that term - 'to get to that target by giving you by-law entry for the remaining 15 per cent content of the car'. This carrot can be a very juicy inducement to many companies and has proved to be to such an extent that many companies are trying to reach these various levels. That of course means that those companies, in accordance with that plan, can then import the other 15 per cent of parts, if that is what is involved, duty free, while getting to a local content of 85 per cent. Before that, they may well have been down to 60 per cent local content. The net result of this is to increase local content using Australian materials and labour and making greater demands on the Australian workforce to the difference between what they were doing and what it is now doing under the new plan. 
It may well be that one industry or  a  set of factories in the electorate of the honourable member for Sturt or in his knowledge have been disadvantaged by these plans. That may well be possible but I can assure him that, overall, the net result has not been to cause unemployment in Australia. However, I do repeat, and I say this in all good faith, that if the honourable member for Sturt has a specific case where he believes that some injustice has been done in that a doubtful decision has been given, the Government's plans have not been adhered to or some other inequity has occurred, I would be delighted to look at the matter in depth with my Department. If it is not my responsibility, as it probably would not be because the Department of Customs and Excise only administers the motor vehicles plans on behalf of the policy department - the Department of Trade and Industry - I would be pleased to refer those specific inquiries to my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony). 
A great deal has been said about the extent of arbitrary powers of the Minister for Customs and Excise, and, of course, the powers of his officers which he necessarily must delegate in many cases. All I can say is that I am deeply conscious of the repsonsibility of the possession of those powers and I can undertake that my officers similarly are charged with that sense of responsibility. The tariff is a complex matter but at its simplest, after the Parliament has accepted the tariff, it provides 2 variables. One is the value to be ascribed to goods and the rates of duty to be applied to that valuation. Sometimes difficulties arise over the identification of goods and in establishing what classification they should come under. I do not know whether it still applies, but before simplification, which we instituted a short time ago, there were 27 different items of pencils in the tariff schedules and on many occasions identification of the specific item to be imported was difficult. Hence, the tariff classification now gives the rate. That tariff classification is based on the Brussels nomenclature and the rates are derived mainly from the Tariff Board recommendation and the decisions of this Parliament. 
The honourable members for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  raised again the question of powers and the use of them in relation to the administration of by-laws. As the honourable member for Wakefield would know, the Minister for Customs and Excise has other powers concerning classifications, separate articles, directions, parts directions, substitute notices and a whole host of others. These essentially are published in the Gazette. I know that the honourable member for Wakefield, with his intimate knowledge of tariffs, can immediately retort that that really does not put them on the table of the House of Parliament where they can be understood by all and debated. I would concede his retort if he did feel that way inclined but I again ask - this matter is under constant review by me and my senior officers - what is the practical solution? In 1970-71 we actually made 21,817 decisions on by-law applications. Obviously it would be bringing the Parliament into chaos if we brought in here for debate something like 22,000 by-law decisions. The number of applications for by-law admissions approved was 17,372 and we refused admission for 4,445 applications. As the honourable gentleman knows, an additional member was recently appointed to the Tariff Board. This may meet the honourable member half way. I would dearly love to be able to send certain difficult by-law matters to an independent arbiter such as  the Tariff Board which could develop some sort of case history or basic philosophy on the question of by-law admission. 
Some of the problems can be very difficult. The by-laws essentially say that if there is a suitable equivalent of an item reasonably available in Australia - they are the 4 magical words to the Customs Department - the Department refuses by-law admission. But what is a suitable equivalent? What is 'reasonably available'? One can enter into fascinating philosophical discussions on what is a suitable equivalent. Is a Holden motor vehicle a suitable equivalent for a Rolls Royce. The Lord Mayor of a city might well argue that it is not, but a person who wants to get from point A to point B might well argue that it is simply a means of transport. If I may take the time of the House for a minute, I remember a classic case which involved grand pianos. Upright pianos are manufactured in Australia but grand pianos are not manufactured in Australia or at the time this decision was taken they were not. Somebody wanted to bring in a grand piano. Is an upright piano a suitable equivalent? Here we come into the fascinating area of end use. If it were the Bandywallop symphony orchestra which made the application for the importation of the grand piano or if the application were made by some of the country friends of the honourable member for Wakefield who grouped together and formed themselves into a philharmonic society, one could argue reasonably that for them an upright piano would be a suitable equivalent. However, if an Australian concert pianist wanted to import a grand piano, perhaps he could reasonably argue that in those circumstances an Australian made upright piano would not be a suitable equivalent. So, difficulties do exist and we are hopeful that the new member of the Tariff Board will be able to examine individual cases, make a decision and build up a case law and, of course, that would be exposed on the table of the House. Perhaps that meets the honourable member for Wakefield's point to some extent. 
I also appreciate that the Minister for Customs and Excise has great power to alter the tariff. I agree with the honourable member for Lalor that sometimes a decision by the Minister or by his officers in fact can alter the wishes of Parliament by altering classifications and so on. But when we come to laws we find that they are so specific. I have given one illustration to show that sometimes, although words in the English language might appear to mean something, when we come to interpret them in the light of real life situations they get us into a bind. Therefore discretion is necessary. I would have thought that, looked at in the other way, unless the Minister for Customs and Excise is given the power of discretion the spirit and the true meaning of the wishes of this Parliament and the Tariff Board could not possibly be implemented because there would be so many clever people who would grab on to a form of words to avoid tariffs and evade the wishes and will of the Parliament. 
Like the honourable member for Wakefield I listened again to every word of the honourable member for Lalor, hoping that, on this occasion when we had limited time for debate and when we were considering a simple Bill, we would get some clue as to Labor's policy on tariffs. At least I- 
The honourable member did not seem to be particularly restrictive in what he had to say. My friend and I listened in vain. We had a form of words that the Labor Party would give protection to efficient industries on measureable Australian standards. I wish that the honourable member would tell me what that meant. He then said that the Labor Party would use the tariff in respect of protected industries to ensure that excess prices were not being charged. I listened carefully to my friend from Wakefield who said: 'Well, this Parliament has not got the constitutional powers to do that'. I think that he believed that if the honourable member for Lalor ever became the Minister for Trade and Industry or the Minister for Customs and Excise there would not be much fear that he could use price control vis-a-vis the tariff. I do not share his confidence. I would think that a Labor government could do this without constitutional powers. 
Perhaps I could give honourable gentlemen an example. If the honourable member for Lalor were Minister for Trade and Industry and took a set against one particular company which in his view was charging too high a price for a certain commodity- 
Then I wish the honourable member for Lalor would explain it to us, my dear friend. If the honourable member for Lalor took the view that a certain industry was charging a price which he did not like, he could do one of several things, not the least of which would be to amend the relevant schedule of the Tariff Act and decrease protection for that particular tariff item. He would not need necessarily a Tariff Board report to do this. But before he took this action he would go up to the company and say: 'Look here, I think that your prices are too high'. 
He would then say: 'If you do not reduce the price to a level which I believe to be credible I am going to get my Party to use its numbers in the Parliament to reduce the tariff on your level'. 
I hope now that I have removed the assurance of my honourable friend that a Labor government would not need constitutional powers to bring about this carrot and stick way of standing over business and implementing price control through the back door. My friend the honourable member for Sturt interjected to say that this was my assumption of how the Labor Party would act. Of course it is my assumption because that is all I can do. We have listened in vain for the honourable member for Lalor to say something concrete so that we do not have to make assumptions. We have interjected on the honourable member, with courtesy and dignity of course, until we are hoarse to try to elicit further information. However, our efforts have been to no avail. 
Finally I would like to refer to the last 2 matters that were raised by the honourable member for Wakefield. When the honourable member raised the matter of 'to the nearer dollar' about 2 or 3 weeks ago I immediately sent a memorandum to my Department. This is not as easy as it looks. The matter is under investigation in depth as indeed is the other matter relating to the c.i.f. - cost, insurance freight - vis-a-vis f .o.b.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  thank you too for your generosity to me in giving me the opportunity of replying to most of the matters raised in the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in regard to the debate on this legislation? 
I  move: 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a new hospital at Casuarina, Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is to provide a 380 bed hospital together with staff quarters appro- priate to a hospital of that size and engineering and allied services sufficient to serve 600 beds which will allow expansion of the hospital to that capacity in the future. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $22m-$24m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
 I ask for leave to move a motion to discharge certain tariff proposals which were moved last year and earlier this year and which constitute part of the order of the day No. 83. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Bill 1972 which has now been assented to. 
Pursuant to statute I present the report of the Special Advisory Authority on Isooctyl Alcohol. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House for about one minute to make a personal explanation not concerning myself but concerning the remarks of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). 
The point of order taken by my friend from Hindmarsh I think '.ends some credence to the argument that perhaps there should be some control over the sale of the objects which the honourable member for Bennelong has referred, because the prospect of the honourable member for Hindmarsh being erotically stimulated by one of these sex aids and wandering the corridors of this Parliament fills me with stark terror. There is a view put that the operation and proliferation of so-called sex shops have passed the bounds of community tolerance. This is a view which I share. I believe that there has been a cynical exploitation of a liberalised censorship policy which now constitutes an affront to the dignity of average citizens. Because of this the Commonwealth, in the area in which I have power under certain circumstances to declare certain imports prohibited, has a role to play. However, the responsibility for sex shops, as the honourable gentleman would know, is essentially one for State governments. I have already received from the Chief Secretary of New South Wales a letter asking me to co-operate with his Government at least in the control of the operations of these institutions and with particular reference to unsolicited advertising, to which I understand the honourable gentleman referred. I would be delighted to assist and co-operate with the States in this matter and will be calling a meeting of relevant Ministers at an early opportunity. 
As usual when I listen to an attack on the Government by members of the Australian Labor Party - I think the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said he would slay us - I always find myself in difficulty because, as I rise to my feet. I am confused as to what they mean. We have just had the extraordinary spectacle of the honourable member for Cunningham making a savage attack on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries - the 
OPEC sheikhs - for increasing their oil prices to the extent that they have. The honourable member would find some sympathy with me on the savagery of the increases which have been made. I do not know whether the honourable member for Cunningham checked his speech with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  before he made it. The honourable member for Dawson told the House that we should raise our oil prices to the level established by the OPEC sheikhs. Is there any wonder why, when a Government Minister responds to such a debate, he might be confused? Obviously, as there is no interjection, I have stated the truth. 
The honourable member for Dawson made some points about a Commonwealth oil exploration authority. This is what the Labor Party would establish to cure the problems of oil exploration. I wanted to interject and ask him whether this authority would drill for oil. I suspect that it would. This is a typical approach of the Australian Labor Party which shows the great philosophical cleavage which exists between the 2 Parties. Under Labor the dead black hand of socialism will come across every industry in Australia. Private exploration of oil will be discouraged but the Labor Party will have the glorious solution of creating a government department or authority that will go out and drill for oil and cure all of Australia's ills. When will members of the Labor Party learn that in very few instances in democratic society has the dead hand of socialism produced any results? In a moment I will come to what the honourable member said about prices. He said amongst other things that the way to encourage oil exploration is to increase the domestic price of indigenous crude oil. 
No, I do not agree. I am astonished mat a member of the Labor Party would advocate an increase in the price of indigenous crude oil. Does he think that Esso is not making enough profit? In the calendar year 1971 Esso made a profit of $27m, as was announced last weekend, of which $14m will be repatriated to the United States. Does the honourable gentleman think that Esso is not earning enough profits, and should be given more profits through an increase in the price of indigenous crude oil so that in that way Esso would be made more enthusiastic about further exploration? I will be anxious to hear what my friend the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  says on that point. 
Perhaps honourable members opposite believe that the Broken Hill Pty Ltd is not earning enough profit. As the honourable member for Dawson knows, BHP is a partner with Esso in the Bass Strait field which produces about 90 per cent of Australia's indigenous crude oil. An increase in the price of indigenous crude would mean an increase in the payments to both Esso and BHP. Where is the consistency in the arguments of honourable members opposite? They raised a hoo-ha about the increase in steel prices by BHP and savagely attacked that company, but apparently it is all right to increase the price of indigenous oil. This kind of logic frankly escapes my comprehension. 
The honourable member for Dawson said that it was not necessary that an increase in the price to the consumer would follow. I wish he would tell us why an increase in the price to the consumer would not result. I would think that fundamentally if the unit cost of indigenous crude to a refiner was increased by 20 per cent, or whatever figure it might be, unless there were economies of production the price to the consumer would automatically be increased. Our estimate is that under that policy the price of petrol would increase by between lc and He a gallon. Is the Labor Party recommending that the Australian motorist pay lc or lie more for each gallon of petrol that he buys? That is the increase which would result from adopting the recommendation of the honourable member for Dawson. But let me be fair. He offered a qualification. He said that Labor would institute a price control system. 

 Mr CHIPP A prices tribunal to set the price of petrol. Does he not know that this is done now - that oil companies, refiners and marketers, before they market oil in Australia go to the Prices Commission established by a South Australian Government and now administered by a South Australian Labor Government? The South 
Australian Prices Commissioner determines the retail price of petrol. Is the honourable member for Dawson saying that the Commissioner,  Mr Baker,  does not know what he is talking about - that he fixes a wrong price for petrol? Surely logic would demand that if  Mr Baker  is satisfied with the retail price of petrol now and if the price of indigenous crude oil from the producers were increased by 20 per cent,  Mr Baker  would face an irresistible compulsion to increase the price of petrol by 20 per cent, or whatever it might be? All the knowledge I have gained from my studies screams out to me to indicate that that would follow. 
Is the Opposition not satisfied with  Mr Baker  and the Prices Commission? if honourable members opposite get into power will they form another Prices Commission for Australia? ls  Mr Baker  not good enough? What is their policy on this matter? Are they indicating an increase in the price of indigenous crude oil to raise it to the OPEC price? The honourable member for Dawson should know - I am sure that my friend the honourable member for Lang who specialises in oil matters far more than does the honourable member for Dawson will know - that the OPEC price is a false price. As the honourable member for Cunningham said, that price has been jacked up by a group of sheiks who got together and now take about 60 per cent of the total. 
The honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Cunningham criticised the Australian indigenous oil policy. Does the honourable member for Dawson want us to remove the restrictions on exports of oil? This would give a greater opportunity for explorers to get a higher price. When the Gorton oil policy was announced in October 196X it wa? savagely attacked by every Labor  speaker  in the debate at that time but that policy is now being advocated by honourable members opposite. They are saying that the Gorton policy, the Liberal Government policy of 1968. was wrong and should be revised because the price is too low. I could quote from speeches made by the honourable member for Cunningham, the honourable member for Lang and the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  in which they said that that price was too high in 1968. The honourable member for Cunningham, with his usual masterly command of the English language, said in very effective terms that a travesty of justice had occurred. But today the honourable member for Dawson says that the price is too low. I am left in utter confusion. 
What if we did raise the price of indigenous crude to the OPEC price? What would that solve? Does not the honourable member for Dawson know that if somebody found a huge oil field tomorrow in Australia it could not be brought into production until at least 1975 or 1976? Does not the honourable member for Dawson know that the price will be revised in 1975? So who would an increase in the price benefit now? It would benefit only the existing producers. An increase would have 2 effects. Firstly, it would increase the annual profit of $27m of Esso. It would increase the profit of BHP and it would cause an increase of lc or He a gallon in the price of petrol. 
At the outset, because it is on record, I should like to refer to a remark that my friend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  made about the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham). 
That may be, but it is on record. I know that the honourable member for Grayndler is a fair minded man but it is on record that he commented that the honourable member for North Sydney was not in the House very often. I know that the honourable member for Grayndler would admit readily that very few members of this House are here more than the honourable member for North Sydney. In fact in respect of times of attendance in the House I should think that the honourable member for North Sydney would rank among the top 6 members in the Parliament. 
I thank the honourable member for his generosity, and 1 hope that Hansard records it. I speak tonight in my capacity as  Deputy  Leader of the House and I say, in a very cool way, if I may use that expression, that unless there is violent objection, at the end of my speech I propose to move that the question be put on this particular clause because we have had a wide-ranging, fair and good debate on the Standing Orders. However we, in the Government, have the responsibility of running the House and we must look at things in perspective. In fact there has been more time devoted to this debate on the Standing Orders, Including whether the House should sit until 10.30 p.m. or 10 p.m., than has been spent debating education, defence, industrial relations, foreign affairs and other earth shattering matters to the nation. While it is important to talk about these things- 
1 was not suggesting that at all as people who have been listening to what I have had to say would agree. I put it to the House that all of us have different ideas about times of sitting, days of sitting and so on. Just for the record, in one minute may I put in my 10c worth. I believe it is prehistoric that we as members of the Parliament who come to Canberra - this ivory-towered city - should be precluded at times from seeing anybody of importance outside this House. I refer to such people as members of the diplomatic corps, members of the Public Service, business men and trade unionists. We are treated like schoolboys. We go to dinner between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. At 5 minutes to 8 a member might be in the middle of an important conversation and almost in mid-sentence he must say: 'I have to get back to the House because there might be a division at half a minute past 8'. I have felt strongly about this for many years. This is not the way to treat adult people who supposedly are running this country. For years 1 have advocated that on at least one night during the week the House might sit until about 7 p.m., 7.30 p.m. or even 8 p.m. This would not result in much waste of time and would enable us to engage in the business that is Canberra - the business of government both national and international. However there seems to be a majority of honourable members who have the obsession that we must have dinner at 6 o'clock. 1 have expressed my view, and it is a minority view, it will not se ve the national Parliament much good if 1 speak for 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour on this subject. 
A first class group of members of this Parliament constitute the Standing Orders Committee. They have presented a report. The matters contained therein have been discussed. The report quite rightly is being debated by the House, but I think we have had a fair go. Some excellent suggestions have been made concerning variations on the theme- 
I beg your pardon? 
Yesterday the Australian Labor Party introduced a matter of public importance on the question of oil exploration. I would say from the point of sheer objectivity and impartiality that, if ever a piece of exquisite political masochism was perpetrated by a Party against itself, this was it. Dining the course of the debate the honourable member for Dawson, supported by other Labor speakers, said that one of the features- 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary 
Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Extension of the 17/35 runway, taxiways and aprons at Canberra (Fairbairn) Airport. 
The proposed work involves the extension of the 17/35 runway by 2,000 feet to the south with associated parallel taxiway, extension to the terminal apron and development of a new general aviation apron. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2.25m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is refreshing to have criticism levelled at my Department for not taking appropriate action on dumping. Normally the criticism comes the other way - that my Department is too active on this matter. The question of dumping of textiles in Australia is one which constantly exercises the attention of officers of my Department and the honourable member would know the procedures that are followed. There is a prima facie examination of the complaint by my Department if a complaint is lodged. If goods are being imported into Australia at a price lower than the current domestic price in the exporting country one of two things happens - cash securities are levied forthwith or the matter is immediately referred to the Tariff Board. As to the particular matter raised by the honourable gentleman, I do not have the current situation at my fingertips. I do know that some investigations have been carried out into this matter but I will look into the matter and let the honourable gentleman know the position. 
 May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering the Excise Tariff Bill, the Excise Bill, the Distillation Bill, the Spirits Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 1) and the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2), as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to save my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  some embarrassment with his colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)?  It is really too early to adjourn the House. 
I know that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports might be less prepared than he would want to be to take part in this debate, but because of his co-operation and the co-operation of the House 6 Bills have been dealt with much quicker than we thought they would be. So we would appreciate the continued co-operation of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I am sure that in the circumstances his colleague the honourable member for Dawson would not mind the honourable member for Melbourne Ports leading for the Opposition in the debate on this Bill. 
I am advised by my colleague in the Senate, the Minister for Works, that several evaluations are being made of this scheme by the Departments of the Interior, Works and Health and that an announcement on the scheme is expected at an early date. The matter will then immediately go before the Public Works Committee for hearing. 
I received a telegram from the honourable member this morning and, minutes before or after question time began, I received a letter from him about this matter. In the meantime I made inquiries and the only concrete information I have at the moment, other than from the honourable member, is a story from the Illawarra 'Daily Mercury' which contains a statement that 30,000 tons of tin plate has been imported which has imperiled the positions at Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd of, from memory, some men and 40 women workers. This matter actually belongs to my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, because there presently is no embargo on the importation of tin plate. There is a tariff item on it of 7i per cent general and free preferential which, in the free flow of things, would allow people to import tin plate provided they have paid or are prepared to pay that duty. Only in the event of a shortfall of products could it be admitted duty free. However, because of the implications of the honourable gentleman's question and because it is a matter of fundamental Government policy, I will be pleased to bring it to the notice of my colleague, the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry, and any other appropriate Minister. 
I assume that the honourable gentleman is referring mainly to the Government's indigenous oil policy and particularly to how that relates to the future exploration and discovery of oil. The first part of this policy is administered by my Department and the latter by my colleague the Minister for National Development. The indigenous oil policy established by the Government in 1968 has in fact proven to be remarkably successful in that it does guarantee that all oil found in Australia until 1980, so far as is practicable, will be refined in Australia thus guaranteeing to discoverers that the oil will be used in Australia and that there will be a market for it. Also until 1975 the policy guarantees a price, which will be re-negotiated in 1975 for the following 5 years. When the price was first determined, the Opposition, of course, said that it was too high. 
The honourable gentleman asked me what an alternative government in this country would do. On the latest information I must confess that I do not know, because every pronouncement that is made on this matter by the Opposition seems to be covered in confusion. I saw a report the other day that the Opposition now complains that the price is, in fact, too low. 1 saw reports advocating that the present price of indigenous crude oil should be increased to somewhere near the import parity of overseas prices. The present price of Bass Strait crude oil, from which about 90 per cent of Australia's crude oil comes, is about $2.06 a barrel. The overseas price for similar crude oil landed in Australia now ranges between $2.30 and $3 a barrel, which generally speaking is about 20 per cent higher than the Australian price. 
It seems to me to be an extraordinary proposition for the Opposition to be putting a case that the present price of indigenous crude oil should be increased, because it seems to me that the only net effect of that would be a bonanza to the producers. Esso Standard Oil (Aust.) Ltd recently declared a profit of $27m, and one would ask whether the Opposition thinks that is not enough. The other component of that proposition would be that the extra money gained from a 20 per cent increase would go to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, and one must ask oneself whether the Opposition is advocating an increased dividend for Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd through increased crude oil prices. But, whatever the result of that, there is one inevitable result to the consumer, and that is that if the price of indigenous crude is increased by 20 per cent the price of petrol must go up by 20 per cent. 
The honourable member for Dawson interjects and says 'Why?'. I suppose he has some magic. I have seen reported that his magical solution to preventing the price of petrol from going up is a Labor prices tribunal. 
It is not a question of whether I agree with it or not. The honourable gentleman obviously does not know that in the case of petrol there already is a Prices Commissioner - set up by a Labor government and administered by a Labor government - in South Australia. There is an agreement that before refiners and marketers set a price they should go to the South Australian Prices Commissioner and nationally all the marketers accept the Commissioner's price as the price at which to market petrol throughout Australia. So already there is price control. If the Prices Commissioner - established by a Labor government and administered under a Labor government - is satisfied with the present price of petrol marketed in Australia because he has approved of it, then if the price of indigenous crude rose by 20 per cent I would think that the Prices Commissioner would have to come to the inescapable conclusion that the price of petrol should increase by 20 per cent. Estimates from - - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to increase the standing appropriation in the Public Works Committee Act 1969 from $20,000 to $30,000. The appropriation, which is fixed by section 36 of the Act, is designed to limit the upper level of the amount of the expenses of the Committee. The major part of these is the cost of travel for members when on Committee business and the balance represents the sitting fees and travelling allowances payable to the members under the regulations. 
The Committee has advised that the funds remaining available to it for the rest of 1971-72 will be insufficient to cover the cost of anticipated inspections and hearings, and has accordingly sought an increase in the standing appropriation. The Committee's 33rd annual general report for 1970 shows that the number of reports presented to Parliament has increased over recent years, as follows: 1966, 13; 1967, 1 1; 1968, 20; 1969, 18; and 1970, 22. 
The 34th annual report records that the number of references during 1971 has maintained the abovementioned trend of a gradual increase in the volume of Commonwealth works projects. The scope of the Committee's investigations ranges over Commonwealth activities in all States, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and it is unlikely that there will be any diminution of the Committee's activities in the future. A significant feature in 1971 was the preponderance of Northern Territory projects. 
The work which this Committee does in extending the scrutiny of Parliament in the field of Commonwealth public works is of considerable importance. The regular and comprehensive reports which it presents to the Parliament are in themselves evidence of the immense amount of work that the Committee does, and 1 am sure that there will be no objection to increasing the standing appropriation so as to allow the Committee effectively to continue its activities. 
The Parliament approved the existing appropriation of $20,000 in 1965. It was indicated at the time that that amount would suffice for a number of years. The increase to $30,000 now proposed should make it unnecessary to approach the Parliament for minor increases. The amount will assure the Committee adequate finance to meet the relatively small expenses incurred in the performance of its duties. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill provides for the validation until 30th June 1972 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 4 to 6 inclusive which were introduced into the Parliament during this session. The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to the following Tariff Board reports, namely, Industrial Chemicals and Synthetic Resins, etc; and Industrial Gamma Ray Equipment; and the Special Advisory Authority report on Isooctyl Alcohol. 
Having regard to the Government's decision to move to metrication and the recent major nomenclature changes made by the Customs Co-operation Council, Brussels, a new consolidated Schedule will be introduced by 'Gazette' notice and subsequently by Tariff Proposals to operate from 1st July 1972. This Validation Bill validates the collection of duties up to the commencement of these impending changes. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this measure before debate is resumed on the Bill. I would like to suggest, if it suits the convenience of the House, that we have a general debate covering this Bill and Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1971-72, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that both Bills be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Investigations have been made by officers of the Narcotics Bureau but they have been unable to obtain any evidence to support the allegations made by the telephone caller to radio station 3DB. 
Although the caller undertook to forward to the radio station the literature purporting to contain the information this has not yet been received. 
As a copy of the alleged publication has not been obtained I am unable to comment on this aspect. 
For the information of honourable members I present a Tariff Board report on Non Cheddar Cheese (Dumping and Subsidies) Act dated31st December 1971. 
 in reply -  Mr Acting Speaker,  I undertake to bring the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  to the attention of my colleague, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which .the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Redevelopment of No. 2 Stores Depot - Royal Australian Air Force, Regents Park, New South Wales. 
The proposal referred to the Committee involved the construction of a warehouse building, a guard house and control point, alterations to an existing stores building and associated engineering services, roadworks and car park. The estimated cost of the proposed work is S3. 5m. The Committee concluded that there is a need for the work and that it should proceed to construction. Upon the concurrence of the 
House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Erection of a communications tower, Black Mountain, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposal involves the erection on the summit of Black Mountain of a single multi-purpose communications tower, the prime purpose of which is to provide for the expected future growth of radio telephone trunk traffic and television programme relay facilities into and through Canberra. It will also provide for the comasting and accommodation of the present and future television stations at the national capital. In referring the proposal to the Committee, this House asks the Committee to note that the Government has not endorsed a particular design for the tower. It requests that, in its report, the Committee express its views on whether the function of the tower should be confined to communications only or whether, having regard to tourist considerations, it might incorporate certain revenue producing facilities in the form of a rotating restaurant or a viewing platform or both. I table plans showing several possible designs for the proposed tower. The estimated cost of these designs ranges between $5m and $6m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Pursuant to statute I present the reports of the Special Advisory Authority on: 
Continuous filament raw yams of polyamide or polyester; and Resins of the propylene type. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 7 (1972). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1972. The changes arise from reports by the Special Advisory Authority on: 
Continuous filament raw yarns of polyamide or polyester; and 
Resins of the propylene type. 
In his report on continuous filament raw yarns of polyamide or polyester, the Special Advisory Authority found that urgent action should be taken to protect the local industry against imports of raw yarn containing 50 per cent or more of polyamide and/or polyester fibres. He recommended a temporary duty of 45c per pound on imports of these yarns from all sources. The temporary duty is in addition to existing duties of 20 per cent general tariff, 10 per cent preferential tariff on these goods. The Special Advisory Authority also recommended special by-law arrangements to enable individual quotas of continuous filament polyamide and polyester yarns to be imported without attracting the temporary additional duty. Quotas will be based on a percentage of imports of polyamide or polyester yarn during the year ended 30th June 1971 and by-law determinations issued as may be appropriate. 
In his report on resins of the propylene type, the Special Advisory Authority found that urgent action is necessary to protect the Australian industry against low priced imports. He recommended that a temporary support value of $512 per tonne be determined for natural resin and $566 per tonne for other polymers and copolymers. For the information of the House let me say that I am informed that a tonne is equal to 1,000 kilogrammes or 2,205 lb avoirdupois. A temporary support duty of 90 per cent of the support value differential, that is, the amount, if any, by which the landed duty paid cost of the goods falls below the temporary support value, will operate. The temporary support duty is in addition to normal duties of 40 per cent general tariff and 30 per cent preferential tariff, which remain unchanged. An administrative change is also included in the proposals in respect to speedometers and tachometers  for use as original components in the manufacture of motor vehicles. A summary of the changes and duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr J.  F. Cairns) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of new ward and paramedical building at Repatriation General Hospital, Hobart. 
The proposed building will accommodate 60 patient beds together with supporting medical and paramedical facilities and will replace two existing wards of timber construction which have deteriorated to the stage where they need replacing. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2. 2m. In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee also commented on parking facilities. The Committee reported that although the new building will not create any significant additional demands on parking, more on-site parking space should be provided and this would be possible when the adjacent Repatriation branch office is demolished. The report of the Committee has been noted. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance wilh the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that the Commonwealth introduced legislation in 1968 allocating $2.5m to organisations in the States responsible for the training of pre-school teachers. The purpose of the grants was to enable the organisations to construct and equip the facilities necessary for them to double the capacity of existing pre-school teachers colleges. Last year the principal Act, which was due to expire on 30th June 1971, was amended so that the prescribed period during which the Minister may make grants to the States was extended to 31st December 1972. The purpose of this Bill is to amend further the prescribed period so that it will terminate on 31st December 1973 instead of 31st December 1972. It has become necessary because the difficulties of the pre-school teachers colleges in acquiring land and obtaining planning permission which led to the need for the present extension have not been overcome as quickly as hoped. Except in Tasmania, where the State Government accepts responsibility for the training of preschool teachers, the organisations in the States responsible for pre-school teacher training are private organisations. As private organisations they do not have the powers compulsory to acquire land necessary for their expansion. 
Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College has encountered difficulties in acquiring land and in obtaining permits from the local government authority to use land already owned. As a result the trustees of the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College have been unable to start the approved project. They have just recently received advice from the local government authority that a building permit will be issued subject to certain conditions being met. The trustees have accepted the conditions. The Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College will not be able, however, to complete its construction programme by 31st December 1972. The Sydney Day Nursery Association has been able to proceed with its approved project but has met difficulties in purchasing additional land necessary to meet the planning requirements of the local government authority. A statement has been made available to honourable members setting out the progress on the various projects and the expected impact of the programme. The proposed extension of the prescribed period is necessary to enable the programme to achieve its full purpose. I therefore commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of naval support facility, Cockburn Sound, W.A. (H.M.A.S. Stirling). 
The proposal involves the following works: maritime works, wharves, workshops, stores and offices to support 4 escorts and 3 submarines; a large ships wharf, small boat camber and slipway to accommodate ships of the fleet and support craft; barracks, recreational and medical accommodation; armament depot; armament jetty with special facilties for arming submarines; operations headquarters; and communications facilities. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $30m. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee recommended: If tests and evaluations justify the use of carpets as an economic floor covering and if there is no doubt about its suitability, it should be used in single cabins at HMAS 'Stirling; service scales and standards of accommodation should be amended to provide carpet as a floor covering in single cabins; the advice of experts on environmental problems should continue to be sought and implemented during development and occupation of the naval support facility; because of the widespread nature of community interest, day to day care and management of areas of Garden Island open to the public should be a State responsibility. The recommendations regarding carpet as a floor covering have been referred to the appropriate authorities for attention. The advice of experts on environmental matters will be sought during development of the project and in any further development in the future. The matter of day to day care and maintenance of public areas will be referred to my colleague, the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  to take up with the Western Australian Government. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
-I present the reports by the Tariff Board on the following subjects: 
Dimethylamine, dated 18 May 1971; 
Caustic Soda, dated 24 February 1972; 
Toilet Units, dated 6 April 1972. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Re-development of Kormilda College for Aboriginal Students, Darwin. 
The work proposed is the demolition, because of deterioration, of existing wooden buildings erected in 1941-42 and used by the college since 1967 and their replacement with buildings of solid construction. The new buildings will provide residential accommodation and education facilities for a total of 310 students and accommodation for 25 to 30 staff. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3. 3m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
Excise Tariff Proposals (No. 1) 1972. 
Customs Tariff Proposals (No. g) 1972. 
The Tariff Proposals which  1  have just tabled introduce changes to the Excise Tariff and Customs Tariff in respect of duties on wine. The changes operate from tomorrow. Honourable members will recall that earlier this year the Government announced that it was proposed that an independent inquiry of a factual nature would be conducted into various matters relating to the wine industry. Consequently Professor J. McB. Grant, Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Tasmania, was appointed to conduct the inquiry. 
Professor Grant's report on the matters referred to him has now been considered by the Government and a decision has been taken to reduce the excise duty on wine by 25c per gallon. 
This decrease in wine excise will mean a reduction in revenue of approximately $500,000 this financial year and some $7m in a full year. The Customs Tariff proposals which I have tabled effect a complementary reduction in the duties on imported wine. 1 understand that my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  will be releasing a Press statement which will elaborate upon the Government's consideration of Professor Grant's report. I also understand that my colleague will be making copies of the report available to honourable members immediately reprinting has been completed. I commend the proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Ministers responsible for matters of censorship who attended the conference in Sydney on 12th May 1972 were: 
By leave- I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has dutly reported to Parliament: Redevelopment of Alice Springs Hospital, Northern Territory. 
The proposal referred to the Committee included the construction of new buildings and remodelling of some existing buildings to accommodate 313 in-patients and to provide ancillary services and domestic accommodation for the staff. Acting on the recommendations and conclusions in the Committee's interim report tabled on 22nd April 1971, this House resolved on 6th May 1971 that it was expedient to proceed with the proposed work with the exception of the residential buildings for nurses and single medical officers accommodation. 
The final report of the Committee, dated 3rd August 1971, recommends construction of the single medical officers quarters and alterations and additions to the existing nurses' home, as proposed, construction of a reduced capacity new nurses' home, construction of a separate complex of bedsitter units, change room facilities for those staff not living on the premises, and provision of a swimming pool. The Government intends to proceed with the accommodation components of the work in accordance with the Committee's recommendations and on the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning will proceed. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Over the past 5 years, 9 lift manufacturers have supplied lifts for the Commonwealth. 
A private builder would have been required to observe 9 sets of lift regulations (i.e. one set for each State or Territory). He would also have been required to observe 9 sets of building regulations which deal with location and construction of lift shafts, and provision for emergency operation of lifts. 
The lift Authorities and the Department of Works are represented on the Standards Association of Australia Committee which recently revised the S.A.A. Lift Code. The authorities in the Northern Territory and the Territory of Papua and New Guinea have accepted the revised S.A.A. Code, 6 other authorities have or are about to issue regulations which generally accept the revised Code and one authority has not taken any, action. Thus, there has been considerable advance towards uniformity of lift regulations. 
The Department of Works has acted as Secretariat and is now also represented on the interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations, and those portions of building regulations which apply to lift installations have been dealt with by the Committee. Its recommendations are contained in the Australian Model Uniform Building Code which was completed and issued to the administrations for guidance in revisions of their Building Regulations about July 1971. 
Electoral: British Migrants from Malta (Question No. 5798) 
My answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I know nothing of the commercial arrangements made between the holders of the copyright of 'The Little Red Schoolbook' and the publishers of the Australian edition. 
All aspects, save one, of the honourable gentleman's question, deal with matters of Government policy or matters which are the prerogative of other Ministers. I cannot and will not answer the questions on those matters. That part of the question which I can answer is the question whether there will be a reduction in the price of wine following a reduction in the wine excise. To the extent that I cannot anticipate what retailers and wholesalers will do, I cannot answer it, but 1 can give some factual information. From information I have received from my Department, the SO per cent reduction in excise, if it is passed on in mark-ups and so on, should result in a reduction in price of about Se a bottle. 
For the information of honourable members I present a Tariff Board report dated 14th February 1972 on the following subject: 
Fabrics for use in the manufacture of bed mattresses, pillows, etc. 
This report does not call for any legislative action. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. To prevent persons obtaining advance knowledge of duty changes which could be used to gain a commercial or monetary advantage. 
I know of no case where there has been premature disclosure of this knowledge by an officer of my Department. 
Documents are supplied to and handled by a restricted range of persons on a strictly 'need to know' basis. 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
A.C. Generators Exceeding 120 kVA; Rotary 
Converters Exceeding SO kW; Hand Tools; Interchangeable Tools, etc.; Hardened Casein, etc. (New Zealand-Australia 
Because this matter could be sub judice the honourable member will forgive me for answering the question in a different way from which it was put to me. The honourable member will recall writing to me, I think in June, pointing out that certain auction sales which purported to be auction sales of customs goods were taking place, whereas in fact the sales were not of goods that had been confiscated by my Department. We have conducted extensive inquiries and have discovered that there has been some confusion, either deliberately or accidentally caused, not only in Victoria but in other States, by use of the word 'custom' in the advertising matter and, in some cases, by salesmen wearing uniforms that bordered perilously close to those uniforms used by customs officers some years ago. The matter has been referred, in certain specific cases, to the Crown Law authorities and other action is being taken to make the public aware of this matter. I might say that when such sales of confiscated customs goods are made they are advertised by the Collector of Customs in each State and the sales are conducted through reputable, well recognised auctioneers only. I thank the honourable gentleman for bringing the matter to my attention. 
I ask leave of the House to move a motion to enable the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  to move forthwith a motion of no confidence in the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  of which he : has given notice for the next sitting. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 9 (1972) Customs Tariff Proposals No. 10 (1972) Customs Tariff Proposals No. 11 (1972) Customs Tariff Proposals No. 12 (1972) Customs Tariff Proposals No. 13 (1972) Excise Tariff Proposals No. 2 (1972) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 13 (1972) and Excise Tariff Propoals No. 2 (1972), which I have just tabled, introduce tariff changes foreshadowed by my colleague, the honourable the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in his Budget Speech earlier this evening. These changes operate from tomorrow. The Propoals will permit the entry, free of excise of Customs duty, of tobacco, cigarettes, cigars ond snuff, for use in approved medical or other scientific research programmes. The Excise Tariff Proposals also introduce changes in respect of duties on gasoline and other shale spirit, and mineral turpentine, produced from shale mined in Australia. Formerly these products were entered free of duty. However, the need for the concession no longer exists and the opportunity is being taken to simplify the Excise Tariff. A summary of these alterations is being circulated to honourable members. 
I also tabled Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 9 to 12 (1972). These Proposals formally place before Parliament the tariff changes made while the Parliament was in recess. The were published by notice in Commonwealth Gazettes of 5th and 30th June and 3rd and 28th July 1972. The changes arise from the Government's decisions following receipt of the following Tariff Board reports: AC generators exceeding 120 kVA; rotary converters exceeding 50 kW; hand tools; interchangeable tools, etc.; shipbuilding; and shot angular grit and wire pellets of iron or steel. Other changes extend the list of commodities to which the New Zeland-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. 
Honourable members were supplied with details of the changes in tariff protection by my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  at the times the Gazette notices were made. Proposals No. 10 (1972) provides for the conversion of all imperial measurements in the Customs Tariff to their metric equivalents in accordance with the Government's decision to adopt the metric system. Rates of duty have been adjusted accordingly. The Proposals also include amendments to align the Australian Customs Tariff with recent amendments to the Brussels Nomenclature. Any changes in duty rates are minimal. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House introduces a tax of 3c per litre on liquefied gas which is used for propelling road vehicles. My colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  foreshadowed the introduction of this tax in his Budget Speech earlier this evening. The Bill relates only to liquefied gas used in propelling road vehicles and does not in any way affect the bulk of liquefied gas which is used for industrial and domestic heating and cooking and for many other purposes. It is proposed that the tax will come into effect on and from a date to be proclaimed. A summary of the clauses in the Bill is being circulated. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The Bill now before the House is complementary to the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Bill 1972 which has just been introduced. The Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Bill 1972 provides the administrative machinery which will become necessary for the collection of the tax on liquefied gas used in propelling road vehicles when the tax comes into effect. A summary of the clauses in the Bill is being circulated. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
House adjourned  at  10  .3  p.m. 
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS UPON NOTICE The following answers to questions upon notice were circulated: 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
in reply - I wish to reply first to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The points he made might well be valid so far as the activities of hire purchase companies are concerned but they have nothing whatever to do with the payment of bounty. Surely this point was overlooked by the honourable member: Notwithstanding what local manufacturers do or what price is paid, the buyer still has the choice of buying the imported product or the local product. Surely the imported product, which is produced more cheaply, is the reason why the bounty is needed to equate the price of the locally manufactured product with the price of the imported product I would have thought that there is an inbuilt mechanism there to keep the local people honest. 
This is the philosophy of free enterprise that is espoused by those on this side of the House. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)  - Order!' The honourable member for Riverina has already spoken. 
I did not interrupt the honourable member for Riverina when he spoke. With the deepest courtesy to him, if ever I am at the table again in charge of a Bill to which the honourable member is speaking, I plead with him to reduce the tone of the shirts he wears, because pleasing as his physiognomy is, it is quite blinding to look at him when he is wearing the tone of shirt he has on tonight. 
I refer now to the question asked by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I am not here to defend the Tariff Board or do the opposite. I just state the facts and answer the questions that the honourable member asks. The reference was sent to the Board, as I informed him, on 14th October 1970. It is understood that the Board has completed all public hearings and assembled all evidence and that the report could be ready by October 1972. The Board has considered not only the bounty but the question of assistance to all types of tractors, both agricultural and industrial. The report is a most complex one, requiring a considerable amount of research, evidence and investigation by the Board. 
Having answered that question I supply some other information that was not asked for. It might be of interest to the 3 members who have participated in the debate. The estimated cost for the 6 months is about $1.5m. I conclude by commenting again that one must compliment the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Riverina for their honesty, because they have shown quite palpable what action a Labor government would take in regard to the Tariff Board. The honourable member for Lalor, who is the shadow Minister for Trade and Industry and who, if a Labor government is elected, would presumably become the Minister for Trade and Industry, has shown unmistakably again tonight that as a member of a Labor government he will have no hesitation, when submitting matters to the Tariff Board, in instructing the Tariff Board virtually how to make a finding. Let industry beware that if a Labor government is elected the autonomy, the independence, of the Tariff Board will be gone and gone forever. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I move: 
Customs  Tariff  Proposals No. 14 (1972). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled propose customs tariff amendments to implement the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations in its report on metal working machine tools and accessories. 
My colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  released the Tariff Board report last week. This was necessary because certain temporary duties were due to expire at that time and it was important that manufacturers and importers be informed on the new measures of assistance proposed for the local industry. I seek leave of the House to have his Press statement incorporated in Hansard. 
I ask for the leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain Tariff Proposals which were moved earlier in the year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 87. These Proposals were incorporated in Customs Tariff Proposals No. 10 (1972) which will remain on the notice paper. 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Metal working machine tools and accessories; and 
Copper oxychloride (Dumping and Subsidies Act). 
The latter report does not require any legislative action. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move that for the remainder of the session unless otherwise ordered the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at 11 a.m. or at such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  shall take the chair, on each Wednesday at 10.30 a.m. and on each Thursday at 10 a.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House gives effect to the Government's decision to extend the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers at the existing level of $80 per lon of contained nitrogen until 31st December 1974; to change the basis on which certain imports of nitrogenous fertilisers become eligible for subsidy, and to express the subsidy rate in metric terms on and from 1st July 1973. The Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act 1966-1969 expires on 3 1st October 1972 and the proposed extension brings the future termination of this Act into line with the expiry date of the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Act. 
Since the inception of this subsidy the case for assistance has rested on the lowering of farm costs, the encouragement of new farming techniques and the fostering of export earnings. Honourable members will agree that these objectives are being substantially achieved. Following introduction of the subsidy, the quantities of elemental nitrogen on which fertiliser subsidy was paid increased from 84,100 tons in 1966-67 to a peak of 138,200 tons in 1968-69. Consumption subsequently fell to 121,500 tons in 1970-71, due primarily to drought and wheat quotas. For 1971-72, subsidy payments indicate a slight recovery to 122,000 tons. The potential for increasing nitrogenous fertiliser use has been nowhere near fully realised. Use of these fertilisers should continue to expand with extension of the subsidy. Subsidy payments are estimated at $1Om for 1972-73, the equivalent of 125,000 tons of nitrogen. 
Provision presently exists in the Act for subsidy to be paid on undumped imported nitrogenous fertilisers, when the importer is also the user of the fertilisers, providing the Australian producer is not prepared to supply like or directly competitive fertilisers to the importer/user on terms as favourable as the import transaction. The amendment contained in the Bill will extend this principle to all importers irrespective of whether or not they are users of the fertilisers. This will ensure that importers who are also distributors have access to subsidised supplies. Primary producers will continue to have the opportunity to purchase their fertiliser requirements at the lower of the subsidised undumped import price or the subsidised domestic price. These changes will have no effect on the Minister's power to direct that no subsidy be paid where fertiliser selling prices do not pass on the full benefit of the subsidy. The opportunity has also been taken to convert the rate of subsidy to metric terms as from 1st July 1973. This is the date selected by industry for its conversion. In metric terms, subsidy will be paid at the rate of S78.74 per tonne, the metric equivalent to the current rate of S80 per ton. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent government business taking precedence of general business on each sitting day until Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972-73 has passed all stages in the House. 
This motion follows the practice adopted in many past years. Similar motions have been passed by the House for as long as I have been in the Parliament. The reasons for the motion are these: The Budget session usually commences at about mid-August when the Budget is delivered, and we are limited at the other end of the session by Christmas which means a rising of the House some time in November. If it is an election year then it will usually be earlier. The timing of a Budget session necessarily means that on average there will be 2 weeks to debate the Budget itself, 3 to 4 weeks to debate the Estimates and then X weeks to debate the Bills that naturally flow from the Budget. These Bills would introduce amendments to, for example, the taxation Acts, the social services Acts, the repatriation Act, the Home Savings Grant Act or other Acts. This year there are some 37 such Bills among the Budget Bills to be introduced and these will take up an appreciable time. So with 2 weeks for the Budget debate, 4 weeks for the Estimates debate and some further time for the debate on the Budget Bills, our time will be taken up for 7 or 8 weeks or more into the future. In addition the Government has a heavy legislative programme of non-Budget Bills which it regards as essential. It is for these reasons that I am moving this motion. 
During the Budget debate and Estimates debate the opportunities for honourable members to debate virtually any subject they choose are unlimited. In the Budget debate almost complete freedom is allowed to honourable members to speak about anything, and likewise in the Estimates debate. I might mention in passing that on alternate Thursdays, when the Standing Orders provide that grievances be noted, I will be moving that the grievance debate be further postponed because it also comes under Government business. I appreciate that what I have proposed is some intrusion into the rights of private members but I hope that the common sense of honourable members and the co-operation that the Opposition has already shown in these matters will prevail. Honourable members will have an opportunity to debate general matters during the debates on the Budget, the Estimates and the various Budget Bills, as well as on the adjournment debates, in respect of which I am sure we can come to some common-sense compromise with members of the Opposition to provide reasonable time for members to speak. At the same time I know that Opposition members will realise that sitting days are very long days for many members of this Parliament, some of whom are no longer young. Most honourable members start working at 9 a.m. on committees or on their other duties, and to work from 9 a.m. right through until 11 p.m. every night for 3 nights, particularly when the proposed changes in sitting times come into effect, puts a toll on even young men. Even when the motion for adjournment is put at 11 p.m. the adjournment debate normally continues for an hour or so, which brings us to midnight. I would appeal to honourable members to consider the convenience and health of some of those members who are not as young as they used to be. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a Royal Australian Army Service Corps centre at Puckapunyal, Victoria. 
The proposed centre will comprise: School complex for training corps personnel, sleeping accommodation for all ranks, extensions to existing messes, driver training circuit and helipad, transport compound with associated administration and workshop buildings, area supply depot complex, sports pavilion and playing fields, and associated engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $8.4m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work and has recommended its construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
by leave - I move: 
Thatin accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972 leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works to meet during the sitting of the House on Tuesday, 29th August 1972. 
I thank the Opposition for its co-operation in this matter. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Hindmarsh will agree with me when I say that there is no harder working or less appreciated committee of this House than the Public Works Committee. 
 Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That  tor  the remainder of the session, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on each Tuesday at eleven o'clock a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair, on each Wednesday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
The purpose of this motion which I foreshadowed yesterday is to provide for additional sitting hours which will be necessary if the House is to deal effectively with the very heavy legislative programme ahead. This year it is considerably heavier than it was in other recent election years. We have a heavy volume of legislation flowing from decisions announced in the Budget. As stated yesterday about 37 Bills stem from the Budget and in addition there is a considerable number of important nonBudget Bills some of which, it is anticipated, will require considerable debate. In addition to the earlier sitting hour each day as set out in the motion we propose that the time set aside for meals should be slightly shortened as follows: Lunch from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m.; dinner from 6.15 to 8 p.m. This will mean truncating both meal breaks each sitting day by a quarter of an hour. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  has mentioned that on 13th September it is planned to hold a dinner for the distinguished right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  He has asked whether the House could rise at 6 o'clock that night and I suggested to him that with your consent,  Mr Speaker,  we might accommodate the Labor Party on that score. The net effect of the proposals will be to add  6i  hours of debating time to each of the future weeks in the session. We realise that honourable members will suffer some inconvenience because of the new arrangements but I think it will be preferred by all members to the alternative of sitting additional days, either Mondays or Fridays, or in the weeks off that are planned. Perhaps I should add that we cannot rule out the possibility that at a later stage in the session it may be necessary to consider sitting additional days. We also hope - I have a very firm feeling on this and I am sure that most honourable members would agree - that we will avoid late sittings as far as is practicable. 
My final point is that the motion indicates that the House will meet on Tuesdays at 11 a.m. 'or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair'. This is to provide some flexibility to meet unusual circumstances such as a fog at Canberra Airport. In this way changes to members' normal travelling times can be kept to a minimum. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Extension of 17/35 runway, taxiways and aprons at Canberra (Fairbairn) Airport. 
The proposed work involves the extension of the 17/35 runway by 2,000 ft to the south with associated parallel taxiway, extension of the terminal apron and development of a new general aviation apron. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2.25m. The Committee concluded that there is a need for the work and recommended that it proceed to construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have  written  to the honourable member on this matter suggesting that if he desires further information he should contact the authority through the appropriate Minister. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works foc investigation and report: Construction of primary and pre-school at Tennant Creek, N.T. 
The proposed school will provide accommodation for 550 primary students and 50 pre-school children in the new developing area of Tennant Creek East. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.1 5m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of post office and administrative building at Bathurst, New South Wales. 
The proposal is to construct a building comprising a basement, ground floor level post office and 3 upper floors of office space. The Australian Post Office will occupy all but the top floor, which will provide accommodation for the Departments of the Interior, Labour and National Service, Social Services, Health and Housing, and the Taxation Office. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.5m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work and recommends its construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Tiwi and Wanguri schools, Darwin. 
The work proposed is the construction of a primary and pre-school in each of the new Darwin subdivisions of Tiwi and Wanguri. They are designed to accommodate 635 and 600 students respectively and, except for a slightly larger pre-school at Tiwi, are generally of the same design. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 1.06m for the Tiwi school and $1.02m for the Wanguri school. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work and recommends its construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on  which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of extensions to studios of Commonwealth Film Unit at Lindfield, N.S.W. 
The proposed extensions will be of similar 2-storey construction to the existing studios and will provide additional studios, a presentation theatre, film laboratories and associated administrative offices. The estimated cost of the proposed work is$1. 7m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work and recommends its construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972 leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works until the end of the present period of sittings to meet during sittings of the House on each Tuesday. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of Nadzab (T.P.N.G.) Airport. 
The proposed work is for the development of the existing airport facilities at Nadzab to a stage which will allow the transfer of airport activities from the Lae Airport. 
It will include: Strengthening the existing runways and taxiways and construction of additional taxiways; construction of aircraft parking area's; construction of operation, terminal and maintenance buildings and associated engineering services; and provision of general electrical reticulation, roads, drainage, fencing and river protection works. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3. 85m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works until the end of the present period of sittings to meet during sittings of the House on each Tuesday. 
I understand that this is a unanimous wish of the Public Works Committee. I have sought agreement from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  and he has given his agreement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of new 14L/32R runway and associated works at Port Moresby Airport. 
The proposed work comprises: Construction of new 14L/32R runway of 9,000 ft- 2,750 metres - length and associated taxiways; Extension of existing terminal apron and strengthening of portions of existing parallel taxiway and terminal apron, and associated engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7. 5m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
No. 
. (c), (d), (e) and (0 I am unable to provide accurate statistics on the number of people in Australia who are dependent on drugs. This matter is of course one for the State Health authorities. 
The National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence has long recognised the deficiencies in this area, and is currently taking steps to improve the methods of collecting and collating statistics of drug dependent persons on a uniform basis throughout Australia. At the Ministerial Conference on Drug Abuse held in Adelaide on 11th August 1972 arrangements were finalised for a trial to be conducted by the Victorian Government on methods of collecting and unifying statistics of dependency. 
May 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House  to  have a general debate covering this Bill and the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter  of  both Bills  to be  discussed in this debate. 
by leave  -  I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a Commonwealth Office Block at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the construction of a 3-storey office block as the first stage of a Commonwealth complex which ultimately will include a Supreme Court, a post office and a communications building. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 1.25m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
May I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the Committee to consider the items of proposed expenditure in the order and groupings shown in the Schedule circulated to honourable members, which are as follows: 

<graphic href="079131197208313_85_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="079131197208313_85_1.jpg"></graphic>

Consideration of the items in groups of departments which have a functional association with one another has met the convenience of the Committee in past years. I also take the opportunity to indicate to the Committee that the proposed order for consideration of the estimates of departments, as well as the time to be made available for debate on each department or group of departments, has been discussed with the Opposition, which has raised no objection to what has been proposed. 
I seek leave to make  a  statement. I will take only about 2 minutes to do so. 
toy leave - I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a new power station at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a power station comprising steel-framed power station building to house 3 1.4MW Diesel generators, auxiliaries, crane, switchgear and controls; steel-framed distribution workshop building; bulk fuel storage; and, services to the site. At present, Tennant Creek is supplied with power by Peko Mines NL under contract, but notice has been given by the company that it will cease to supply power after 1st November 1974. The estimated cost of the proposed work is SI. 8m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
 All I wish to say is that I will undertake to submit to my colleague in the Senate, the Minister for 
Works  (Senator Wright),  all the speeches that have been made on this resolution and I will draw his attention to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I believe I should reply briefly to some of the comments that have been made about this motion, particularly concerning my part in it. This is the end of the third week of our first session during which I have been Leader of the House. This House cannot function without close co-operation between the Leader of the House and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  In this 3 weeks the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has gone out of his way to co-operate with me at all times for the smooth running of the House. For my part, I have been meticulous in informing the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of the Government's intentions as far as its legislative and other programmes in this House are concerned. There has not been one thing which the Government has introduced about which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has not had prior notice. There have been occasions when it would have suited the Government's convenience to have brought some business on, but because it did not suit the convenience of the Opposition I willingly yielded to the wishes of the Opposition for the purpose of gaining co-operation. The question before the House is a case in point. Notice of this proposal could have been given on Tuesday week, 12th September, and the resolution could have been debated on the 13 th. 
But the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee made representations to me in which he said that it would suit the convenience of the Committee to have this matter referred to it now. I am surprised that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  - both very hard working and dedicated members of the Committee - did not make this point in their speeches. I have said publicly in my capacity as the Minister representing in this chamber the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that there is no harder working committee of this Parliament than the Public Works Committee. As I say, the proposition was put to me, as the Minister representing in this chamber the Minister for Works, by the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee that it would suit the convenience of the Committee to have this referral - and it is only a referral. I have another proposal to put forward to the Committee in a moment. 
Accordingly, the matter was processed today by my colleague in another place and at approximately 5 o'clock this afternoon I sought the agreement of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to have this matter brought on tonight. It was not listed on the blue sheet; I apologise for that but I have given the reasons. The Deputy Leader of  the Opposition agreed  to give me leave to move this motion and another motion tonight, and I thank him for his co-operation. I can understand the attitude expressed in the speeches that have been made. I realise that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has to appear, to his own Party, to be aggressive, particularly at this time, but when an agreement is made in his room it is a bit hurtful for me to sit here and be accused by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition of not informing him of developments. For that reason I wanted to inform the House of the correct position, and I thank the House for its indulgence. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker,  it has been my practice as a Minister to refrain from speaking on the adjournment debate but on this occasion I am moved to refer to the charges made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  last evening on the administration of the indigenous oil. policy - charges which should not be allowed to go unchallenged because they are on record and, if they are unchallenged, they might be believed by default. However, in replying to the charges I am inhibited in replying in detail to the accusations made by the honourable member because of the rather delicate stage that has been reached in the pertinent negotiations between the companies. The honourable member alleged that all major oil companies and refiners in Australia including Ampol and H. C. Sleigh, are acting in collusion with this Government to squeeze the 2 small Melbourne-based independent marketers out of existence on the grounds that the Government parties receive thousands of dollars for election purposes from the international oil cartel. He went on to attack me personally and the only interpretation which could be drawn was that I am personally guilty of conniving in an exploitation by the major refiners of these 2 small independent companies. 
The name of the honourable member's game is politics, and the way he has played it since he was elected to this House has been to sprinkle all of his speeches - perhaps 'litter' would be a better word - with personal venom against individuals on this side of the House. It is a practice which 1 personally abhor. But as his own Leader said on television last night, politicians must be prepared to have such allegations thrust at them. However, this honourable member went further. He included in his attack, by inference - indeed almost explicitly - the dedicated officers of the Department of Customs and Excise and brought their integrity into question. The honourable member said he was speaking quite bluntly. Let me be equally blunt with him.  His  speech consisted of a collection of scurrilous, unwarranted and unjustified allegations devoid of truth. He said: '1 wish I had time to give the facts.'  Mr Speaker,  he did have time, but he chose not to give the facts. Instead, he launched into one of the most irrational attacks I have heard in this House. As I said before, it is inopportune for me to debate the charges in detail tonight because 1 am not prepared to prejudice the outcome of current negotiations being conducted between the refiners and the independents, which have reached a delicate stage. However, there are some points which the honourable member would be well advised to study in order that his next contribution to an adjournment debate will be more factual and more honest than his last. 
The honourable member alleges that as a result of the Government's actions the price of petrol in our community is 2c to 3c a gallon more than it need be. The facts are that the retail price of petrol is set by a Labor Government in South Australia, his home State, through the operations of the Prices Commissioner of South Australia. The honourable member seems to applaud price cutting wars and the importation of petrol in job lots from overseas. This attitude has a certain superficial appeal. This Government is certainly not against petro) being sold at the lowest possible price. The honourable member was rightly concerned for the little bloke, as he called him; the small independent marketers. So are we. However, has he given any thought to those other little blokes - the hard working proprietors of petrol stations whose livelihood can be devastated by irrational price cutting wars. The Government is most concerned for the thousands of people employed in this country in the refining and distribution of petroleum products. There are 4,000 workers employed in refining and 25,000 employed in marketing and distribution. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a Tariff Board report on Phthalic Anhydride (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 30th June 1972. This report does not call for any legislative action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The theme of the drug education programmes which have been set up in the Stales through the Drug Education Sub-Committee is Education for Living'. The programmes do not single out or place undue emphasis on a particular drug, although the sub-committee's primary aim is to educate in the area of narcotic drugs. 
The honourable member will be aware of my numerous statements claiming that alcohol and tobacco are the 2 most addictive 'killer' drugs in our society. 
I, too, have received many letters from parents who are concerned that some of this talcum powder which allegedly caused the death of 20 babies in France might have found its way to Australia. I have had my Department make inquiries into this matter. It has been established that none of this powder has been imported into Australia. I have given instructions for the Department to be on the lookout for it and, if any of it is brought in, it will be immediately referred to the Commonwealth health authorities for report. 
I am not rising to speak to the question. 
Yes. I have been personally misrepresented. I will be very brief. The honourable gentleman stated that he did not make any personal attack on me the other evening. If I have misunderstood him I apologise, but for the record I quote from page 972 of Hansard where, after saying that the Government was in collusion with the oil companies and that it had conspired to assist them, the honourable member said:   . . may I say quite bluntly that I believe it is because the 2 Government Parties receive donations amounting to thousands of dollars for election purposes from the companies of the international oil cartel. 
I leave it to the House to judge whether that implicitly or explicitly means a personal attack. 
I wish to speak briefly, and only to the motion,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will not crave your indulgence or lean upon it, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  did. In this particular circumstance we do not deny the Leader of the Opposition the opportunity to make capital for the Australian Labor Party out of the dilemma which the Government faces. That is fair politics. That is notwithstanding the fact that, as he knows, today the Leader of the Opposition and other members of the Labor Party will get at least 2 other opportunities to speak specifically to this question. But we do not blame him for what he has done. This is an election year and the proceedings of the 
Parliament are now being broadcast but will not be broadcast this afternoon. We do not blame him for playing politics. 
I believe that one of the most unspeakable things I have heard - unworthy of the Leader of the. Opposition and surprising that it should come from a man such as he - is his statement that the only reason this Government moved the campers from opposite Parliament House was because they were black. I completely deny that and I resent it. It is a contemptible thing to say. The Leader of the Opposition has joined with other men of goodwill in this country in trying to spread tolerance and understanding and to remove racial prejudice but that kind of remark will inflame prejudice in this country. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Redevelopment of Kormilda College for Aboriginal Students, Darwin. 
The proposal involves the construction of new buildings to provide residential and educational facilities for 310 male and female Aboriginal students preparing for secondary education or undertaking 3-year post primary courses. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3.3m. The Committee concluded that there is a need for the work and recommends that it proceed to construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Shepparton (Vic.) post office and telephone exchange. 
The proposal is for the demolition of the existing post office and its replacement by a new post office and telephone exchange. The new building will house a ground floor post office and two upper floors of telephone exchange equipment. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.4m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the work and recommends its construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to explain that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  on behalf of the Australian Labour Party, has agreed to allow this Bill to go through today so that the benefits can flow to aged people. The Government is grateful for that suggestion and will co-operate. 
I hope that those honourable members who wish to speak will limit their remarks so that the passage of this Bill and the next Bill to be introduced by the Minister can be expedited. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
 I believe that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has made a very good point. I will be pleased to discuss it with the  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. If he is able to give the  Clerk  the names of the works on which he is presenting the reports, we will be delighted to make arrangements to put those names on the blue sheet. I think the honourable member has a good point. 
 I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
In moving this motion, let me say that because the statement is of great national importance many honourable members will want to speak to it. So, the arrangement is that tonight the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who is the shadow Minister in this field, and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  will speak; and I give an undertaking to the House that the debate will be resumed at an early date. 
I would like to reply briefly to the point made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  As the honourable member knows the question of the Boyd Plateau is a matter for the State Government as land use is a prerogative of State governments. The New South Wales Government has a Minister for the Environment. However, I will refer the honourable member's question to my colleague the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Insulators; porcelain or glass insulators (Dumping and Subsidies Act); 
Fittings and mountings, hat-racks, etc., of base metal; and 
Ceramic tableware, etc. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of central zone sewerage scheme, Darwin. 
The proposal is for the construction of pumping stations, gravity and rising mains, and a lime precipitation treatment scheme incorporating sludge incineration and disposal of effluent. In May 1969 the Committee, as then constituted, reported favourably on a proposed scheme for the augmentation of Darwin sewerage services which included sewage disposal both in the northern and central zones of the city, the latter terminating in a sea outfall approximately 1 i miles off-shore. 
Construction of the northern zone scheme was completed in 1971 but before a contract was let for the work in the central zone, which was then estimated to cost $2. 75m, persistently strong concern was expressed publicly in Darwin that the proposed sea outfall would not in itself provide a satisfactory means of disposal. In particular, there was concern that the relatively untreated sewage disposed into deep water off-shore could cause pollution of Darwin Harbour. Having regard for this concern, the Government decided that although it considered the central zone proposal economic and reasonable in the circumstances it should be referred back to the Parliamentary Committee on Public Works for further review to give the people of Darwin further opportunity to express their views and to bring forward any additional evidence which had been obtained subsequent to the previous public hearing in 1969. 
Subsequently in August 1971 the scheme as originally proposed, but updated in detail and estimated to cost S3. 2m. was referred back to the Committee. In November 1971 the Committer reported that it was not expedient to proceed with the proposal as submitted and that the means of treatment and disposal of sewage from the central zone should be reconsidered. This was done and various schemes which had been considered previously but which had been set aside on account of cost or for some other reason were further developed along with another possible alternative. In July 1972 several alternative schemes, each of which was more costly than the original scheme, were referred to the Committee with a recommendation for a scheme which provided for treatment of the sewage at Ludmilla before discharge to the sea. The method of treatment is a lime treatment method which is new in Australia. This was not submitted to the Committee before, although other methods of treatment before discharge into Ludmilla Creek were examined. This scheme, although more costly than the one originally proposed and endorsed by the Committee in 1969, removed the fear held by many people of pollution to Darwin Harbour. The Committee has now reported favourably on this scheme and recommends that it proceed to construction. The estimated cost of the work as now proposed is $4. 8m. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I will be pleased to receive the petition, and if the honourable gentleman wishes to organise a delegation of representatives of the people who signed the petition I will be very pleased to speak with them. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall that in the course of his Budget Speech my colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  announced that the Government would introduce a tax on liquefied gas used in propelling road vehicles. The purpose of the tax was to guard against the possible future erosion of the base on which petrol excise is levied. At the moment untaxed liquefied gas enjoys a considerable competitive advantage over petrol and other taxed fuels. 
While the Government is mindful of its responsibility to protect the revenue from petrol excise, it has decided for several reasons not to proceed with the tax at this stage. The situation will be kept under review, however, and in the meantime the Government will seek to draw on the experience of governments in other countries which have introduced similar taxes in recent years. The Government has also decided to maintain the statutory exemption from excise on products refined from shale oil as an incentive to the development within Australia of a technology for the future efficient commercial utilisation of oil shale. 
-I  move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Commonwealth Offices at Port Moresby, Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
The proposed building will be a reinforced concrete structure comprising ground floor and 11 upper floors. It will have a theatrette and an exhibition area at ground floor. Upper floors will provide office accommodation. It is proposed that the building be located at Waigani, approximately 6 miles from the present commercial area of Port Moresby. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.65m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As the honourable gentleman would know, I can make no comments about the specific case to which he refers. However, I can say that I am persuaded that international drug running syndicates are directing their attention more and more to Australia, and this does cause us great concern. Last night approximately 130 lb of first quality hashish was seized. It has a black market value of something like $200,000. This brings the total quantity of cannabis seized this year to approximately 400 kilos as against a total seized last year of 200 kilos and a total the year before of 100 kilos. The fact is that in each of the last 4 years the rate of seizure of cannabis and all other drugs has been virtually doubling. To give an indication of the sophistication of syndicates and of techniques, I point out that this present shipment was allegedly found laminated into the bases of packing cases containing an aromatic cooking oil from the Lebanon. 
As I have said before, the matter does cause concern. Unhappily I cannot give a guarantee, notwithstanding the efficiency of the Federal narcotics squad and the cooperation of State police, that we are seizing any more than between  10  per cent and  15  per cent of the total of drugs being smuggled into the country. If honourable members who are better at arithmetic than I am, worked out the total amount of drugs smuggled into the country if  15  per cent equals  400  kilos, they would be concerned about the amount of hashish and cannabis that was smuggled into Australia this year and consumed by Australian youngsters. 
The honourable gentleman would know that the powers that I have to refer such matters to the Tariff Board are restricted with regard to the question of bylaw entry. By-law entry can be granted by me if a suitable equivalent to the goods to be imported is not reasonably available in Australia. I also have power to make that decision without reference to the Tariff 
Board. It has been my practice of late, since the ninth member was appointed to the Tariff Board with a view to expediting these matters, of referring difficult cases or cases of some complexity to the Tariff Board. One difficulty here is that it does take time and it is my hope that this matter, which has been aired very much in the Press recently, can be resolved to the satisfaction of all parties. 
At this time, negotiations and discussions are taking place between the parties concerned and my Department with a view to establishing whether material, which in fact would constitute a suitable equivalent, can be sourced and produced in Australia. I am hopeful that the matter can be resolved to the satisfaction of Australian industry and, at the same time, of the company that wishes to construct the line so that the best of all worlds can be achieved and so that Australian industry can absorb this work to the full extent of its capacity, thus ensuring the maximum of employment. At the same time, I hope that the amount of the order which cannot be so satisfied in Australia can be imported without the unnecessary impact of the duty, thus reducing basic unit costs for industry and keeping inflation at bay. I believe that any further comment at this stage from me or any other honourable member would be counterproductive, because negotiations are taking place. I would prefer those negotiations between the parties involved to take place in the privacy of discussion rather than from the rooftops, with the parties shouting at each other through the medium of newspapers. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Gift Duty Bill and the Gift Duty Assessment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
When I replied to the honourable member's Question No. 5977 concerning the revised Standards Association of Australia Lift Code, I suggested that if he required further information on the subject, then he should contact the authority through the appropriate Minister. 
I am not in possession of the information required, and I again suggest that the honourable member should direct his enquiry to the appropriate authority. 
Three honourable members had something to say during this debate about the estimates for my Department. I would like briefly to reply to each of them. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  made a very helpful speech and I thank him for his remarks. He expressed concern at the extent of drug smuggling into Australia. He directed his attention particularly to the Port of Brisbane, an area which he represents, and he properly asked me this question: 'Is the launch service in that Port adequate to cope with the known drug smuggling that takes place into Australia?' While his speech was helpful it lacked specifics. He said - and I wrote down what he said - that he has information given to him by people about specific instances of drug smuggling. I would be pleased to receive that sort of information or any other information which the honourable gentleman has. It would be treated in the strictest confidence. I can understand the reluctance of his constituents to divulge thennames because, as the honourable gentleman would know, the creatures who engage in drug smuggling are not the sort to stop at violent measures if they knew they were being informed upon. The honourable member did say he had information. I give him an open invitation to his constituents to produce the information and assure them of our gratitude if the information is provided. 
The honourable member quite properly said that a great deal of the success of our work comes as a result of information given by informers. Informers can come from 2 different sources - those who are fortuitous and those who are not fortuitous.  His  constituents could provide very useful information. The honourable member would know, however, that we do have other methods other than those of launches in detecting drug smuggling. There are many varied methods which 1 know he would not want me to disclose publicly. The honourable member asked: 'ls the craft being used efficiently?' Apparently he has spoken to some of my officers who have suggested that it is not. 1 give him an undertaking that I will personally look into the running sheet and operations of the craft. As 1 understand it we have on*; craft in Brisbane, one in Gladstone, one in Cairns and one at Thursday Island at the present time. These craft are used for other Customs purposes and are not restricted solely to detecting drug smuggling. But I do put this to the honourable member - and he will see the point in a flash when 1 mention it - that not all Customs surveillance in harbours is done by Customs launches. Quite often it would be stupid to use Customs launches to trail a ship up the harbour. We know about the technique which he mentioned of a smuggler on board a ship dropping contraband or drugs overboard with a weight or sinker and float attached so that the contraband or drugs remain a foot or 2 below the surface of the water and that at a pre-arranged signal a fast launch comes off the shore and frogmen gather in the goods. The honourable member might recall such an occurrence happened in Melbourne about 18 months ago when one or 2 of the frogmen were drowned because they panicked. I suggest to the honourable member that the chap who drops a package over the side is not likely to do it if the launch following the ship is flying  Her  Majesty's flag. I would have thought that it is commonsense for any law enforcement agency to act under cover and to hire the most unlikely looking launch from a private entrepreneur for use in Customs work. I must say that this opportunity has not passed us by. I thank him for his information and I undertake to do what he asks. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  also mentioned the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise. I thought he made an extraordinary speech. He was making representations about a constituent of his, a  Mr C.  O. Ashton, about whom he had written to me on one or 2 occasions.  Mr Ashton  wished to be able to set up some form of duty free shop at Australian airports so that Australians returning from abroad, instead of buying concession goods overseas and bringing them back with them, would be able to purchase them at Australian airports thus giving business to Australian enterprise. I wrote back what I thought was a reasonable letter. In it I said that for very good reasons we would not agree to the proposal. In any case, the Department of Civil Aviation would raise very real objections to it. It would make the clearance of passengers almost impossible. As the honourable gentleman knows in his own city a couple of weeks ago, because a couple of Jumbo jets were late and a couple early, 1,600 people arrived at Mascot Airport within about an hour. I need only state that fact for the honourable gentleman to realise the chaos that would result if all these people bought goods at a shop. 
No, because they came from different ports. On this particular occasion there were 6 or 7 aircraft coming from 6 or 7 different places, such as Singapore, Djakarta and New Zealand. Concentrated in customs halls at Mascot there would be 1,600 potential customers instead of 300 at the places from which they came. In addition to that there are many and varied reasons why we rejected the proposal. 
I wrote to the honourable gentleman about them and I suspect that he thought my reply, while he might not have agreed with it, was reasonable and gave reasons. But then he saw an article in the 'Australian Financial Review', I believe it was, which said that this concept was to be adopted or it was almost a fait accompli. The honourable gentleman has been in this place a long time - probably longer than I. He should know that an honourable member does not come into the Parliament and attack a Minister on the basis of a newspaper report. That report was absolute rubbish. What the basis of it was I do not have the faintest idea. This report in the Financial Review' appeared categoric and unequivocal, but there is not the slightest basis of truth in it and the reasons I gave him in the letter I wrote still stand. Had the newspaper report been true the honourable gentleman would have had every right to come into this House quite upset that I had misled him, but this was not the case. I hope that my statement sets the record right. 
The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  also mentioned customs and excise. I found his speech quite extraordinary too. He is a man for whom I think all honourable members in this House have respect. He was a distinguished civil servant, an investigator, for 34 years. One would have thought that before he made very strong accusations against my Department and myself in the House he would have checked his facts because the honourable gentleman's academic training and his training in a distinguished branch of the civil service would have led him to check facts. 1 will refute his facts on the basis of information given to me by my Department. 1 hope the honourable gentleman will be good enough to take my refutation back to his sources and if I am wrong and my refutation is wrong I would be pleased if he would let me know. It is a bit disconcerting as a Minister to hear what seem to be completely wrong statements for the first time in an estimates debate. 
These false accusations were used as an opportunity not only to accuse the Minister but also the Government and then political capital was made out of them. I do not know that that is fair play. 1 do not know that I have a reputation of being an unapproachable Minister. I had not received any of these representations before. The honourable member interjected and asked what did he say. I quote him on the subject of forklift trucks. He said: 
Firstly.  Hyster  Australia Pty Ltd which to my knowledge is the sole manufacturer of forklift trucks within Australia . . . 
I now inform the honourable gentleman that to our knowledge, at least, Clyde-APAC Ltd, Woodville North, South Australia; Clark Equipment Aust. Ltd, Hornsby, New South Wales; Conveyancer Pty Ltd, Kingsgrove, New South Wales; Hyster Australia Pty Ltd, Milperra, New South Wales and Caterpillar of Australia Ltd, Tullamarine, 
Victoria, all make forklift trucks. I should have thought that one simple telephone call would have established that. But that is not the important matter. He then said: 
To my shock I found that, due to the lack of tariff protection and the use of by-law entry, Japanese imports were cutting this firm to ribbons  . . Japanese imports were killing the market. This firm has had to dispense with its trained and skilled staff due to Japanese cut throat tactics which have been employed with the full approval of this Government.  1 was astonished to read that. I am informed that by-law entry is generally not accorded to forklift trucks for the very good reason that there are at least 5 manufacturers of them in Australia. However, occasionally an Australian importer requires a type of forklift truck for which a suitable equivalent is not reasonably available within Australia. I would imagine those occasions would be quite rare. Only on those occasions is by-law concession granted. If the honourable gentleman knows of massive imports being bought from Japan on which by-law concession has been granted, cutting Australian firms to ribbons, I would be fascinated to hear about it and I would like to hear about it. He mentioned a second fascinating item of cast iron sizzle plates which, I presume, are things to barbecue on. 
If they are not they should be, with a name like that. 
I quote from the honourable member's remarks again. He said: 
Japanese manufactured sizzle plates are allowed into this country under by-law entry . . . This wholly owned Australian company is being sacrificed because Japanese imports are crucifying it. 
He was referring to Channells Products Pty Ltd. I am informed that no Japanese imports of sizzle plates have come into Australia under by-law. For the honourable gentleman's benefit I inform him that cooking utensils, under which sizzle plates come - the more I speak the more I am dedicated to find out what sizzle plates are - did come in until 30th June 1972 under the concessional admission of certain imports from less developed countries. But Japan is certainly not one of those countries. So, again, I think that the honourable gentleman has been misled. Cooking utensils and kitchenware, including sizzle plates, were specifically excluded from this concession on 1st July 1972. At no time were sizzle plates of Japanese origin eligible for the concession. If they did come in I should like to hear about it. The honourable gentleman went on to talk about spray guns manufactured by the same company. He said: 
Surely ... the people who work in these industries should not be sacrificed just to appease the Japanese exporters. I pose this question to the Minister for Customs and Excise: Where does the Government stand on this important issue? 
Then he quoted Labor's policy. The allegation that the Government is sacrificing Australian manufacturers and the Australian work force to appease Japanese exporters is unjustified if it is untrue, as I hope I have illustrated it is with the other 2 examples, it is unfair and, indeed, offensive. The position is that my Department is aware of extensive local manufacturing of spray guns. By-law admission is accorded only where it is established that the known local manufacturers are unable to supply suitable equivalent goods. However, the Department is unaware of the activities of Channells Products Pty Ltd. Therefore it is desirable that Channell's Products should advise the Department of the products it is making so that its interests may be fully considered when future by-law requests are being dealt with. I pass that suggestion on to the honourable member for Banks in a spirit of being helpful. 
It may be that duty is being paid on these imports but that they are still being sold under the price at which Australian firms can produce them. If that is the case the honourable gentleman should advise his constituents in one of two ways. It may be that dumping is occurring. The Government is very firm about Australian manufacturers not being penalised by dumped products. The method of asking for an investigation as to whether dumping is occurring is delightfully simple. It simply means an approach to my Department, which will facilitate such an investigation and obtain a quick answer. The other reason is that the tariff protection levied by this Parliament might not be sufficient. That has nothing to do with my Department, but it has something to do with Government policy. Even so, the honourable gentleman's constituent has two courses of action open to him. He can apply to my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, for a tariff inquiry if the tariff protection is not sufficient, lt is just as much the policy of the Government as it is the policy of the honourable gentleman's Party to protect Australian industry and to afford the maximum employment in this country. I should have thought that that would have been demonstrated by the Government's actions in its years of office. However, Tariff Board inquiries take some time. So the Government has instituted a fire brigade mechanism, if I can use that expression. If substantial injury is being done to an industry by low priced imports - not dumped imports - the Minister for Trade and Industry can, if a prima facie case has been made out, refer it to the Special Advisory Authority,  Sir Frank  Meere, who is compelled to report to the Minister within 30 days of the submission being made. In this way fire brigade action can be taken to protect an industry. 
I hope the honourable member for Banks will take me up on the challenge that I have given to him in the spirit in which I have given it to him. If his constituents are experiencing trouble, I would suggest that he should go about bringing it to the attention of the Parliament in a businesslike and reasonable way rather than come into this chamber, abuse the Minister for Customs and Excise and his Department and say what a wonderful job the Australian Labor Party would do under the circumstances. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. This Bill provides for the validation up to and including 15th August 1972 of duties of excise collected on wine at the reduced rate of duty pursuant to Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 which I tabled on 25th May last. Because of the enactment ?f the Excise Tariff 1972, to operate on and from 1st July 1972, the Government has decided to seek validation df the reduced rate for the period 26th May 1972 to 15th August 1972, both dates inclusive, to cover both the pre-metric and post-metric forms of the Excise Tariff. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr J.  F. Cairns) adjourned. 
As my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, and I informed the House on Tuesday, negotiations have taken place and are taking place constantly between the parties principal to this dispute. !As I said to the House on Tuesday, the "best of all worlds both for the Australian work force and for the nation would be for the maximum amount of the order to !be placed with Australian companies, thus ensuring the maximum use of resources, both material and human; and for the remainder, if a suitable equivalent could not be produced in Australia, to be imported duty free so as to reduce basic unit costs to Industry and consequently to the consumer. I also made an appeal from the floor of the House for all parties concerned to enter into these negotiations with goodwill and not with heat, because the interests of the nation would be better served that way. Today in Sydney the permanent head of my Department and senior officers will be continuing these most delicate negotiations to a crucial stage with the parties principal. Therefore, it is with great regret that 1 find that not only did the Labor Party in the Senate put an urgency motion on the notice paper yesterday but also the Labor Party In this House - because its proceedings are being broadcast - has put one on the notice paper today. I suggest that the only total result of this kind of action could be to inflame an already delicate situation. Such action by a Party which allegedly champions members of the work force will result in damage to those people. 
in reply - It would be fascinating if just now and again the honourable member for Stuart  (Mr Foster)  injected one or two facts into one of his speeches in this House. I was personally delighted to hear the speech he has just made, firstly because it was broadcast, and secondly because Ian Wilson is a personal friend of mine whom I want reelected to this House. The speech of the honourable member for Stuart was completely unfair and irrelevant and not in accordance with the facts. 
In speaking to the motion I pay a tribute to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for the tremendous cooperation he has given me in running this House since I have been Leader of the House. 1 also thank virtually every member of this Parliament, including most members of the Opposition. Time and time again 1, members of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party have had discussions and arrangements have been made to suit the convenience of members, particularly members of the Opposition. If there is one member who cannot complain about not getting a fair go it is the honourable member for Stuart. Almost every week he speaks on debates on the motion to adjourn the House. He is continually on his feet. He never ceases interjecting and the House shows him more than ordinary tolerance, yet he makes speeches like the one we have just heard from him. 
The honourable member accused the Government and particularly me of not allowing free debate in the House. More hours of debate have been devoted to this Budget than any since 1967. More interestingly, there have been more speakers in the debate on this Budget than in any debate on the Budget in the last 20 years. There have probably been more speakers on this Budget than ever before in the history of this Parliament. I think the record may stand there. The honourable gentleman asked: 'Why do we not debate statements?' Two fundamental statements are on the notice paper today for debate. I undertook to bring them back to this House because of the interest of honourable members. I refer to the statements on urbanisation and foreign exchange control. We have lists and it is our intention to allow as many members as possible to speak. But what has happened? It is now 24 minutes past 2 and we have not yet got on to Government business and do not look like doing so because we have on the notice paper a facetious item as a matter of public importance which was fully debated in the Senate yesterday. 
1 have no intention of withdrawing the word. The matter was fully debated in the Senate yesterday. 
Motion (by  Mr Cope)  proposed: 
Thai the Minister be not further heard. 
No division is required. If honourable members opposite do not want the information, that is on the record too. That is how the Labor Party behaves. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  asked for information. I will gladly give it to him. However, during the first week of the sittings I informed the House of the number of Bills to be debated. I have discussed with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  how much time should be available for discussion of the Estimates. An informal agreement has been reached on that. I thank honourable members from both sides of the House for staying to that agreement. I am not informed of the date of the forthcoming election. As Leader of the House I am obliged to try to get the business of this House through with the least inconvenience to members  and giving members their full rights. That is my intention. I think that; on only one occasion since the start of. this session has the House sat beyond midnight, and that was for only a few minutes. There have been very few occasions^ one, two or three, if that many - where the adjournment debate has been gagged. Almost every night three or four members of the Opposition speak on the adjournment debate, and usually they are the same three or four speakers. I wonder how just are the criticisms of the honourable member for Sturt. 
As Leader of the House I have to work to a hypothetical date which was released in the last sessional period by my predecessor, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  for the convenience of the members. He said that this House in general terms should sit from 15th August to 26th October with 3 weeks on and one week off. That is the programme to which I am working. That is the time scale. So, after tonight we have 3 weeks of sitting, according to the present plan. We have  25i  hours left for debate on the Estimates, according to the informal agreement made with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. How many Bills are left? In general terms there are about 25 Budget and non-Budget Bills remaining. If the honourable member wishes I can give him a detailed list of them. Twenty-five sounds a lot but some of them, as the House knows, are formal 
Bills. Some can be dealt with in cogaate debate. It is my hope that if the House sits until 26th October we shall be able to give honourable members reasonable opportunity to speak, without having late sittings. To achieve this objective we will need the co-operation of members of this House, Today the proposed programme of business goes to 3 pages, containing some very important items to be discussed, such as the two 1 mentioned before. Yet it is now 2.30 p.m. and we have not commenced Government Business and there is a matter of urgent public importance which will delay the House another hour. This means that these vitally important items will not be debated by honourable members and will not be permitted to be debated by honourable members. I ask the House to judge who is to blame for that - the Leader of the House, the Government, members of the Government parties, or members of the Opposition in the light of their performance this morning? I leave it to the House to judge. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  misquoted me. I did not say that this debate was ludicrous. I said that it was a facetious debate or that it was brought on facetiously. I said, in answer to a question this morning, that I regretted that the Australian Labor Party found it necessary to bring on this matter today. It is perfectly proper, in fact incumbent upon it as a Party representing certain sections of the work force, to bring before this Parliament matters which are of concern to those sections of the work force. It has to obey dictates, persuasion and pressure from the trade union movement at certain times. This is prefectly proper and I do not quarrel with it. But what use has this debate brought on at this time been to this dispute? There is a dispute occurring. The honourable member for Cunningham Ls well versed in industrial relations. He has spent a life time at it. He would know that one of the cardinal rules when parties are in dispute is that you cool it; you do not inflame delicate situations. 
What have we had today from the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)*  and from the honourable member for Cunningham? No doubt my friend the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  will add further flame to the fire which separates the parties by highlighting accusations that have already been made in public. There seems to have been criticism of statements made by  Sir William  Pettingell against the Australian steel industry and against the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I regret, firstly, that the statements were made by that gentleman and, secondly, the prominence which they were given. Those sorts of statements made in a moment of heat - this is the point I was making this morning - do not engender an atmosphere in which a dispute can be settled. Today in Sydney the permanent head of my Department with most senior officers of my Department are in conference with the parties to this dispute in an endeavour to find a solution which would be in the best interest of the work force, the nation and the consumers. That is the reason I suggested that this was a facetious motion brought on by the Labor Party today under pressure from trade unions and to satisfy their demands. 
The name of this game is politics. The aim is to make political points particularly a couple of months before an election.  1  concede that, but one would have thought that a party which pretends to be the alternative government, which is asking the people to make it the government, would not act irresponsibly and inflame a situation which is of enormous national significance by driving the parties further apart for the sake of gaining a few political points; political points against whom? Having listened to this debate so far I am not aware that any points have been scored but something fascinating has come out of this debate. That is a clear indication by the Labor Party that if it formed a government it would engage in direct intervention in commercial decisions. I suggest this must raise the most serious questions in the minds of those in Australian business. It must force business and industry to ask themselves how much confidence they can have in freedom of choice under a Labor government to go about their business without government interference. One statement by the honourable member for Cunningham was fascinating and enough to send a chill of fear down the spine of every businessman, big or small. He said: This is not a question of professional judgment; this is a matter of national emergency.' 
I am not disputing for a moment that it is a matter of national importance but that is the thin edge of the wedge of Labor's policy and philosophy of intervention in commercial dealings, and on that basis a Labor Government could and would interfere in any commercial dealing. I thought some of the comments by the honourable member for Lalor were quite interesting. He said that if  Sir William  Pettingell had said what he is alleged to have said about the Australian steel industry he should be brought to account. 
He said that if  Sir William 
Pettingell was wrong he should be brought to account. The honourable gentleman did not elucidate what that delightful phrase meant. Brought to account by whom, to whom? 
It is obvious and something for which I am thankful that the level of my common sense does not run parallel with that of the honourable gentleman. Let us look at a hypothetical situation. Does the Labor Party say that if an Australian company wants to build something that is for the ultimate benefit of the nation and the Australian consumer; if it can buy a better product overseas and pay the duty on it; if it can buy overseas a product that is safer than the Australian product; if it can buy the product overseas more cheaply even after paying the duty levied by this Parliament; and if it can get it in half the time or a quarter of the time, the company cannot have freedom of choice and buy the product overseas? That is a monstrous suggestion. If the Labor Party, as the pretending government is to go to Australian industry and say: 'All of your transactions will be subject to our judgment of whether or not it is in the national interest for you to do this or that', the whole freedom of choice of private enterprise will be taken away. The dead hand of socialism immediately comes on to industry and commerce and they wither away and the size of the cake gets progressively smaller. I think that is the most fascinating thing that has come out of the debate today. 
Running through the speech of the honourable member for Lalor like the thread of Ariadne was this question of the steel industry. I think he took secret delight in  Sir William  Pettingell's criticism of the Australian steel industry. He deplored it but with so much faint condemnation as to indicate that he loved the steel industry to be criticised. I would have thought that this delight in the breast of the honourable member for Lalor indicated this sort of thinking: 'Once I am in government and Minister for Trade this will give me the stick I have been wanting for years. As soon as we get into power the first cab off the rank for nationalisation is the steel industry because an industrialist himself says that it is inefficient'. The honourable gentleman could almost not hide his glee. 
Let me repeat as Minister for Customs and Excise - this is the only area in which I exercise responsibility in relation to the matter that is being discussed today - that if a suitable equivalent of a type of steel required by AGL is not reasonably available in Australia, by-law will be granted. If in the judgment given to us a suitable equivalent is reasonably available, by-law certainly will not be granted and AGL will pay the 35 per cent duty on the imported steel. I have an enormous respect for the knowledge of the steel industry of the honourable member for Cunningham. He knows a lot more about it than I do or am ever likely to do, but with great respect to him, I as Minister for Customs and Excise would not accept his judgment that the question of safety is tripe or that our steel is better than that which is to be imported. I give the House an assurance that before we make a judgment we will go to the highest and best professional consultants that the universities and other institutions in Australia can recommend to us to see if there is evidence to back up the claims of  Sir William  Pettingell of AGL before making a judgment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It will be recalled that when the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  released the report of the Tariff Board on metal working machine tools and accessories on 11th August last, he announced that the Government had accepted the Board's recommendations including the introduction of a bounty arrangement for certain specified machine tools. The terms of reference to the Tariff Board required it to have regard to the Government's objective that at least the nucleus of a machine tools industry should be maintained in Australia, without encouraging the industry to expand beyond the range within which it was then operating. To meet this objective the Board considered that the assistance to be provided should maintain the local manufacture of those kinds of machines, the production of which would retain within the industry a cadre of specialist design and manufacturing skills and specialist plant. 
The Board recommended that in addition to tariff assistance certain power-fed machine tools should receive assistance by way of bounty and that certain special purpose machines subject to minimum rates of duty should receive bounty assistance. The majority of the remaining machines under reference which were subject to protective duties should continue to receive tariff assistance. The changes in the rates of duty on imported machine tools made necessary by this decision were implemented recently through Customs Tariff Proposal No. 14. The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to implement the Government's decision in respect of bounty assistance. 
The Bill provides for the payment of bounty on the various classes of machine tools listed in the Schedule to the Bill. The level of bounty assistance specified in the 
Bill - 33½ per cent of factory cost - accords with that foreshadowed in the Minister's statement of 11th August. In this regard it will be recalled that the Minister indicated that although different in form this rate of assistance is equivalent to that proposed by the Tariff Board. The change in the form of the subsidy has been made only because of the Government's concern that the form of subsidy originally proposed by the Board - a percentage of selling price - could present problems in administration. As recommended by the Tariff Board, provision has been made for the level of bounty assistance to be adjusted in accordance with the level of Australian content of the machine tool concerned. 
All manufacturers who were engaged in the production of bountiable goods on 14th April 1972 - the date the Board's report was signed - will be eligible to participate in the bounty arrangements. Provision exists for other manufacturers to be brought within the scope of the arrangements where I, in my capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise, and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  are satisfied that this would promote the orderly development of the industry without inducing undue fragmentation of local production. It is intended that this assistance should continue until 30th June 1977 during which time the industry will again be reviewed by the Tariff Board. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The amendments contained in the Bill now before the House provide for only one change for duty rates in the excise tariff. These particular amendments relate to the 50 per cent reduction in the rate of duty on wine produced from fresh grapes. Honourable members will recall that tariff proposals introduced on 25th May 1972 gave effect to the Government's decision to reduce excise duty on wine following consideration of Professor Grant's report earlier this year on the wine industry. The Bill now under consideration will enact the proposals in respect of wine as from 16th August 1972. Shortly I will introduce the Bill needed to validate the reduction for the period 26th May to 15th August 1972. 
This Bill also contains amendments which will permit the delivery free of excise duty of tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff for use in an approved medical or other scientific research programme. The opportunity has also been taken to express the wording in respect of certain potable spirits in similar terms to that used in the customs tariff for imported spirits. A summary of the changes is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill be  now  read  a second  time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 4) which I have just introduced. Honourable members will note that the earliest commencement date of that Bill is 1st July 1972, the date of metrication. This Bill validates the collection of duties of grape wine and ships, boats, etc., up to 30th June 1972, that is, before metrication. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I seek leave to move a motion which will enable Government Business notices Nos. 5, 6 and7 to be called on and moved together and Nos. 8 and 9 also to be called on and moved together. 
As I informed the House 10 days or so ago, delicate negotiations were talcing place and they are still taking place on this issue. I emphasise that my own role and that of my Department is limited to the importation of any pipeline or steel under by-law. Duty can be waived if a suitable equivalent is not reasonably available in Australia. Although discussions are continuing I can now say that there is an indication that some of the pipe for the main line may be produced in Australia. It is hoped that a significant part of the subsidiary lines will be produced in Australia. One of the issues which the honourable gentleman referred to is the allegation, if I may call it that, that Australian steel is not suitably equivalent to imported steel. The honourable gentleman sets himself up as an expert on Australian steel. I would readily concede he knows far more about it than I do but he would not be the expert to whom we would necessarily turn for advice. On a matter like this in which a great deal of money is involved and where the Government wishes to make a decision we of course seek expert advice. On this point the Government has recently appointed Professor Muir, the Professor of Physical Metallurgy and the head of the School of Metallurgy, University of New South Wales, to advise the Government on this matter. Professor Muir is a doctor of science and one of the leaders in the field of metallurgy, in this country. As soon as his report on this specific highly technical matter has been received it will be considered by the Government. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now' read a second time. 
This Bill to amend the Customs Tariff  1966-1972  comprises  7  schedules. The First Schedule to the Bill constitutes a replacement of the First and Fifth Schedules of the principal Act -plus amendments to the Third and Fourth schedules of that Act. These- changes implement the Government's decision to introduce metric terms into the customs tariff. Other changes arise from drafting amendments to the Brussels Nomenclature instigated by the Customs Co-operation Council in Belgium. These changes are identified in the comprehensive document available to honourable members by the prefixes 'M' and 'BNC' respectively. Any variations in respect to previous levels of duty are minimal. 
Included in the First Schedule and in other schedules, as I will indicate, are changes arising from consideration of the following Tariff Board reports: Industrial chemicals and synthetic resins, etc.; industrial gamma ray equipment; shipbuilding; shot, angular grit and -wire pellets of iron or steel (Third Schedule); A.C. .generators exceeding  120  kVA; rotary converters exceeding  50  kW (Third Schedule); hand tools; interchangeable tools for hand tools or machine tools, etc. (Third Schedule); metal working machine tools and accessories (Fifth Schedule); insulators; porcelain or glass insulators (Dumping and Subsidies Act) (Seventh Schedule); fittings and mountings; hat racks, etc., of base metal (Seventh Schedule); ceramic tableware, etc. (Seventh Schedule); and reports by the Special Advisory Authority on: Isoocty alcohol; continuous filament raw yarns of polyamide or polyester and resins of the propylene type. 
The First Schedule also includes the reduction in the duties on gripe wine which was introduced last May. The Second Schedule includes changes agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand governments to extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. Other tariff concessions relate to hand-made traditional products of cottage industries of developing countries. The Fourth Schedule makes provisions for the duty free entry of tobacco, cigarettes, cigars and snuff when for use in approved medical or other scientific research programmes. It is complementary to an amendment to the Excise Tariff in respect to locally produced tobacco products. The Sixth Schedule to this Bill incorporates changes arising out of the Government's decision to implement the Tariff Board's reports on knitted shirts and outergarments and woven shirts. Honourable members will recall . that my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  gave details of the Government's decision on 31st August last. 
At the time the various Tariff Proposals were introduced the nature of the changes was 'explained at some length. Jo fact' 'tate honourable members' research for the ensuing debate 1 ask leave to incorporate in Hansard details of earlier relevant speeches and their whereabouts in Hansard. 
 The comments have reached a ridiculous level but I will not escalate it. I know the reasons why the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  and surprisingly the Opposition Whip, have raised this point. One of the joys of being Leader of the House is the extreme co-operation I have had from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  I could not have asked for more. At a quarter to six tonight a message was delivered to his office that this arrangement had been made.  1  suggest that it is palpably unfair for the Whip of the Australian Labor Party to criticise the Leader of the House or honourable members on this side of the House for a lack of communication between this side of the House and the other side of the House. I would have thought that the proper line of communication would have been between the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and myself as Leader of the House. It is not my function to go into the Opposition Whip's office to inform him of arrangements relating to the business of the House. I think that his words tonight and those of the honourable member for Dawson might be better directed to their  Deputy  Leader. As far as I am concerned, all lines of communication have been honoured. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a Commonwealth Centre (phase 1) at Melbourne, Victoria. 
The proposal involves the construction of a 7 storey building plus 2 floors of a future tower block, providing a total of 160,000 square feet of net office space. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $6.3m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the building and recommended that this phase proceed. The Committee further recommended that the Government examine the wisdom of proceeding with the 
Commonwealth Centre project beyond phase 1 and that studies should be made to determine whether it might be more appropriate to locate Victorian branch offices of Commonwealth departments in suburban Melbourne or in country areas. The Government is currently planning to undertake such studies. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of communications tower at Black Mountain, A.C.T. 
The proposed tower will rise 641 feet from ground level and will consist of a selfsupporting reinforced concrete circular shaft to carry 3 levels of technical equipment for radio/ telephone purposes and 2 levels for public use. The concrete shaft will terminate at 434 feet from which point the tower will be of open lattice steel construction to support antennae for television and radio services. The tower will provide for the expected growth of radio/ telephone trunk traffic and television relay facilities involving the national capital and meet the demands of the Canberra region for the next SO years. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $6m. 
In investigating the proposal, the Committee was requested to express views on whether the function of the tower should be confined to communications only or whether it might incorporate revenue producing facilities in the form of a public restaurant and viewing platform. The Committee concluded that there is a need for the work and that it would be appropriate to include the revenue producing facilities and recommended that the work proceed to construction. The Government has accepted the recommendations of the Committee. Having regard to the prominence of Black Mountain and the importance of preserving its natural state as far as is possible, the Government has given very careful consideration to the environmental question and has fully considered all of the representations which have been made on this matter. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a primary and pre-school at Tennant Creek, N.T. 
The proposed work is for the construction of additional facilities to meet the primary, infant and pre-school needs of Tennant Creek. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.1 5m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the new facilities and recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Construction of a Power Station at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a power station at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
The proposed work involves the construction of a new power station with 4.2 mw diesel powered alternators, associated 22 kV reticulation, and other facilities. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $1.8m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the establishment of a new power station and recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The Minister for Works has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no biennial conferences of water and sewerage authorities as such, but 2 separate conferences are held bienially of senior officers of Australian water supply and sewerage authorities, one for engineers and the other for administrative officers. These conferences are for the sharing of knowledge and experience at a technical or working level and they have no mandate or authority to determine matters of policy or set standards in any form. These are issues for individual Authorities in conjunction with, when appropriate, their respective Governments. 
Officers from the following authorities attended the last engineers conference, held in 1971. 
Commonwealth 
Department of Works. 
New South Wales 
Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, Sydney. 
Department of Public Works. 
Hunter District Water Board, Newcastle. 
Victoria 
Melbourne and Metroplitan Board of Works, Melbourne. 
State Rivers and Water Supply Commission. 
South Australia 
Engineering and Water Supply Department. 
Queensland 
Brisbane City Council, Brisbane. 
Department of Local Government. 
Western Australia 
Metropolitan Water Supply Sewerage and Drainage Board, Perth. 
Public Works Department. 
Tasmania 
Metropolitan Water Board. Hobart. 
Corporation of the City of Hobart. 
Rivers and Water Supply Commission. 
Officers from the following authorities attended the last administrative officers conference, held in 1970: 
New South Wales 
Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, Sydney 
Hunter District Water Board, Newcastle. 
Victoria 
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. 
State Rivers and Water Supply Commission. 
South Australia Engineering and Water Supply Department, Adelaide. 
Western Australia 
Metropolitan Water Supply Sewerage and 
Drainage Board, Perth. Public Works Department. 
Tasmania 
Metropolitan Water Board, Hobart. Corporation of the City of Hobart. 
No Commonwealth Ministers have attended recent conferences but Engineers of the Commonwealth Department of Works have attended recent Conferences of Engineers as follows: 1967  -  H. M. Wilson, Assistant DirectorGeneral (Hydraulics); D. A. Stockdill, Principal Engineer for  Major Development  (A.C.T.) 1969  -  H. L. Jones, Assistant Director-General (Hydraulics); D. A. Stockdill, Principal Engineer for  Major Development  (A.C.T.) 1971  -  H. L. Jones, Assistant Director-General (Hydraulics); D. A. Stockdill, Assistant Director  (Major Development)  (A.C.T.) 
There has been no Commonwealth representation at the last 3 Conferences of Administrative Officers although 1 understand that officers from the Department of the Interior will attend the next Conference later this month (October, 1972). 
Requests for legislative or administrative action are not a normal outcome of these conferences. However, the 1969 Conference of Engineers decided to put to the Authorities represented, as well as to the State and Commonwealth Health Authorities, a proposal that a set of criteria and objectives for water qualify for Capital Cities be recognised for Australia wide conditions. Drafts have been prepared but as yet have not been fully endorsed by all major water and health authorities concerned. 
Another suggestion with implications for the Commonwealth and State Governments came from the 1968 Conference of Administrative Officers as follows: Because of difficulties being met in the collection of rates and charges for water supply, and sewerage from lessees of Crown lands, it was suggested that the lessor Authorities include provision for these in the rentals applied. This matter was left for individual Authorities to take action as considered appropriate. 
The criteria and objectives for water quality regarded as acceptable by the 1969 Conference of Engineers, were not intended as 'standards' or as requirements essential to be met in precise terms, but rather as a set of aims for the guidance of Authorities. 
I am advised that water supplied in the Capital Cities of Canberra and Darwin substantially meets the proposed criteria and objectives although there have been occasions when certain criteria have not been achieved. I am not in possession of the information sought in respect of the water supply systems in the State Capital Cities. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of this House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total amount of SI 54.93 was expended on the purchase of soft drinks and alcoholic beverages for delegates to the Regional Conference on Drug Trafficking. It is not possible lo isolate expenditure on alcoholic drinks, as both soft drink and alcoholic beverages were purchased together. 
 I give the House an assurance that there will be a debate on this issue. 
At a time when the papers are available. I would have thought that this makes sense. I can understand the wish of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and other honourable members to speak on this issue. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  was perfectly correct when he said that this matter has been debated in the Senate. If this House wants a debate on it it is entitled to have that debate. In response to a question asked today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  gave an undertaking that certain documents would be available in this House and also that certain other classified documents would be available for personal inspection by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is today attending a most important conference with Japanese VIPs concerning very important matters. Surely his presence in such a debate is essential. I imagine that the Opposition would want that. I would hope that the Opposition would co-operate with us, with my absolute assurance that this matter will be debated at the earliest opportunity. The House has only 2 weeks or a little more to go. I again say to the House that this matter will not be brought on late at night or in a way which will unduly inhibit debate. In view of that assurance, I hope that the Opposition will allow us to get back to debating the matters on the notice paper. I hope that the honourable member for Blaxland also will realise that I appreciate his position, but I give him that undertaking. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Excise Tariff Bill (No. 3) 1972, and the Excise Tariff Validation Bill 1972 as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions can be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Perhaps I reacted a little too strongly to my friend the honour able member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I would have thought that this was a fairly simple Bill. The questions which the honourable member asks are simple questions. Because of the depth of experience and knowledge that both he and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  have, I believe they know the answers to the questions they posed. Just before the honourable member for Dawson spoke, I was engaged in discussions with members of his own Party as to how to facilitate the rising of this House. To take a relatively insignificant Bill into Committee just to ask those questions to which the honourable member for Dawson already knows the answers, I thought, was a facetious gesture. However, I will treat his questions seriously. May I thank my colleagues and friend the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  for filling the breach temporarily to reply to the second reading debate. As the honourable gentlemen opposite know, I am also Leader of the House and, as will be evident later, certain events needed my attention and I could not be at the table to deal with this Bill, for which I apologise to the House. 
The answer to specific questions asked by the honourable member for Dawson is that the undumped price is determined by experienced officers of my Department after making inquiries in the country of export - for example, Japan - as to what is the current domestic value, which is known as CDV, of the particular product or what is the normal price paid by a person in the normal course of retail trading. I would concede that these are explicit English words which are capable of interpretations according to subjective judgments. The cost of production means basically the factory cost plus selling expenses and an acceptable margin of profit. Finally, the price of every nitrogenous fertiliser sold in Australia at the present time is lower than the equivalent notional undumped price of imports. This surely brings out the point that the Australian farmers receive the full benefit of the subsidy. I will study the questions asked by the honourable member for Dawson because, although I think I have given an answer to his general points, he went more deeply into the matter by referring to advertising expenses and so on. If there is anything I can usefully add to the answer I have given to him in Committee I will be delighted to do so. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 In reply - I will be pleased to bring the comments and criticisms of the Tariff Board report made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to the attention of my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The honourable member for Lalor has made these criticisms before. He has pointed out what to his mind is a lack of information in the Tariff Board reports and I believe he has done so with logic and reasoning. The only point of philosophy in which I want to engage my colleague is where he talked about planning and here he gets to the root of the difference between our 2 parties. 
The honourable gentleman acknowledges that. He was gracious enough to begin his speech by saying that through this Bill the Government was engaged in planning. I concede that. He then went on to say that this planning did not go far enough, and that is the crux of his argument. He then said that there is no mention in the report of what is a nucleus of an industry. That is true. This is a difficult question to approach. The socialist, because he is dedicated to the dogma of planning to the finite degree, would be prepared to put down in the report and accept as dogma what a nucleus would be, whether it would be 11 or 12 firms with a capacity of such and such and employing a certain number of people. This is a respectable view in theory but we on this side of the House reject it. 
The shortcomings of this theory can be illustrated with several examples of socialist planning in various parts of the world, not the least of which is one I have cited many times in this House of a committee appointed by a socialist government in the United Kingdom some years ago to inquire into the fuel industries. The honourable member for Lalor will recall this. The socialist government, theoretically perfect, decided that the way to organise the economy was to get a committee of experts which would determine how much oil would be required 10 years hence, how much electricity would be required 10 years hence and how much coal, coke and other fuels would be required 10 years hence. Then the socialist government thought: 'If we can get this expert target of what will be required we will know where we are. We can then plan for so many electricity generating stations to be constructed and decide how many oil refineries are to be built. Then we will have orderly planning and the orderly allocation of resources and so on'. This is beautiful in theory but I would have thought that history has already recorded how in almost every one of the items in that report that committee, which consisted of the greatest experts Britain could muster at that stage, was palpably wrong, even to the extent of 212 per cent in respect of oil, as I remember. Therefore, while I sympathise with the honourable gentleman's desire to have spelt out what is a nucleus and what is detailed planning, we on this side of the House believe that in real life terms this is palpably impossible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 Leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="081131197210173_106_0.jpg"></graphic>

The matter of rail freights is an equally sorry story but in deference to the concern of the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  I will not go into that matter this evening. However, let me say that while members of the Opposition appreciate the fact that Queensland has been granted this finance, we believe it is about time that the Queensland Government started to show some concern for the fact that it has been so lax over the years in the negotiation of contracts, particularly with overseas interests. It is quite obvious from the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission and from figures that I have given this evening to illustrate the situation that no real attempt has been made by the Queensland Government to obtain royalties  at  anywhere near the level that that State could be receiving from its mineral wealth. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move: 
That orders of the day Nos. 3 and 4, Government Business, be postponed until a later hour this day. 
For the benefit of honourable members this is so that the House can begin debating the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill, which we have delayed to suit the convenience of my friend the hon ourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who is now prepared to debate this matter. It is intended to return to the consideration of the Estimates in Committee after the disposal of this Bill. Hopefully, we will then be able to pass the Appropriation Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 in reply - It would be quite extraordinary if, 4 sitting days before the House rose to fight a general election, no politics were to intrude into a debate. On this particular debate on this Bill this situation has been manifested. I have been disappointed, frankly, at the extent of the party politics - allowing that party politics must necessarily be introduced - that has been brought into this Bill, essentially by members of the Opposition. They have moved an amendment which, if carried, to use the words of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren):  would make the National Urban and Regional Development Authority wither on the vine.' Let us not be in 2 minds about the Labor Party's intention for the Authority which will be the child of this Bill. It wants to kill it. It wants to destroy it. Its own spokesman, the honourable member for Reid, said that unequivocally and clearly tonight. 
Points made by almost all Opposition members who spoke in the debate, with the strange exception of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  had value. I say with the strange exception because normally his speeches have value. Tonight his speech was pure rubbish from the beginning to the end. One of the aspects of speeches of members opposite was that the Labor Party has and has had a monopoly of con cern for regional development. This is not true, as many members on this side of the House have been championing regional development, and sub-metropolitan development for years. In fact, immediately after the Prime Minister gained office - this was over a year ago - he set up a number of Liberal Party committees, one of which was specifically to study ways and means of bringing about decentralisation. 
I concede immediately that concern has been expressed over a number of years by members of the Opposition on this question, particularly the honourable member for Reid. I think that on this point we can all say that we are delighted at this action by the Government. I would go further personally and say that the creation of this Authority is one of the most exciting developments in legislative history for many years. I need not canvass what was put so excellently by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and other honourable members.  His  was a good speech until he spoilt it by attacking the Country Party needlessly and for the sheer purpose of discrediting it. No-one need canvass the hideous concept of a Melbourne of 5 million people by the year 2000 and the equally hideous concept of a Sydney blocked by traffic snarls and polluted by the year 2000, with God knows how many people. We concede that something must be done. The crux of th.s debate is: How shall it be done? Shall it be done the way the Labor Party wants it to be done - the socialist way - the centralist way? In some ways I am delighted that the Opposition has moved its amendment. Members of the Opposition realise that this particular Bill will be extraordinarily popular with the electorate. That is why an amendment has been moved by the Opposition. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  disclosed his concern when he said, with his voice quavering with fear: 'All you Liberals and Country Party members are going to dangle this before the voters before the election.' Obviously he was showing concern that this measure will excite the electorate in the forthcoming campaign. It is simply a matter of how the step is to be taken. Should it be done by a government department? 
by leave - We have had extraordinary co-operation from all honourable members with a view to the Parliament concluding its business and rising on Thursday next, which I understand all honourable members wish to do. If the estimates for the Department of Works could be agreed to tonight, considerable time would probably be saved next week. The Appropriation Bill could pass all stages tonight. I had an informal discussion with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and he was agreeable to continuing in Committee on this Bill. I ask the Committee to consider the fact that, if the Bill is passed tonight much time will be saved next week, particularly in respect of sitting late at night. 
A debate on the adjournment motion will be held this evening. I think that the appropriation for the Department of Works could be agreed to and the Appropriation Bill could be passed through its remaining stages within a reasonably short time this evening. We would then proceed to the adjournment debate and face next week a reasonably civilised programme of work. In the circumstances I wonder whether the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  would consider withdrawing, by leave of the Committee, his motion. 
I move: 
That Government Business, Notice No. 1, be postponed to a later hour this day. 
Some other closely allied Bills are to be dealt with and it was thought that it would suit the convenience of honourable members to delay dealing with Notice No. 1 until a later hour. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2), the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 2) and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you might permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed on this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is it the wish of the House that this procedure be adopted? There being no objection, 1 will permit that course to be followed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill to amend the Customs Tariff 1966-1972 consists of 2 schedules. The. First Schedule of the Bill contains tariff changes in respect of imports of small pitch transmission chain. The changes were introduced by my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on 28th September last and were explained at some length at the time. The Second Schedule of the Bill provides for a simpler expression of the rates of duty applying to plywood. The rates of duty on plywood prior to 1st July 1972 varied according to increases in thickness of one-sixteenth of an inch. On and after 1st July 1972, that is, after metrication, the rates varied according to increases in thickness of 1.6 millimetres, which is the conversion of one-sixteenth of an inch to metric terms. The change now proposed varies the rates of duty according to increases in thickness of one millimetre. Honourable members will appreciate this is a much simpler expression and more in accord with the spirit of metrication. The changes in existing rates of duty are minimal and operate from 1st November 1972. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
 If the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  would listen to the point I am making, I shall have recorded in Hansard his wish to speak to this Bill. An offer was made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to the Government that if we brought this Bill on today he would grant leave to proceed to the second reading debate forthwith on the basis that there would be one  speaker  a side. We accepted the offer on that basis. Several members on my side of the House wished to speak to the Bill but they have been asked to withdraw their names from the list. They have agreed to do so. In the circumstances I hope that the honourable member for Prospect would concede that it would be basically unfair to grant him the privilege to speak now. I can understand his wish to speak to the Bill. I am wondering whether in the interests of the smooth running of the House he would content himself with allowing me to record now in Hansard his wish to speak to the Bill and whether in view of the circumstances he would forgo his right to speak and allow the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  a few moments to reply to the questions properly put by the honourable member for Oxley. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, Customs Tariff Bill (No. 4) 1972, the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 5) and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1972 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 12b of the Tariff Board Act 1921-1972 I present a Tariff Board report on parts for ball point pens - by-law. 
I present the following report by the Tariff Board: 
Pyre thrum. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I move: 
That Orders of the Day Nos 2 and 3, Government Business, be postponed until a later hour of the day. 
I would like to mention that I have moved this motion to suit the convenience of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  which we are pleased to do. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the report by the Tariff Board on the following subject: 
Magnet winding wire. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in connection with this report. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-1969, I present the thirteenth annual statement of the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year to 30th June 1972. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Repatriation (Torres Strait Islanders) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you per mit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-Last night I did notice the report to which the honourable gentleman has referred. I cannot comment at length on it because I do not have the details at my fingertips. What the honourable gentleman suggests is true - a person who was convicted for importing a quantity of heroin was sentenced to a 5-year gaol term but this was reduced to 3 years. As I understand it, if the quantity involved were mixed with other material and injected it would be approximately 2,000 doses of heroin. I have not read the reasons for the judgment but, as I have said previously, every parliament in Australia, whether it is Liberal or Labor controlled, is unanimous that the maximum sentence for a drug pusher should be 10 years' gaol. I am not speaking now of user-pushers who are to be pitied in some circumstances but of the person who imports this sort of killer drug for the purpose of selling it. Why any court in Australia should impose a sentence less than that which all the parliaments prescribe passes my comprehension. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of RAAF Base at Amberley, Queensland. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of RAAF Base at Townsville, Queensland. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Commitee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Commonwealth Offices at Port Moresby. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary 
Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a new runway and associated works at Port Moresby Airport. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Airport development works at Nadzab - Lae, Papua New Guinea. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: New out-patients clinic at Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital, Queensland. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of patients and staff accommodation at Kingsholme Rehabilitation Centre, Taringa, Queensland. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Proposed Rehabilitation Centre - Camperdown, New South Wales. 
That, in accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Commonwealth office block at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of a jungle training centre at Canungra, Queensland. 
That, In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a telephone exchange at Sydney East. 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a telephone exchange at Woolloongabba, Queensland. 
The proposal for the  development  of a Royal Australian Air Force base at Amberley, Queensland involves the construction of support facilities for a helicopter squadron, new maintenance hangars and technical support facilities. The estimated cost of the proposed work is Si 4.2m. The Committee concluded that there is a need for the works and recommends that it proceed to construction. 
The proposal for the development of RAAF base at Townsville, Queensland involves the construction of new buildings and services and extension of a number of existing facilities to provide for the permanent location at the base of an RAAF utility helicopter squadron, the replacement of unsatisfactory technical and base support facilities, and expansion generally. The estimated cost of the proposed  work  is $8m. The Committee concluded there is a need for the works and recommends thai it proceed to construction. 
The next proposal relates to the construction of Commonwealth Offices at Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea. The proposed work is for the erection of a 12 storey office building of reinforced concrete construction, and incorporating air conditioning and external in situ concrete  sunhoods.  The estimated cost of the proposed work is SI. 65m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the work in this reference and that the re-use of the basic design of ANG House was appropriate. The Committee also concluded that the site was suitable subject to the terms of the lease of the site to the Commonwealth being finalised. This is being negotiated now with the Lands Board in Port Moresby. The Committee recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance subject to satisfactory finalisation of the lease. 
I refer next to the construction of a new runway and associated works at Port Moresby Airport in Papua New Guinea. The proposal involves the construction of a new runway and associated taxiways, extensions and strengthening of existing aprons and taxiways, and provision of associated engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7.5rn. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the work at Port Moresby and  recommended its construction subject to satisfactory arrangements being made for the purchase or acquisition of the land required for the development. The Papua New Guinea authorities have already initiated action with a view to meeting this condition. The Committee also recommended that the land usage patterns in the vicinity of the airport should be controlled so that environmental problems associated with the airport development and use do not arise. Likewise action has been taken to ensure compatibility of aircraft operations and nearby land use. This is reflected in the latest town plan. 
The proposed airport development works at Nadzab, Lae, Papua New Guinea involves the strengthening and reshaping of the existing runway, construction of taxiways, and construction of new terminal complex, associated buildings and a maintenance complex. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3.85m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the Lae Airport to be relocated and that Nadzab is a suitable site for the establishment of the proposed airport, subject to satisfactory arrangements being made for the purchase or acquisition of the customary land required. The Papua New Guinea authorities have already initiated action with a view to meeting this condition. In recommending that construction proceed, the Committee also recommended that land usage patterns in the vicinity of the airport be controlled so that environmental problems associated with the airport development and use do not arise. Likewise action has been initiated to ensure compatibility of aircraft operations and nearby land use. 
The new out-patients clinic at Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital, Queensland involves extensions to the existing multi-storey administration building to expand the radiology and pathology departments and provision of a new single storey wing for the out-patients clinic. The estimated cost of the proposed work is SI. 7m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the proposed work and recommended that the works proceed to construction in this instance. 1 refer now to the construction of patients and staff accommodation at Kingsholme Rehabilitation Centre at Taringa in Queensland. The proposal involves the construction of a 5 storey patient residential building and a 2 storey building built over the lower floor structure of an existing quarters to accommodate live-in staff. The estimated cost of the proposed work is Sl.75m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for these buildings and recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance. 
The proposal for a Rehabilitation Centre at Camperdown, New South Wales involves construction of a 5 storeyed building with facilities for physiotherapy, occupational therapy, medical attention, vocational and recreational activities, administration and vehicle parking. The estimated cost of the proposed work is 53,365,000. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the work and the site is suitable. The Committee recommended that the proposal proceed to construction at the estimated cost of $3,365,000. The Committee indicated that works should not be referred for parliamentary examination prior to cost limits being agreed and that stringent cost procedures should be applied to all Commonwealth projects. The Government has noted these observations of the Committee. 
The next proposal is for the construction of Commonwealth office block at Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. The proposal involves construction of a reinforced concrete structure with load bearing concrete masonry block external walls. Air conditioning is provided and design of the building was influenced by the need to control sun penetration. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 1.25m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the work, that the site selected was suitable, and recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance. 
I turn now to the development of a jungle training centre at Canungra, Queensland. The proposal involves the construction of new buildings to replace temporary buildings and older, obsolete buildings now uneconomic to maintain, the provision of new facilities; and extensions and alterations to some existing facilities. The estimated cost of the proposed work as submitted to the Committee was $6.3m. In reporting favourably on the need and acceptability in general of the proposal, the Committee recommended that motel-style accommodation be provided for officers and senior non-commissioned officers at an additional estimated cost of $60,000. It is proposed to accept this recommendation. 
The next proposal concerns the construction of a telephone exchange at Sydney East, New South Wales. The proposal is for the erection of a self-contained building comprising a basement, ground floor and 9 upper floors to cater for expected growth by local subscribers, long line equipment, and facilities for the eastern suburbs tandem exchange area to the year 1997. The estimated cost of the proposed work is S3.5m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the new facilities, that the site was suitable, and recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance. 
Regarding the construction of a telephone exchange at Woolloongabba, Queensland, the proposed work is for the erection of a self-contained building comprising a basement, ground floor, and 15 upper floors to cater for expected subscriber growth and other telecommunications equipment up to the year 2000. The estimated cost of the proposed work is Si 0.2m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the new building and concurred with the decision to establish the centre adjacent to the existing exchange, that the proposals to meet the long term needs of the expanding network are soundly based, and recommended that the work proceed to construction in this instance. The Committee also recommended that the Post Office should acquire additional land adjacent to the near complex to improve the setting of the building and the amenity of its immediate environment, including car parking. The Post Office has indicated that it intends to acquire this land when it becomes available. 
Any member of the Parliament or any member of the public would recognise, from listening to me for the last 10 minutes, the gigantic task that has been performed by the Public Works Committee. Its members are dedicated and at times they work on this Committee at their own personal inconvenience. All members of the Parliament owe them a debt of gratitude. 
 I should like to say a few brief words in my capacity as Leader of the House. Before I acknowledge those people who have been helpful to me in this capacity I shall make one or two philosophical observations. I apologise for introducing a relatively sour note into this debate but I believe this is an opportunity to mention this matter. In tonight's Sydney's 'Sun' appears an editorial headed Down to it - after  3  years'. The editorial continues: 
The usual last minute rush of legislation before an election is taking place in Canberra. 
Yesterday, the Government pushed through 25 Bills like so much mincemeat. 
The editorial goes on to demean the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Government. I will not comment on that. I regard that first sentence, not as demeaning the Government but as deliberately demeaning this institution. In this journal and in one or two others, this happens consistently. The man who wrote that editorial that the Government pushed through  25  Bills yesterday knew he was telling an untruth, obviously concocted for the sole purpose not of scoring a political point against the Government, but of trying to demean this Parliament. As it happens, for the week the Parliament passed  25  Bills. Nine Bills were passed yesterday. In the event that people might be charitable and believe that the writer of this editorial mistook a day for a week, I point out that in the next sentence of that editorial he goes on to say: 
That's about 6 times the normal daily rate. 
As Leader of the House I make an appeal, if that is possible, to the person who wrote that editorial and the people who support that sort of thing, to consider what good national purpose they are serving by demeaning this, the greatest institution in this nation. 
The second thing I want to say as Leader of the House - I thank the Prime Minister for giving me the great honour of being able to take part in the greatest exercise in human relations by appointing me as Leader of the House - is that I have been impressed by the enormous legislative programme with which this House copes. 1 have taken some figures out and, although it is very difficult to be conclusive about this matter, it seems that per head of population or by whatever comparison one makes, this Parliament passes more Bills than do most of the democratic parliaments in the world. When one is Leader of the House seeking the co-operation of members and trying to get through the legislative programme, one is very conscious that in so doing one is. precluding some honourable members from talking about national issues. 
I make the personal plea that  1  would like to see this place fulfil its other function and, rather than be just a legislative chamber be a national forum where debates of national importance can be conducted by men of different political and philosophical persuasions. One of the difficulties that I have found is that, always with the help of my friend,, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  one is always trying to influence members on both sides of the House) -  1  am not speaking so much of legislation - so that we get through the legislative programme. When a statement of great national importance is made by a Minister the tendency is to think in terms of how many from each side can take part in the debate. Will it be two or three? I think that for this place to fulfil its function we should give greater emphasis to its being a national forum. 

 Mr Speaker, I too would like to compliment you on your speakership. For me as Leader of the House ever to have, approached you asking for some mild favour for myself or the Government would have been an act of impropriety, most improper. For that reason I would not do it, but even if that sort of temptation did occur to me I know that approaching you for this purpose would be a completely worthless exercise because that sort of proposition would be offensive to the impartiality you have, shown. I pay tribute too to your deputies and to the Whips. I mention one person in particular my friend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who, I think, spends 95 per cent of the parliamentary week in his seat. I acknowledge the chief Whips, the, honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  and the  deputy  Whips the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  and of course the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  but especially the honourable member for Angas because he is my liaison. I thank him for it. I thank also my close friend the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  for his guidance to me in the time that 1 have been Leader of the House. I thank the Clerks also. I am sure that all honourable members would acknowledge their help on doubtful points when members of Parliament are not au fait with matters of detail. 
Finally, I thank very sincerely the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who, in fact, is my counterpart in ensuring that the business of the House runs smoothly. I could not have wanted more co-operation from him than 1 got. It was always given in the spirit of frankness and friendliness. That is not to say that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition or myself could see a political point that could be gained by playing the political game hard, we would not take it, but where civilised conduct and conversation ensured smoothness in the running of the House both of us accepted each other's point of view. In fact, such is the co-operation I have received from the honourable gentleman that when my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  suggested at tennis today that I might ask for leave for him to sing, in the adjournment debate, that extract from 'White Horse Inn'  . . and now I go to fight a savage foe' I thought that would not have been an impossible request to put to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
The mind boggles at it,  Mr Speaker.  I wish all members good health and a happy Christmas with their families. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Section 13 of the Spirits Act provides the owner of spirits, which have apparently become unfit for human consumption whilst still under the control of Customs, with an alternative means of disposal. Under other provisions of both the Customs Act and the Excise Act the duty liable on the spirits would be remitted upon the destruction of those goods. The Spirits Act provision allows such spirit to be methylated and subsequently used for industrial purposes. 
Not applicable in view of (1). 
No. 
Neither the Customs Tariff nor other Customs legislation would act to prohibit the importation of any potable spirits because of the particular alcoholic content of that spirit. However, before any potable spirit is marketed it would be necessary that it comply with any relevant State Government legislation. 
I. see no basis for comparison between the strength at which particular alcoholic beverages are marketed and the tar or nicotine content of tobacco products. 
I ask the Minister for Overseas Trade a question about the terrifying concept of a Cairns bank. I refer to the Minister's reported statement that where the Government considers that some activity is in the national interest the Government will direct the Australian Industry Development Corporation to assist it - presumably whether or not the industry wants, needs or asks for assistance. Because of the enormous implications that such naked socialism would have for the whole structure of Australian society, will the Minister make a full statement in the House of the Government's intentions on this matter and on other matters, instead of honourable members and industry leaders having to read of them in leaks from members of the Economic Sub-Committee of Cabinet published in the financial Press? 
The Opposition welcomes this Agreement and supports the Government's action in signing it and its proposal to ratify it. Consistent with the policies followed by the previous Government, the present Government has entered into this Agreement. I would be remiss if I did not mention in passing the outstanding work done by the right honourable member  for  Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Australian Country Party, in negotiating some international commodity agreements, particularly the magnificent work he did on the international sugar agreement and, to some extent, the renegotiation of the international wheat agreement. The Opposition strongly supports international commodity agreements provided they come within the ambit of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did not mention in his speech that this agreement was under the auspices of GAIT. He rightly said that it was under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development but, if my memory serves me correctly, it was in the early stages sponsored by GATT and later carried on by UNCTAD. As the Minister said, this particular commodity has gone through the agony of at least 7 years of negotiation before the Agreement was signed. Going through Press cuttings in the Parliamentary Library one sees the headline in the Financial Times' in 1967: 'Still no decision on cocoa pact*, and a couple of months later: 'All set for international cocoa agreement*. Another month later in The Economist' under the headline 'Success at Geneva', the following appears: 
The governments of the world's 14 leading cocoa producers and consumers have finally hammered out an agreement at Geneva, with only some minor details still to be settled. 
That was stated in 'The Economist' in October 1967. Yet in 1973, 6 years after that, the Minister comes into the House and finally announces success. One of the strange aspects of this Agreement is that it has been signed by 41 countries at a time when the international cocoa industry is in good shape. I think the Minister would agree with me that the history of international commodity agreements shows that they are usually negotiated and signed by countries when the industry is in diabolical trouble. It so happens that it has been estimated that this year there will be a record world production of cocoa of 1.55 million metric tons. It is expected that consumption this year will exceed the supply, which will result in 2 things - a rundown of stocks and pressure for higher prices. 
The significance of this Agreement to Australia is twofold. Firstly, we have signed it as an importing country. I do not think that very much cocoa is grown in Australia per se and we have signed the Agreement as an importing country. We have also signed the Agreement, as the Minister says, on behalf of or jointly with the Territory of Papua New Guinea, which is an exporting country. The Minister has graciously agreed to allow my friend and colleague the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who is the Opposition's spokesman on the External Territories portfolio, to say a few words about the implications of this Agreement as far as Papua New Guinea is concerned. I will just mention the point as I have no doubt that he will develop it that Papua New; Guinea is not one of the leading exporters of cocoa - in fact it exports only 2 per cent of total world exports - but cocoa represents 20 per cent of the total exports of Papua New Guinea. 1 wish to make 2 points briefly. Australia has a fine record in honouring international commodity agreements. It can be said that most countries have generally honoured international commodity agreements. If one wanted to be impeccably fair one would have to say that the only black mark on Australia's history in respect of international commodity agreements - it would probably be a brown mark rather than a black mark - would be concerning wheat, but that was something that occurred when Australia was simply doing what all other countries were doing. The disappointing thing about this Agreement, as the Minister pointed out, is that although 41 nations have signed it the world's greatest importer - the United States of America - has not. That, as the Minister rightly said, is a matter for some regret. He gave no reasons as to why the United States had not signed it. It may be that he does not know. I do not know, but I am given to understand from information supplied to me that the United States, together with some other countries, has expressed concern that there has been a breakdown recently in the honouring of the International Coffee Agreement. There were allegations that some of the exporters of coffee had not honoured the Coffee Agreement because they had raised prices and so on. They have retorted that they have raised prices because of the devaluation of the American dollar. Other countries have said that that is not according to the rules of the game. When one looks at the producers and exporters of cocoa one sees that many of them are also the main exporters of coffee. Perhaps the United States of America is worrying about the so-called breaking of the International Coffee Agreement because many of the signatories to it are signatories to this Agreement. Whatever the reason might be, I join with the Minister in expressing the hope that the United States will soon see fit to sign and ratify this Agreement because the United States is in fact the largest consumer of coffee. 
In conclusion I want to say that the most pleasing feature of this Agreement is that it shows that fortuitously the exporters of cocoa are generally underdeveloped or developing nations. We on this side of the House would strenuously support any move that this Parliament takes to assist in the development of those nations and in the raising of their standards of living and, indeed, quality of life. 
Both of these Bills have the purpose of making beer produced in the home for non-commercial purposes exempt from excise duty. The present excise leviable by the Commonwealth on beer is about $1.10 a gallon which, when reduced to the excise on each bottle, means that the consumer buying beer at a bottle shop or an hotel is charged about 17c a bottle excise in the current price of something like 44c a bottle. The question of home brew is now before the House. The proposal is to allow beer to be produced or brewed in a home without the payment of excise. The Opposition supports this amendment. I point out that this decision, as the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  pointed out during his speech, is in line with the decisions taken in Great Britain and New Zealand where home brewing has been permitted for many years. 
The present system is that beer brewed at home and not sold can be brewed free of excise, provided it is below 2 per cent proof, as it used to be known. One of my acts last year as Minister for Customs and Excise was to bring into this House legislation amending the way in which alcohol was measured. Honourable members might recall that there was an archaic  system  of measuring the strength of alcohol. I think some of the story has been lost in history, but the word 'proof came into common usage when a speck of gunpowder was put on the liquid and when it ignited and burst into flame it proved that the alcohol was pretty potent. In that way, the word proof' came into the language and was adopted generally. 
The Minister might be more expert in those ways than I; I am a temperate and virtuous member of Parliament. The breweries made an estimate some time ago that about 20 million gallons of home brew was produced in Australian homes each year. Although I am not a suspicious man, I could almost be persuaded to believe that not one gallon of that 20 mollion gallons was below 2 per cent proof. Therefore, the Act became rather farcical, unenforceable and unpoliceable. 
I believe that it would be un-Australian and would be regarded as such by the Australian people to expect Customs officers to burst into a home where it was reasonably suspected that the householder was making his own home brew. At the excise rate of $1.10 a gallon, if the brewery estimate of 20 million gallons is correct there is a theoretical loss to revenue of more than $20m each year. I say that it is theoretical because if such beer is being produced at the moment - we believe it is - the excise is not now being collected. The only manner in which it could be collected would be for the Department of Customs and Excise to add an army of enforcers to its staff to police this law, and we do not believe that to be economical or desirable for the reasons that I have mentioned. 
In recent years beer has undergone the phenomenon that almost everything else, from divorce to other matters, has undergone, namely, the production of do it yourself kits. There has been a flush of various do it yourself kits for home brewed beer which, I suspect, has resulted in the astronomical rise in sales of plastic dustbins which has been reflected in retail sales figures. Happily for government revenue, the pattern seems to be that a householder can get his bottles free in the form of the empties that he has after buying bottled beer from the brewery or the hotel and drinking it. He saves himself 17c a bottle in excise and suddenly it seems to be a lucrative proposition for him to brew beer at home either in his plastic dustbin or, to the consternation of his wife, in the enamel bath. However, for many reasons, the lustre of this exercise seems to lose a little of its keenness after a time and experience seems to be that many people who come into this venture with a burst of enthusiasm soon lose that enthusiasm and are queueing up at the bottle shop after a month or two of experimentation. 
For those reasons we believe that the measure is a wise one. It is in line with comparable legislation in other countries. Alternative legislation could not be policed and the existing legislation has never been policed except when breaches have been reported to the Department of Customs and Excise. My friend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is not in the chamber but I would like to put a personal view. One looks at the justice of the complete removal of excise from wine while beer drinkers still pay excise of 17c a bottle. The equity of that action has never quite been described to me. I have never been persuaded on it. Further, I have never quite been persuaded about a party which is the self-confessed champion of the workers but insists that a worker pay excise of 17c on each battle of beer he drinks while an executive having his bottle of wine in a plush restaurant drinks it excise free. With those remarks the Opposition supports the Bill. 
I would like to express the gratitude of myself and the Opposition to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for making a statement in this House on such an important matter. The Opposition should not really have to thank Government Ministers for doing this. Without trying to make cheap political capital on this point, let me say that I and all my colleagues on this side of the House have become deeply concerned of late at the number of statements of basic policy that are being announced outside this House and not brought into this House. Even the Minister himself, speaking at a textile industry function a few days ago, mentioned that textiles in the sensitive areas need not worry in the future and that he would appoint some special watchdog to take care of any short term difficulties that industry might be having. He said that the industry had no cause for alarm. 
In the text of the Minister's statement I saw no reference to the future role of the Special Advisory Authority,  Sir Frank  Meere. What the Minister is proposing for the textile industry may be something with which the Opposition would thoroughly agree and would support, but we do not know what he is proposing apart from what we read in the newspapers or hear of speeches at a dinner. I believe that if this Parliament is to function properly, Ministers should be making statements on fundamental issues in this House so that they may be debated. On the issue of New Zealand-Australia trade relations I commend the Minister. He returned from New Zealand only 10 days ago. I am not critical at all of him or the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who recently returned from an overseas trip and gave a Press conference. I support that. 
I would expect that of the honourable gentleman. Of course Press conferences have to be given, but if this House could be informed of the results of such visits at the earliest possible time it would help this institution. It was refreshing to hear the Minister acknowledge the work done by previous governments. He mentioned the right honourable  Sir John  McEwen. He did not mention the present Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  but I am sure that he also joined the right honourable gentleman in that acknowledgment. At the end of his speech the Minister very graciously paid a tribute to the co-operation of  Mr Freer,  the New Zealand Minister for Trade and Industry. Off the cuff - it did not appear in his printed statement - he paid tribute to the officials of his own Department. I had a note to mention that, too. The Opposition believes that the statement made by the Minister for Overseas Trade was an excellent one. We support what he has done, what he has tried to do and what he is trying to do in this area because it is really a follow on, as he calls it - a different phase of the policies we started. Having been a Minister myself, I know that when a Minister goes to a conference with a Minister from another country he is preceded by officials of his own department who have prior discussions with officials from that other country. Without taking away from the work of the Minister himself one bit, I join with him in paying a tribute to the officials of his Department. 
It was also refreshing to hear my honourable friend talk about free trade again. He was talking about the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, which is the subject of the statement. I do not know when I have heard him enjoy himself so much for a long time, because I believe that this is the true philosophy of the Minister for Overseas Trade. Those of us who have noted his statements and studied them carefully in recent times have been disappointed at the 180 degree turn which the honourable gentleman has taken in the last 2 years on trade philosophy. I have in my office a copy of a speech which he made 2 years ago which, I suggest, is a model for any country like Australia to follow in overseas trade relations. It contained a great deal of courageous material. I have no doubt that trade unions and other pressure groups in the community, such as employer pressure groups, which sometimes can be as irresponsible and selfish as any trade union pressure group, have got to him. I am disappointed that the speeches he made in the last 18 months to 2 years seemed to go in the reverse direction. He is now back to the very strong protectionist philosophy that the Australian Labor Party had in its early times. I look forward to an early statement by the Minister in this House about his philosophy and Government policy generally on trade as they now stand. Without trying to cause mischief in the Australian Labor Party, I personally hope that the Minister will return to his early philosophy, which I believe he still holds. That philosophy is supported by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and others in the Cabinet. I wish him well in the forthcoming battles in Cabinet. 
As I said before, the Minister's visit and discussions were a follow on from the previous Government's negotiations with the New Zealand Government. In his statement the Minister indicated the success of this Agreement. He said that the growth of trade between the 2 countries has increased from $218m in 1965-66 to $390m in 1972- a growth rate in trade of 78 per cent over that 7-year period. In any terms this should be described as pleasing. The Minister paid some attention to Article 3:7 of the Agreement. It reads: 
In relation to goods nol at the time listed in Schedule A to this Agreement, the Member States may agree on and implement special measures beneficial to the trade and development of each Member State and designed to further the objectives of this Agreement. Such measures may include the remission or reduction of duties on agreed goods or classes of goods in part or in whole. 
As I understand it, the purpose of Article 3:7 is to find some half way house between the duty free treatment envisaged for goods in Schedule A - which goods are specified in Schedule A and accorded duty free treatment - and the treatment accorded to other goods on which highly protective tariffs may presently obtain. It is wide enough to allow a variety of approaches to stimulate the 2-way flow of goods between Australia and New Zealand without immediately going the full distance of including these products in Schedule A to which the Minister referred. Once a product has been included in Schedule A, both governments are reluctant to see it withdrawn, even though there are procedures in the Agreement to enable this to be done. I will refer to that in a moment. 
According to the Minister's own Department, in 179 cases where trade under Article 3:7 has been approved there have been case by case variations in detail and approach, but one central feature has been present in the majority of them. This feature is the temporary elimination of duty into Australia for the specified New Zealand goods and, for the Australian goods, the availability of an import licence entitlement in New Zealand or import licence entitlement and duty reduction. As each Article 3:7 proposal must have the approval of both governments a set of criteria has been established against which to measure each proposal. Here is a point that the Minister properly brought out in his statement: The proposals are initiated not by the governments but by businessmen in each country, who agree on the details of a mutually satisfactory trading arrangement and then submit their proposal to their respective governments for approval. The 2 governments then examine the proposals against the criteria mentioned above. I wonder whether the Minister would agree with me that in the past this has been done quite well. It is reflected in the growth figures that he quoted. But these moves essentially have been made on a firm to firm basis between an individual company in Australia and an individual company in New Zealand. I would prefer - I suspect that the Minister would also - that in future this agreement which holds so much possibility and potential should be conducted on an industry basis. An Australian industry might move towards its counterpart in New Zealand on an industry to industry basis to get the best results from this agreement. 
As the Minister said - I was pleased to hear him say it - the Government is not the initiator in these matters: The. initiative rests with business. Governments provide the machinery, such as this agreement, and provide assistance and advice. Governments have done this in the past and will do it in the future. The ultimate objective surely is to have more items included in Schedule A or under the auspices of Article 37 of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. The Minister referred to a third country and economies of scale. I thoroughly agree with that part of his statement. If Australia with its market of 13 million people and New Zealand with its market of 3 million people are to combine to have a common market for certain items then the resultant economies of scale, theoretically at least, must have an effect of reducing costs. Australia and New Zealand can also approach other countries jointly with a view to expanding the trade of Australia and New Zealand into those countries. 
The Minister inferred that new industries should not be established in either country without consultation from an altruistic point of view on whether such establishment is good for NAFTA. The Minister is realistic enough to know that with established industries an Australian businessman will not be altruistic enough to say to a New Zealand counterpart: Your firm can do this a little better than mine. I will close up my industry and give you a free go at it.' But the Minister suggested that with the establishment of new industries there might be consultation. I thoroughly agree with him. However, I am just cynical enough to suspect that that proposition is a dream that sounds good but in the fierce world of business might never come true. If a businessman sees opportunity in Australia for the establishment of a certain industry I doubt whether he will consider the overall effects of Pacific trade and the benefits to Australia and New Zealand. But I wish the Minister and the Government good luck in anything that can be done to influence industry in this way. 
On the question of economies of scale, the Minister mentioned things with which I agree and thoroughly support. But the history of NAFTA shows some disappointments. I will not take up the time of the House in discussing all those difficulties. The difficulties in relation to timber would be well known to the Minister. This would have been a matter mentioned in a good mannered way by  Mr Freer  or not mentioned at all but kept under the carpet at the recent talks. These difficulties arose, as the Minister knows, between Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd and Tasman Pulp and Paper Co. Ltd in New Zealand. There was an unfortunate series of events with the manufacturers of lino board. A retaliatory action was taken by the Australian company in not accepting pulp from New Zealand. As far as I am informed that problem has been concluded reasonably satisfactorily. 
I hope that future parties to arrangements under Article 3 : 7 or schedule A will have regard to the unfortunate incident concerning timber products and learn from it. When I express some disappointment at what NAFTA could have created but has not quite achieved I do not think that I am wrong in my assumption about one of the original thoughts behind the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. (Extension of time granted). I thank the Minister and the House. I assume that one of the hopes behind the setting up of NAFTA was that if certain dairy products could be produced more efficiently and economically in New Zealand, with the dairy reconstruction scheme in Australia the production of those products in Australia might have been phased out. The quality and efficiency of the Australian dairy industry would have been improved, dairy produce supplied more cheaply to the Australian consumer and even New Zealand dairy produce allowed into Australia duty free. That has not happened and it did not happen under a Liberal PartyCountry Party Government. Therefore, I cannot be critical of the Government in this area. 
I can appreciate the difficulties which are involved in the reconstruction of an industry. There are human problems as well as economic problems. It takes a lot of courage for governments to approach the people concerned and persuade them that it is in their best interests and the best interests of the nation to bring about changes. 
I again wish the Minister for Overseas Trade good luck on the future of NAFTA. I wish him all the courage that will be needed for him to implement policies. The proposed changes will mean that some Australian industries willi have to be told: 'I am sorry. It is not economic or efficient or in the best interests of Australia for you to continue to receive protection. It is in the interests of NAFTA and both Australia and New Zealand for that protection to be reduced'. That will cause hardship and worry for 2 sections of the Australian community, namely, the trade unions concerned and the employers concerned, or perhaps members of the industry concerned. 
I am not writing down the difficulties the Minister will have in this area. This proposal is palpably right. It is right for the Australian consumer and the New Zealand consumer and right overall for the labour force of both countries. It is right for the economic growth of both countries. It is right for the economic security and viability of this region. If it is right I believe that with courage and persuasion, both trade unions and employers can be and must be convinced that selfish devotion to their own industry or company is not in the national interest. I am pleased to say that the Opposition supports what the Minister for Overseas Trade has done and we thank him for his grace in acknowledging the work of previous governments and particularly the work of  Sir John  McEwen and the present Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony). 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
--! rise to speak briefly about the attitude of the courts of this country to drug pedlars. In 11 years in this Parliament I have spoken only twice in the adjournment debate. I rise tonight because 1 feel so strongly about this situation. This Parliament and every other Parliament in this nation, whether they are Liberal, Labor or Country Party dominated, have agreed that drug pedlars - I am not talking about the user pedlars; 1 am talking about drug pedlars - should be liable to a maximum penalty of 10 years gaol. I leave aside those people who are addicts. They are to be pitied and they should be treated. I am now talking about pushers or pedlars. The Parliament, with the unanimous support of members of the Australian Labor Party, when we were in Government agreed that there should be a 10-year gaol sentence. I have referred to the courts before. When I was the Minister for Customs and Excise over 2 years there were 150 prosecutions for drug peddling and the average sentence imposed by judges and magistrates was 15.2 months. I have stated on the floor of this Parliament that that kind of attitude by the courts passes my comprehension, because with that weak gutted attitude of the courts the drug pusher laughs all the way to the bank. 
What has made me rise in anger tonight is an issue which I feel reluctant to raise because I have respect for the conventions of this Parliament and I do not want to refer to something which is sub judice. Therefore I will cloud what 1 have to say so as not to offend that convention. I am relying on a newspaper report, some of which 1 have substantiated. 
Recently - if I could put it that way, in a court in this country a man, if I may call him that, was convicted of selling the drug lysergic acid diethylamide or LSD - more than 100 microdot tablets - for a sum of several hundred dollars. LSD is a drug that terrifies me. It is a drug that can induce in people who take it a recurrent psychosis months after taking it, without their taking it again. A person can be cast into a hallucinogenic state, causing him to jump off a high building in the belief that he is a bird or an aeroplane. The effects are devastating. 
The man to whom I referred was convicted of selling this drug. The magistrate used such words as: 'People like you are filth', 'You should be put away' and 'You are filth in the community'. Then, in a great gesture of acceding to justice and the wishes of this Parliament and the wishes of every State Parliament in this nation, he sentenced this creature to 12 months gaol, to serve a minimum of 2 months. This means that after a period of 8 weeks this man. who has made a fortune in peddling and preying on the depravities of young unsuspecting Australians, will be free and laughing all the way to the bank. Sometimes in this Parliament we hear about deterrents. One wonders at the capabilities of a man such as this magistrate to sit on the bench in a court in this nation. Such a sentence and such an attitude pass my comprehension. 
My question, which I address to the Prime Minister, follows on 2 questions asked by my Leader of the Treasurer and the Minister for Immigration, both of whom read in this morning's Press statements on policy affecting their own portfolios by 2 other Ministers. I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the statements made yesterday by the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, purporting to be Government policy but which apparently are not government policy, and which have not even been discussed between the Ministers involved, let alone the Cabinet, will the Prime Minister instruct all his Ministers not to make such statements before proper consideration by Cabinet so that industry will not be put and kept in utter confusion? 

 - Mr Deputy 


 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent honourable members expressing their views on the Government's action in gagging the previous debate. 
I will not detain the House more than 3 minutes but 1 deeply resent being gagged in the previous debate, and I know that other honourable members on this side of the House were also gagged. I will not be pushing this motion to a division therefore taking up the time of the House. I merely want to make one or two points in three or four minutes. In my time in this Parliament, I do not know of any social issue that has been brought before this House - it has not been brought before the House by honourable members on this side but by 2 honourable members on the Government side - which affects humanity and social living standards as does this Bill. Millions of women, men and children, both born and unborn, can be affected by this Bill which will be introduced by those 2 honourable members. There has been no greater social issue since I have been a member of this Parliament- 
I rise to order,  Mr Speaker.  During the time that my friend and leader was speaking, that honourable and Christian gentleman from Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  interjected and said: 'You are a humbug and a hypocrite'. That interjection is offensive to me and to every honourable member on this side of the House, and I ask that, it be withdrawn. 
House he comes, but I assure the honourable member that I heard no interjection of the kind. I call the honourable member for Wilmot. 
I think this is the first time 1 have spoken in the Grievance Day debate in 11 years in this Parliament. I am impelled to do so to grieve over the way in which the question of abortion law reform has been treated in this Parliament and outside this Parliament. I am conscious of Standing Orders and therefore will not refer to the debate itself of last week. Firstly, I grieve about the way in which the debate was allowed to be conducted. As I have said before, a matter which at some time or other impacts itself upon every family in this nation was allowed  3i hoars  of debate. I was one of many members who wished to speak on this important subject but were gagged by the Government. Perhaps that is not important. What is important is the way in which the matter was put to a vote. One had to vote either yes or no to a Bill, without being given the opportunity of explaining one's attitude. 
Or moving further amendments. There were 2 other amendments, to my knowledge, which were circulated and which had a particular appeal to some honourable members but which were not allowed even to be referred to in the debate. 
I am impelled to speak today because of an article by a so-called well informed, objective, unbiased journalist, David Solomon, which appeared in the 'Canberra Times' on Tuesday last. One wonders about his objectivity, because since the election his pen has not been seen to have raised one criticism of the way in which the Labor Party is running this 
House, of the evasive way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is answering questions or of anything like that. Every time his pen takes to paper it seems to be in criticism of a Liberal or Liberals. Without me or my friend, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  being allowed to speak in the debate, this man, without coming to see us or soliciting our attitudes, wrote: 
. Liberal voters with liberal leanings have always been able to point to progressive Liberals within the party such as  Mr Peacock  and  Mr Chipp,  but after Thursday's vote they had no one to point to as upholding their banner on their behalf . . . 

 Mr Chipp and  Mr Peacock  meantime have cut themselves off from those in the Liberal Party who looked to them for a lead in liberal attitudes. 
Then came this contemptible allegation: 
They would not risk antagonising their more conservative colleagues, but they have gained nothing by doing so. 
What impertinence for a man to write that and to ascribe those motivations to my friend the honourable member for Kooyong, and me without paying us the courtesy of asking us What are your views on abortion?' when, because of the way the debate was gagged in this House, neither of us had an opportunity to put our views. I take this opportunity to put them. 
I am for abortion law reform, but I was opposed to the Bill as it was presented here last Thursday. That was the dilemma in which I and many other members of this House found ourselves. 
Yes, 1 did. Some of the reasons why I was opposed to the Bill were stated during the debate. For example, the Bill did not provide for, say, a 13-year-old child who is pregnant to have reference to her parents before an abortion is carried out. That palpably was a weakness in the Bill. The Bill made no provision whatever for a husband to be consulted on the matter of his wife having an abortion. I am not suggesting that a husband has paramount rights; but I would have thought that in many circumstances equity would have screamed out for consultation with the husband. Even though, as a liberal, one could get oneself to the view that a woman has every right to do with her body as she pleases - that could be a liberal view - once one overcomes, if one can, the hurdle that a foetus has a right to life, I was finally persuaded by a report by  Dr and Mrs Wynn  who had some evidence that once a woman had had 3 or 4 abortions and then decided to have a child the chances of that child suffering some serious pre-natal or perinatal handicap were increased considerably. As a liberal who cares for human beings, if this evidence is right and I do not know whether it is, I must be concerned that there is a possibility, where there is abortion on request or demand, of a child being born seriously handicapped. These considerations bothered me and that is why I could not vote for the Bill as it was. 
I was confused by so much of this socalled evidence that the Right to Life Association sent me with the accompanying statement of  Sir John  Peel, the Queen's gynaecologist, describing the Wynn report as a very valuable piece of research. I do not know how valuable the piece of research was. For all I know,  Sir John  Peel might have gone on to say that although it was a good piece of research he did not agree with the conclusions. So, what I and my friend, the honourable member for Kooyong, and other honourable members wanted was an inquiry to ascertain more facts about this question. This brings me to the point of why I am speaking today. The Right to Life Association mounted the most cohesive organised pressure campaign that it has been my experience to see since I came into this Parliament. I do not object to that. I encourage pressure groups to put their views to members of Parliament. Those people who believe that abortion is bad had every right to try to get the Bill killed. I admire people who enter into the public controversial arena to put their views to Parliament or to members of Parliament. 
However, I regard it as the height of impertinence that, once the word got out that the Bill had no chance - that was about Monday of last week - from information fed by members of this Parliament to the Right to Life Association, that was not enough for it. lt then had to kill the royal commission. What that means in simple language is that the Association will forbid this Parliament and members of this Parliament spoiling a good argument by the addition of a few facts. If we have reached the stage where members of this Parliament are pressured not to inquire into these tremendous social problems by a pressure group which is entirely opposed to any reform, we have reached a very sorry state in the affairs of this nation. On Wednesday and Thursday 2,500 telegrams were deliv ered to members of this Parliament - paid for by God knows who, but somebody out there had plenty of money. Those telegrams were not directed to asking members not to vote for the Bill; they said: 'No Bill; demand you vote against the amendment'. 
Any amendment. The amendment that was before the House said, in effect: 'Let us get some more facts'. I, like every other member of this House, have gone through the agony of the question: What is the right thing to do about abortion reform? I do not know. I had to come to the view that the Bill, as it was, was not the right thing, although I pay a compliment to the proposer of the Bill, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  and the seconder, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  for the splendid way in which they presented the Bill. I thought  it  was wise and proper to raise this objection on Grievance Day. I give notice - and I have the permission of my friend and colleague the honourable member for Kooyong to join him with me - that I will not be daunted by a pressure group such as this which says to me Chipp, you must not have any more facts'  on  an important social question. I will sponsor a move, if someone does not pre-empt me as I believe someone may to put a motion before this House for some inquiry to be made into these agonising questions on a matter which impacts itself on every family throughout this nation at one time or another. Such a proposal will have my utter and complete support. 
I ask the Prime Minister about a Caucus decision described by commentator Allan Barnes as 'one of the most significant taken since Labor came to office'. My question is in 2 parts. Firstly, has Caucus ruled that in future all Cabinet decisions relating to changes in bounties, subsidies and tariffs must be first approved by Caucus before announcement? Secondly, if so, how does the Prime Minister propose to prevent the inevitable speculation and possible chaos that could occur on stock exchanges if such proposals are leaked between the time of introduction to the Party room debate and the subsequent public announcement of the Caucus decision? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What is the present situation concerning the export ban on kangaroo products. 
Were any sections of the trade consulted before the decision was taken. 
On what evidence did the Minister base his decision to impose the ban when the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation believed that a total ban was not the answer, as only a few species were in danger of extinction. 
Has the Minister any evidence that the rate of shooting kangaroos has increased markedly since the application of the ban. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security concerning the Australian Labor Party's proposed health scheme. Can the Minister give the House an unequivocal assurance that, under that scheme, medical practitioners will be paid on a fee for service basis as is in fact recommended by the Deeble-Scotton report? Can he also give similar assurance that in no circumstances will they be paid on any form of capitation basis as is done in the United Kingdom health scheme? 
In responding to this motion I first thank the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for his courtesy in allowing me to look at these reports last evening and also for the great pleasure of joining him at dinner and meeting the charming, intelligent  chairman  of the Commission. I sincerely hope that neither the Minister nor I is responsible for the fact that she has to wear dark glasses today. 
After complimenting the Minister on his courtesy I want to make a point about something which has nothing to do with the Minister and I do not blame the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly);  it is part of this system that seems to be bugging us and we are as much to blame as the Government is now. Here is one of the most important social documents laid down in this Parliament for 20 years and I have had less than 12 hours to study it. Today the House has not time to debate it and it seems to me that the workings of this Parliament are out of perspective when we go on for hours and hours with tedious debates about holes in the road when something as fundamental as this, which affects almost every person in Australia, is rushed through and honourable members are told to shorten their speaking time. 
I should like to compliment the Commission for an outstanding document and I extend my appreciation to the Minister for embracing it and its philosophies. Indeed, one would almost be persuaded that a Liberal Minister wrote the document and embraced its philosophies. This is in fact liberalism at work. It is a document and a speech to which I personally would have been proud to attach my name. I quote from the Minister's statement the following comment which was taken from the report: 
The aim of a social welfare system is to produce, through a range of social policies, a social environment in which every individual has the opportunity to develop his unique potential, and in which various supports are offered to those individuals who, through some inherited or acquired disadvantage or handicap, need special assistance. 
That is most commendable. It has been Liberal policy for years and we accept it. The Minister had a tilt at previous Governments. That is his right. I would feel that I was not doing my duty if, while acknowledging that maybe he was correct in that, I did not pay a public tribute to my friend and colleague the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who was Minister for Social Services for 3 years in the last Government and who continuously in and out of Cabinet advocated the very kind of philosophy that is in this document. I think that should be on the public record. 
If honourable members opposite want to make cheap political points out of a serious matter like this that is their right. I thought it was proper to put on record the performance of my friend and colleague. 
I should like to deal particularly with the philosophy of the report, and I shall break it up into 7 sections. The first one is that the Commission right at the outset said that it will wait before making any recommendations to the Government - and the Government has accepted this - after it has received the many reports and evaluation statements about homeless men and women, national superannuation plans and so on. This is a responsible recommendation and it is the action of a responsible Government in accepting it. I commend the Government for it. 
The next point is that the Commission is advocating a new look at social welfare problems. No longer does the Government propose to look at social welfare only in the context of dispensing charity to somebody who happens to be disadvantaged. This I thoroughly agree with. Even the approach of dispensing charity has an inbuilt disadvantage because if one approaches people in indigent circumstances and makes them feel special, they then feel like patients. They then will not participate in any social welfare programs and the whole thing is self defeating. I support that section of the report. 
The third point concerns community involvement. It is refreshing for a Labor Government and a Labor Minister to be saying that it is not the intention of the Government to take over all social welfare activities and that they want to encourage voluntary community involvement, which, if I can be excused for having a small tilt of my own. seems to be 180 degrees from their philosophy in implementing the health scheme. I believe it is vital in the twentieth century for the Government to encourage community involvement. We are now proceeding apace to the hideous situation in which Melbourne will have 5 million people and Sydney will have 7 million people by the year 2000. One wonders how in the name of fortune a human being living in those cities can have any sense of involvement or any sense of participation being a member of such an amorphous mass. I believe that governments have a responsibility in this area which the Minister and the Commission recognise. 
I make a plea to the Minister and through him to the Commission that in involving voluntary organisations, there is an enormous number of amateurs who could be involved in assisting in social welfare problems. As one example, I cite the Honorary Probationer Service in Victoria where housewives and ordinary people are appointed by (he courts as honorary probation officers to lighten the load on the paid professionals. I believe that in most activities of social welfare there are great opportunities for the recruitment of such people. 
I wish to quote from the report one section which shows the Commission's philosophy. It states: 
Therefore, the Commission will give detailed attention to the development in other areas of social policy of an appreciation of the welfare implications of such matters as incomes policy, the taxation system, recreation, housing and immigration policy, urban development . . . 
It is extremely refreshing that a broad look will be taken at these matters. In respect  at  housing, for example, one of the most hideous monuments to Liberalism in Australia is the way in which Liberal governments and Labor governments - but I am being critical of Liberals - solved the slum problems in Melbourne and Sydney. People were living in slums and a computer or some boffin suggested that the cheapest, most efficient way to solve that problem was to tear the slums down and erect high rise flats in their place without thinking for one moment of the impact of that on the individual concerned and without thinking about the kind of environment, both social and other, of the child living on the 31st storey of a 32-storey high rise flat. 
In relation to recreation, I hope that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  will not be obsessed with the term 'recreation'. It seems that to local councils and do-gooders in the community recreation for youth is often translated as building better sports stadia and beautiful playing fields so that the strong, decent young men in the community can play cricket and football. As an avid, almost fanatical cricketer and footballer, I support that action. But what of the kid who is a dropout, who wears no shoes, long hair, T-shirt and jeans and who despises the establishment? We can build a thousand beautiful sportsgrounds for him and that action will be of no avail. I would hope that the Commission would get under and look at the kid who feels disadvantaged, who feels outside society, and recommend to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the kind of recreational activities that are realistic for such a kid. 
Another area I am glad that the Commission is looking into is education. That is mentioned in this report. Does anybody in this Parliament ever consider the effect on individuals of what our education system in almost all the States of the Commonwealth does to a young Australian at the age of 16 years or 17 years? There he or she is at an age when their minds are at their sharpest, when theninclination for social activities with the opposite sex are emerging and are probably at their strongest and when their need for a social existence is strong. What does the system do to those kids? It says: 'For this year, in your seventeenth year, we will make you work from 9 o'clock in the morning till 10.30 p.m., every day of the week - or at least 6 days of the week. We will make it impossible for you to engage in a normal social life with your colleagues. You will be stuck in your room studying subjects from this ridiculous syllabus that is set by most State education departments for teenagers today'. 
Why in the name of fortune it is necessary for education departments, for example, with respect to the English literature course to set a teenage child 14 books to read, to absorb and to understand, and another 10 books dealing with English expression passes beyond my comprehension. Surely it is in the wit of the educators of this country to devise a system which does not deny young human beings the enjoyment of that time of their lives which should be for the development of their social graces and their personality and which does not turn a lot of them into physical and mental wrecks. At the end of the year, the educators say: 'We will prescribe for you an examination paper that a normal human being would take 6 hours to complete; but for you, just because we single you out in the community, we will set you 3 hours to do it'. The impact of that year alone on the teenage population of Australia - I have personally observed its effects - I hope would be one matter that the Commission would examine under that heading. 
We approve also of the Commision's view of experimentation, of non-uniformity in the various States of the Commonwealth. We also believe, as the Commission believes, that it is desirable in the long term to establish a welfare system in which the services are planned and provided at the most decentralised level consistent with efficient administration. The Commission believes in regionalism, as we do. But may I sound a note of warning here. The Liberal Party stands for the sustenance and the preservation of Commonwealth-State relations, a 2-tiered form of government, with 2 prongs - State governments and local councils - to the second tier. I find nothing in this report or in the statement by the Minister to he in conflict with that posture or attitude. I commend the Commission for recommending the concept of regionalism. But I do sound this warning: Before the Government and before the Commission recommend a certain region to undertake certain responsibilities, for goodness sake, prepare for the day so that in the local area the administration is efficient enough to administer the responsibilities which the Commission or the Government wishes it to undertake. 
I can think of nothing worse than, in a certain region of a State the Commission not going into the matter thoroughly enough to determine whether the administration in the area is competent to administer this terribly complex and highly sensitive area of social welfare, and the administration in that region collapsing. The responsibility then would revert to the central government. This would be bad for government, bad for social welfare and, I am sure, is a responsibility which neither the Minister nor his Department wishes to undertake, that is, to have to organise and administer centrally every social welfare program in every region of the country. (Extension of time granted) I thank the Minister for Social Security and the House. 
The philosphy of the report reflects an obvious awareness that modern social problems are rarely, if ever, the result of a single event or shortcoming and therefore require a complex and continuous response from a variety of agencies and individuals. Few people in need of support are simply impoverished or simply suffering from malnutrition, for example. Most individual crises are a result of several or many interacting pressures, all of which may require attention. For example, the family in danger of disintegration does not need just marriage guidance counsel alone. There are financial problems present, probably work pressure problems and problems with the children, of personal adjustment in the parents, and many other problems, all of which need attention. Does anybody here believe that a narcotic addict seeking treatment needs medical care only? Quite often, medical care can do nothing for the addict. That is not the cause of his being a narcotic addict. He often suffers from poor personal adjustment, poor work prospects, the weight and disadvantage of having a criminal record, the need for companionship outside his peer group of addicts, and so on. 
What makes it vital for this Commission to look at social welfare - this is why I find its whole philosophy, attitude and recommendations so refreshing and why I compliment the Minister for embracing them - is that we do live in a period of change. There are very few Australians - unfortunately, too few Australians - who believe that we are living in a period when all of our structures and our social institutions are undergoing enormous pressures. The family unit, the marriage unit and the religious structures are quite different from what they were just one generation ago. The family unit as it exists today in the nuclear age is hardy recognisable from that unit which existed one generation ago. 
My philosophy is that, if we want to maintain those standards, if we do believe that the family unit is something worth preserving in a country that wishes to have some sort of social stability, we must not lower the standards; but, for goodness sake, we must change our attitudes on how to cope with them and on how to maintain the family standard with all the erosions of it that are occurring all the time. 
The Minister referred to the social costs of social welfare. He mentioned the obvious ones that everybody recognises and which I liken to the bushfires or the brushfires that suddenly flame up and we send the fire brigade to put them out. I refer to social costs like delinquency, like bashings which are now so prevalent in Melbourne and like alcoholism* which causes road accidents. I mention also drug addiction. 
What happens with respect to alcoholism is a typical example. We say: Tut, tut', when we see a human being in a crumpled heap in a gutter with a disused Army greatcoat around him. But we do not seem to give a damn about the 200,000 Australians who, according to recent statistics, have a heavy drinking problem, and who are not found in such conditions but who go on as so called respectable citizens with a problem which they cannot handle. Those are the brush fires which are obvious and to which the Minister referred. The Minister, to his credit, also recognised the not-so-obvious ones which cause equal damage and equal social cost, such as broken homes, the defects in the education system to which I have very quickly referred, mental breakdowns, the feeling of persecution of minority groups and the generation gap - a term which I hate but which I use because my time has almost expired. Those things in fact cause delinquency, alcoholism, bashings and drug addiction. It is these kinds of things to which the Commission is directing its attention. 
Let me conclude by making 2 suggestions as to the sorts of areas at which  1  hope the Commission and the Minister will look. These are not things that win votes. They are not the brush fires. They are things underneath. The French have a system, as I understand it, described as l'ecole des parents the school for parents. It is based on the philosophy that for most of the things we do in life we are educated to a high pitch, particularly in this age of specialisation; but for the thing which is probably the most important thing with which a human being is entrusted, namely raising children, there is virtually no training and no education except that which may or may not be passed on by parents. The French have accepted this principle. The bricks and mortar in school buildings are there in abundance. I have proved, with a pilot scheme in my own electorate, that once this sort of scheme is offered to parents they will flock to it. One thing parents want is communication with other human beings, other parents, who have similar problems to their own. It is by this joint discussion that they can be helped. 
My other suggestion is that the Commission might give some consideration to adult education. I know that the Government of which I was a member gave funds to it and I know that this Government has; but are people using adult education enough? Is it enough simply for a government to say: 'Yes, we are for adult education. Here is X million dollars for it'? I believe not. I believe that we should get out and evangelise. Let me give an example. I refer again to the horrid term 'generation gap'. I believe it is a fact that most teenagers in Australia today have a better education than their parents. It does not mean they are smarter; but I believe that the system of education has improved, affluence has increased and kids today are better educated than their parents. I also believe that the kids know it and their parents know it, even subconsciously. In family dialogue this has 2 results: The child feels superior and is therefore patronising and the parents feel inferior and are therefore aggressive. They are the complete ingredients for tension, breakdown and lack of communication. I believe that adult education would be one means of partially overcoming that problem. I repeat, at the risk of being tedious, that I have the highest compliment for the Chair man and members of the Commission and for the Minister on a very worthy and significant contribution to this Parliament. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has strong religious and strong moral principles. I respect him for holding those principles. I do not respect him - in fact I hold him in contempt - for his earlier statement that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and I are wasting the time of this House by introducing for discussion a subject which, to quote the Minister, is of no importance. The Minister on the one hand professes to be a moral man and a religious man. Yet he says that a problem which is causing 200,000 human beings to be conceived unwanted in Australia each year is not a problem of consequence for discussion in this House of Parliament. The Minister professes some concern about the human race. If he could do a little arithmetic, he would know that if that figure which was put out on 8 September in the 'Medical Journal of Australia, a reputable journal, is divided by 365,  Lt  means that this very day 550 human beings will be conceived all of whom will be unwanted and unplanned. Yet the honourable gentleman suggests that this is a matter of no importance and that the honourable member for Casey and I are wasting the time of the House in discussing it. 
Out of friendship to the honourable gentleman - I do keep him as a friend - who allows religious and moral principles to be paramount to such an extent that he is prepared to impact his principles on everybody else in the nation, I remind him of the words of Santayana. Santayana once described a fanatic as a person who redoubles his efforts long after he has forgotten his aims. Therefore, I turn to this question which is, I believe - and I speak as a liberal - concerned with a problem that is affecting human beings because 550 human beings who are unplanned and some unwanted will be conceived in the next 24 hours in this country. 
I am coming to that. The honourable gentleman can speak of his own experience with authority; but he speaks only for himself. There are 3 categories in this area of unplanned children. As the honourable member for Casey said, the majority of unplanned children are born to parents who are either poor or young. I will detail the 3 categories of unplanned children. First, some are loved. As the honourable member for Banks interjected, some of the happiest accidents in the world are unplanned children born to loving parents. But we should not delude ourselves on that point because the other 2 categories must be considered. I refer, secondly to those children who are unplanned and unloved and are allowed to grow up in a home without care, affection and love. The other category to be considered is that of children who are unplanned and in fact are aborted. With respect to the last 2 categories in many cases the same results ensue - unhappiness, remorse and regret. 
I think one of the most unfair things that has been said in this Parliament for some time was said today by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and his seconder, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, that the honourable member for Casey and I have simply moved this motion as a subterfuge to bring about abortion on demand. I remind those 2 gentlemen that both the honourable member for Casey and myself voted in this Parliament some months ago against the Bill which would have provided for abortion on demand. At the same time we asked for more facts on that matter. I have said in this House before, and I repeat, that for several reasons I am against abortion on demand. I do not know enough about it. I am in favour of abortion law reform in some respects. However, I do not know in what respects. That is why, as a member of this Parliament, I wish to inform myself by obtaining more facts. That is the only reason for this motion before the House. There is no subterfuge. It is a genuine wish on behalf of the honourable member for Casey and myself and, I hope, the majority of this House, to inform ourselves with facts about this tremendous personal problem. Some snide reference was made again by the honourable member for Wannon and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation that the motion before the House is the fourth draft of our proposal. 
I am not ashamed of that. Am I to be intractable in trying to get a motion passed by this House? Is there something to be ashamed about in changing one's mind. I have had discussions with the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  and other honourable members who came to me trying to draft a motion that would still be effective and would be acceptable to the majority of the members of this House. I do not resile from that position at ail. If another 24 amendments are put to me which do not destroy the thrust of getting the facts I would accept them too, notwithstanding criticisms from honourable members such as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  I will stand against those criticisms or any other criticisms that the honourable member has to make at any time. 
That is another confession which the honourable member has made in this House. The 200,000 unwanted pregnancies a year in Australia occur despite the widespread use of the pill and other contraceptives. Therefore, I believe that some inquiry should be made so that more facts can be obtained on this matter. 
I refer now to the amendment. Some aspects of it appeal to me and to my colleague, the honourable member for Casey, and we incorporated them in our own motion. But I should like to draw the attention of the House to 3 matters in particular and show the reasons why we cannot accept the amendment. 
We believe that the amendment would destroy any chance of obtaining facts as they should be presented. I am not suggesting that that is the intention of the amendment. But I am simply saying that it is my view that that would be the outcome. On the question of a royal commissioner, our motion clearly states that a Federal judge should be appointed as a sole commissioner in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Commissions Act. The amendment simply states that commissioners should be appointed to inquire into certain aspects. Honourable members will notice that the inquiry proposed by the amendment does not have the imprimatur of a royal commission or the tremendous advantages that the Royal Commissions Act gives to an inquiry by a royal commission. 
Who will be the commissioners? I have heard the Right to Life Association advocating that the commissioners should represent various religious, moral and legal points of view. What moral points of view? What religious points of view? One can see such a group of people being invited to express opinions or their own moral judgments on questions. The honourable member for Casey and myself do not want moral judgments to come out of this inquiry. We simply want facts. I cannot see what the moral or religious persuasion of a commissioner has to do with being equipped to sit on the commission. 
I should like also to look at the other aspects of the amendment. No mention is made of evaluating the effectiveness of contraceptive techniques. The honourable member for Wannon and his colleagues seek to remove that provision from our original motion. Why, I do not know. The information given by the honourable member for Casey showing the failure rate of so-called perfect contraceptives, is, I think, a matter that should give us some concern. Why that part of the motion was cut out I do not know. 
One of the most extraordinary paragraphs in the amendment is paragraph (a). The motion from the honourable member for Casey and myself states that the commission should inquire into: 
the extent and effectiveness of existing sex education programs . . . 
The amendment states: 
the extent and effectiveness of existing education programs in providing a sound basis in the fundamentals of inter-personal relationships in the Australian social environment. 
The word 'sex' has been deleted in the amendment in such a way as to lead one to suppose that those who are advocating that amendment suspect that it does not exist. The new amendment asks that the commission 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
That notice No. 1, General Business, be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
If this amendment is adopted the commission would have to inquire into the extent and effectiveness of existing education programs to provide a sound basis for inter-personal relationships in the Australian social environment. What does that mean? Does it mean the interpersonal relationships of mother and daughter, of sisters, of friends of members of this Parliament? The word sex' is not mentioned in the amendment. For an inquiry literally to carry out the purpose of this amendment it would take 100 years. It would never be completed even then. One wonders whether that is not the thrust of the new amendment, to ensure that any inquiry into these matters never reaches the light of day. I will now deal with clause (d) of our motion. I think this is vital. Why the amendment seeks to change clause (d) I do not know because I would have thought that the Right to Life people would have held a common view with us on this but the amendment seeks to change the words in clause (d). In our motion we say: 
In the event of failed contraception and consequent unplanned, unwanted pregnancies, 
We want the commision to inquire into-  the social, psychological and medical results of termination and failure to terminate such pregnancies ... 
In other words, what are the medical and what are the psychological effects on a woman who has had an abortion? Is not this important? The latest estimates of women aborted in Australia each year range from 70,000 to 120,000. It is against the law but they are still being aborted. Are we interested in human beings? Do we not want to find out the psychological and physical effects an abortion has on those people? But the amendment does not say that. The amendment to clause (d) says: 
In the event of concept1 is which are unplanned or unwanted- 
The commission is to inquire into - the social, economic, psychological and medical pressures on women in determining whether to proceed with the pregnancy or to have an abortion. 
There is no scope of power in this amendment for the commission to inquire into the effect of an abortion on women. I am confounded as to why that amendment has been moved because I would have thought that that is one thing with which we would have agreed. I am also puzzled in regard to the amendment to clause (e) of our motion. We want an inquiry into the provision, adequacy and viability of pregnancy support services, adoption services, counselling and other forms of assistance for families. Is not it important that once an unwanted, unplanned child is born the Government should have a responsibility for ensuring that that human life can be adopted into a good home? Is not that vital to the happiness of that human being? I would have thought that the opponents of abortion who demand that if a woman is pregnant she has that child have a great responsibility to ensure that once that unwanted child is born the utmost in adoptive facilities and counselling facilities should be provided to help that mother have that child adopted. But for some reason the amendment seeks to delete that provision in the motion. If the amendment is accepted then the commission of inquiry will have no power to inquire into that aspect either. 
I feel very strongly about this. I am influenced notwithstanding the way in which the honourable member for Casey rubbished the Wynns. I am concerned with what people say in regard to people who have an abortion, that the chance of danger to further children is increased. That concerns me. That is why I hesitate on proceeding with abortion law reform. That is why I want an inquiry that will bring a result that will be meaningful and not an inquiry that will go on for 100 years and not bring any result. I hope that today the House will grasp its nettle and give a decision on this. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
That the debate  be  now adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of my friend by paying a compliment to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and all members of his Committee. Too often do committees of this House do the kind of work that this Committee has done - as the honourable member said, members of his Party, the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party were on the Committee - and a report is brought down here virtually to an empty House. But this is where the real work of Parliament is done. On behalf of my Party I should like to pay a tribute on the floor of the House to the honourable member and the work that has been done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This is a cognate debate covering 3 Bills which are virtually Budget Bills - the Aged Persons Homes Bill, the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and the States Grants (Home Care) Bill - to which the Opposition has no objection. I will deal with them briefly in turn, firstly the Aged Persons Homes Bill. The Aged Persons Homes Act was introduced in 1954 to encourage nonprofit organisations to erect or purchase homes for the aged. Capital cost subsidies on a $1 for $1 basis were provided under the Act to religious, charitable or returned services organisations and other organisations approved by the Governor-General. In 1957 this was increased to $2 for every $1 of capital cost. In November 1967 local government organisations became eligible for this subsidy. 
The Aged Persons Homes Act was amended in 1969 to include personal care subsidies to approved homes for the aged. To receive the subsidy homes are required to provide meals and to employ sufficient staff to help residents in need of personal care. At least one member of the staff must remain on the premises at all times in case of an emergency. Initially the personal care subsidy was $5 a week for each resident aged 80 years and over. In 1972 it was increased to $10 a week for each resident aged 80 years and over. The Aged Persons Homes Bill presently before the House provides for an increase in the personal care subsidy of $2 a week from $10 a week to $12 a week for each resident deemed to be in need of personal care services. The eligibility agc limit previously prescribed under the Act of 80 years and over is to be amended to include all those in aged persons homes who require or who are receiving personal care attention. 
The proportion of residents 80 years and over in homes currently receiving the personal care subsidy is 45 per cent. The proportion of residents who will attract subsidy under the extended criteria is highly speculative, as I think the Minister  far  Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has admitted, but it is expected to rise by about half to aproximately 67i per cent. To determine which residents in an aged persons home do in fact require personal care services the present Government has incorporated classification procedures in the amending legislation. Homes will be required to make individual applications in respect of each hostel resident of under 80 years of age whom they consider to be in need of personal care attention, and registered geriatric or general nurses from the Department of Social Security will visit the homes at regular intervals to assist in classifying any of the borderline' cases. The Minister has indicated that 'the classifications will proceed on fairly liberal lines'. In fact, there have been some pronouncements by the Minister lately which have given us encouragement as to his liberality. Applications for personal care subsidies from aged persons homes in respect of residents under 80 years of age will be made every month. Visits to the homes by nurses attached to the Department of Social Security possibly will be made on a thrice yearly basis. Thus the existing amount of paper work in respect of residents 80 years of age and over in aged persons homes will be increased to include a monthly list of residents under 80 years of age considered by the homes to be eligible for personal care. Nurses from the Department of Social Security will be required on each visit to assess the condition of each resident on the list under 80 years of age and decide whether or not that resident is eligible for continued personal care and subsidy. However, despite this tendency to what might be considered to be bureaucracy, provisions in the Aged Persons Homes Bill for increased capital grants and extended terms of personal care subsidy may encourage - the Opposition hopes they will - organisations to provide further accommodation for the aged. I make a personal appeal to the Minister and to his senior departmental advisers in the House tonight not to let this personal inspection become a nightmare. I say that because bureaucracy can go mad. The Department of Social Security is notorious for its liberality in looking at cases. I hope that will continue. But if an army of trained nurses is to go out to these homes and check every borderline ca.se by some sort of slide rule method the thing could become a nightmare. I know that the Minister is conscious of that. 
I thank the Minister for his assurance. At the end of the 1971-72 financial year 45,000 persons were accommodated in homes provided with capital grants under the Act. Of that number 23,000 lived in selfcontained units and 17,000 in hostel-type accommodation and 5,000 in nursing accommodation. Those figures represent only a small proportion of the aged population of Australia. Of the 834,000 aged pensioners in 1972, 519,000 or 62 per cent lived in homes which they themselves owned. State housing authorities and unsubsidised hostels provided for a further 25,000 and approximately 40,000 were living in profit-making homes not subsidised under the Aged Persons Homes Act. It has been estimated that as many as 50,000 pensioners are living under unsatisfactory conditions. I was quoting from the statement made last year by my friend, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who I am sure would have loved to have spoken in this debate tonight. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I hope that your sympathy for him is as strong as mine. 
Thank you. Modern industrial society is geared to the concept that work is of vital importance. The aged can suffer from the limited opportunity to work and from the insecurity of becoming a useless member of society in economic terms. Non-employment of the aged results from the stereotyped attitudes of their inability to maintain efficiency. However, evidence has shown that the peak of creative production remains high in later years and that older workers have an attendance record as much as 20 per cent better than that of their younger counterparts. That evidence seems to fly in the face of philosophers such as Alvin Toffler who tells us that from the age of 16 years part of our minds and brains starts to deteriorate. Those of us who are over 16 years of age can take some comfort from the fact which I have just quoted from the New York Family Health Magazine of March 1970. 
My colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  stated in 1972 that older people too often believe that human activity which is not production oriented is not worthwhile; it should not surprise us that some old people who accept the conclusion that life's  only meaning is linked with being economically productive breakdown with apathy and boredom after retirement, and soon die. How true that statement is. I know that the Minister is sympathetic with the view that our present society is geared to the concept that is given us from the time we begin to think, namely, that we must create to justify our existence on earth. Thus, in addition to developing areas of support for the aged such as aged persons homes, it may be desirable to foster programs which would psychologically, as well as materially, support the aged, such as employment programs and classes for the encouragement of the arts and crafts. For instance, the Minister might be interested to know that in the United States elderly people are being employed in some areas as tutors for those falling behind in school. That may sound a wild idea. I know that the Minister has called for a further report on this question. I am sure he will agree that simply to create homes for the aged is not an answer in itself; one must go deeper than that. 
The secretary of the Australian Association of Gerontology,  Mrs Ruth  Inall, claims that the aged often have problems adjusting from work occupation to full-time leisure activity; most people reach retirement without being sufficiently equipped to cope with free time; and attention could be given to promoting education for a time. I hope that is a concept which the Minister and his Department have in mind. I am reminded of those immortal words which I think G. K. Chesterton once said, namely, that millions long for immortality but do not know how to occupy themselves on one rainy Sunday afternoon. The concept of retirement could be altered by encouraging a change of attitude in the community towards the aged. This could be done by a conscious effort to re-evaluate their roles. The arbitrary retirement age of 65 years could be reviewed and perhaps adapted in employment situations to meet the desires and capabilities of those approaching that age. There is often no reason why a worker should terminate employment when he is 65 and conversely a worker in a dull routine job would probably appreciate an earlier retirement scheme. But is such a person ready for retirement. To what does a worker retire? Does he retire from a job of boredom to a life of what? As the life span of more people in our community extends because of the growth in the knowledge of medical science, this aspect will become an increasing problem. The Bureau of Census and Statistics has projected a marginal increase in the proportion of the aged in the community to the year 2001. In 1972 those over 65 years of age comprised 8.3 per cent of the population. By the year 2001 this figure will increase to 8.5 per cent of the population if account is taken of existing immigration trends or 9.1 per cent if immigration is not considered. 
I turn briefly to the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill 1973. I commend the Minister for Social Security on a speech which contained a great deal of humanitarian content with which the Liberal Party and, I am sure, the Country Party would agree. In fact, it is consistent with the philosophical thrust of my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Perhaps he might appreciate a meals on wheels service, or something else, this evening. I know that many friends on the Government side, such as the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  would be delighted to deliver a meals on wheels service to the honourable member for Mackellar tonight. The Delivered Meals Subsidy Act was passed in 1970. It provided a subsidy of $1 tor each 10 delivered meals provided by approved meals on wheels organisations, including those run by local government bodies. The object of the legislation was 'to assist in the establishment, expansion, improvement and maintenance of the meals on wheels type of service'. 
In 1972 amending legislation increased the subsidy to $1.50 per 10 meals and provided an additional 5c per meal subsidy if the meal included approved types and quantities of fresh fruit, fresh juice or fresh tomato - that is,$2 per 10 meals if fruit or juice or tomato is part of each meal. These fruits and juices, as you would know in a flash,  Mr Speaker,  contain vitamin C. The Minister declined, in his usual reluctant fashion, to answer my interjection when he was speaking when I asked whether he had given consideration to including vitamin E for those people in this age group and, if not, why not. I have a table which has been provided to me by the Parliamentary Library setting out the expenditure by the government since 1969 to 1973 under this Act. I ask leave of the House to incorporate the table in Hansard. - 

<graphic href="085131197309255_68_0.jpg"></graphic>

 This Bill proposes to increase the subsidy rates to $2 per 10 meals, plus 50c per 10 meals where the fresh fruit or juice supplement is included - that is, $2.50 per 10 meals, an increase of 50c per 10 meals of either kind over the prevailing subsidy rates. The Bill also provides for the subsidy to be paid quarterly so as to assist organisations in their financial arrangements by avoiding problems caused by the present practice of annual payments. 
The organisational structure of meals on wheels services may well be a particularly fine example of government and voluntary aid combining to provide an effective and extensive social welfare benefit. In 1970, after various private and local government groups had proved the value of the service, the Liberal Government initiated the subsidy scheme which has enabled existing organisations to consolidate and expand their services, and has encouraged the establishment of new services. The results so far show an increase in the number of approved meals on wheels services from 191 in June 1970 to more than 350 in June 1973. Meals served and subsidies paid have increased substantially also. 
The value of a hot, cheap midday meal is very significant to large numbers of aged and partly disabled people who remain in their own homes. Growing immobility, forgetfulness and carelessness can cause a risk of malnutrition and lower the resistance of aged people to illness, as well as reducing their general wellbeing. The fresh fruit or juice subsidy aims to ensure a supply of Vitamin C, which may be destroyed in prepared heated meals. There is little we know about malnutrition amongst the aged. I will quote from a survey which was carried out by  Dr Sandra  Silink and  Dr Sylvia  Mobile of the Medical Department and Vitamin Laboratories, Roche Products Pty Ltd. They say: 
Malnutrition may be overt or subclinical requiring special tests for its detection. A further category, that of marginal nutrition, is one in which an episode of stress will cause rapid precipitation of oven clinical malnutrition. 
I compliment the Minister for recognising this fact in his second reading speech. In addition to its nutritional value the delivery of the meal represents an important daily social contact to many people.  Mrs E.  McCallum, who is a senior social worker of the City of South Melbourne, has been quoted as saying: 
In all our thinking about the meals on wheels services we are providing, we must not overlook the important role played by the person who actually takes the meal into the home. This person must feci a real concern and deep interest in the people she is seeing, as very often she may be their only regular contact with the outside world. 
She continues - and I invite the Minister and his advisers to note this: 
For this reason, in South Melbourne we keep detailed records of all our meals on wheels clients, the name of their doctor, next of kin or friend, and each deliverer of the meals is required to report buck to the Social Work Department if any of the people on her round are in trouble or fail to open the door. Even though we know that the food delivered is so important for physical well-being, the personal and regular contact which accompanies the meal is of almost equal importance. 
I do not think it is important only to the elderly person to whom the meal is being delivered. I think it is equally important in recruiting that type of person who delivers the meals on wheels to make them feel more involved with the clients in their visits. In other words, it takes them out of the category merely of being a delivery girl or a delivery lady if, without being busybodies, they can feel some form of involvement with the physical, psychological, mental and spiritual condition of the elderly person they are visiting. The Minister's second reading speech refers to a departmental survey to establish the gaps in meals on wheels coverage. Accurate figures on need are not available but in speaking in the debate on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill 1972 my colleague the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  suggested that 6 million delivered meals a year would be needed adequately to meet Australian needs. One would join with him in hoping that this target would be reached in the next year or two. 
The third Bill before the House is the States Grants Home Care Bill. Honourable members would know from the framing of this Bill that it is a States Grants Bill. Under this Bill money is granted by this Parliament to the States in a tied way. That is to say, the States must spend the money in a certain way. In this case it is on home care. It is an allied Bill and it has 3 main provisions. The first of the 3 provisions relates to the financial assistance provided by the Australian Government for home care service schemes. This is housekeeper and other domestic assistance which helps to keep aged people in their own community for as long as possible. The principal Act provides for State Government expenditure on such schemes to be shared by the Australian Government on a $1 for $1 basis. The amending Bill, this Bill we are now considering, enables this subsidy to be increased from one-half to two-thirds of State Government expenditure. I suggest to the Minister that instead of Si for Si that means $2 for $1. I wonder why he did not say that instead of going into these rather strange fractions. To ensure that the additional subsidy is used to expand home care services, however, and to ensure that the State's contribution is not reduced it will be a condition of the increased subsidy that the States own expenditure must not be reduced below its level in respect of the financial year 1972-73. The Opposition supports the increase and supports the concept that State Government expenditure must be maintained. 
The second provision of the States Grants Home Care Bill concerns senior citizens centres. The principal Act provides for the Australian Government to contribute up to one-third of the capital cost of such centres on a matching basis with State or local government expenditure. The amending Bill doubles the Australian Government's contribution to $2 for every $1 contributed by the State government or the local governing authority. Again the Opposition supports that portion of the Bill. I note one aspect of the Minister's speech on which I would hope subsequent speakers on both sides of the House will comment. It is an interesting contribution by the Minister. He said: 
I further noted that some such centres are being largely monopolised by particular aged persons groups, or treated as clubs and open to members only. To my mind this is quite wrong. All aged persons within the local area should be encouraged to feel that the centre is there for their use. 
The Minister hopes to do something about this. I absolutely agree with him. It is rather sad sometimes, as all members of this Parliament would know, to go into senior citizens centres and find the atmosphere there is a club atmosphere and cliquey to such an extent that an elderly person breezing in off the streets is regarded as a Johnny-come-lately and is not welcome. This is human nature. It is unfortunate and I wish the Minister luck in what he hopes to do. I cannot make a contribution as to what his answer on this might be but I thoroughly agree with his views on this and 1 share his concern. 
The third provision in the State Grants Home Care Bill concerns assistance towards the employment of welfare officers. Section 10 of the principal Act provides that where a person is employed as a welfare officer of a senior citizens centre wholly or mainly in connection with the provision of approved welfare services by or in association with the centre, the Australian Government may pay an amount equal to one-half of the welfare officer's salary. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
In order further to encourage and assist the provision of the welfare services to which I have previously referred the amending Bill increases the Australian Government's subsidy from one-half to two-thirds of the salary paid to appropriate welfare officers. 
Again I ask the Minister why could not he have said: 'Instead of $1 for $1 we now pay $2 for ST? The Opposition thoroughly supports this legislation but as I said in my speech in response to his statement on the welfare commission I do invite the Minister's Department to look at the employment of amateurs in this field. I am the first to admit that one of the great menaces of our society is the misguided humanitarian or the busy do-gooder - the persons who believe they have a monopoly of wisdom on any particular subject and intrude themselves. As an example I will speak of the honorary probationary service of the childrens' court in Victoria. The Government realised that there were not enough paid social workers or welfare officers to cope with delinquent children and it handpicked with meticulous care adult citizens to act in a capacity of honorary welfare officers. I have someone fairly close to me who is an cutstanding welfare officer. 
Female. 
 Very close. In fact she is one of the most outstanding women I have ever met. She happens to be my wife. This has worked with astonishing success in recruiting people who can make a contribution. It reduces cost and also has an involvement of people in the community towards community problems which, I know, is part of the philosophy of the Minister. 
Indeed, but I suggest that they still need advice from time to time from the professionals. I would ask the Minister to look at that point. 
In conclusion, the Minister says that he is unhappy about the fragmented arrangement whereby several departments each sponsor welfare programs. The Ministers referred specifically to the Department of Immigration, the Repatriation Department and Department of Social Security. Each give assistance in restricted or largely restricted ways which deprive the bulk of the community from the benefit of such services. I could not agree with the Minister more. We should have done something about this. Whether the Minister will be able to do it, whether he will be able to buck his colleague Ministers and the other departments with their compulsions of empire building, I do not know. I wish him luck in that exercise as well. The Opposition supports the 3 Bills. 
The Opposition supports these 2 Bills - the Sheltered Employment (Assistance)' Bill and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill.  Mr Speaker,  at the outset may I be permitted to raise a question of principle .in which I think you would be interested? These are Budget Bills. There is unanimity in the House about them, but the House will take probably 2 hours to debate them. Yet earlier this week and indeed today the Government had to gag matters of fundamental. importance. I can sympathise with the Government for wanting to do this, although 1 do not agree with it. But I wonder sometimes at the priorities we have in this House when we debate these matters on which everybody is in agreement, while debates on matters of great- national controversy are gagged and .Very, few honourable members can speak upon them. 
I can sympathise with honourable members who have a point of view to put on this tremendously important human problem of handicapped people. I am being led to believe that perhaps we could adopt the American system under which a member who has a contribution to make to a debate on a subject that is not controversial may have his speech read and approved by the Opposition and then obtain leave to incorporate that speech in Hansard. That is a new idea in this place. I know that the suggestion will outrage the traditionalists, but as a former Leader of the House I would have loved to allow this Parliament to become the national forum for debating highly important national issues, whilst not denying the right of an honourable member to make a contribution on an important matter like this one but which is not controversial as far as party politics are concerned. Even if we sit every week in the year, with the complexity of business that is now facing this national Parliament, with the obsession we have with passing Bills - which are necessary - we will spend most of our time debating Bills, some large and some small, and this place will not be the national forum for debate on important national issues that it should be. I invite the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and you,  Sir, as- Chairman  of the Standing Orders Committee, to contemplate that prospect. 
 The Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Bill provides that local government bodies can use borrowed money to attract subsidies for sheltered workshops, hostels or other residential units for the handicapped. It provides also that local government bodies can donate borrowed money to the approved organisations for approved purposes and that money will also be eligible for subsidy. It is hoped that these provisions will encourage further supply of facilities for the handicapped. No great immediate demand under these provisions is expected. A sum of $200,000 is set aside for the next financial year, 1973-1974. 
The Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill provides for extensions similar to those I have just outlined, but in addition provides for training centres, training equipment and residential units for handicapped children. It provides the means whereby local government bodies, by using borrowed money, will be able to help in meeting the need for these facilities. I think the outstanding feature of the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was his announcement that the Government intends to establish a national council ,for the handicapped. I have been one of those members on this side of the House who ha ve. been constantly critical of the number of boards, commissions, new departments and the growth of bureaucracy under the Labor Government. However, I strongly support the establishment of this council and would wish it. luck in its endeavours. 
To test ' the bona fides of my friend the Leader of - the House, I have some background notes to my - speech as Opposition spokesman on social security which I think would detain the House if I read them. They comprise one page. The Leader of the House has seen it. I ask leave for these background notes to be incorporated in Hansard. 
Background Notes: 
'Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act was introduced in 1967, and it is estimated that there are 175 approved workshops currently operating in Australia, employing about 7,500 people. Gross income for workshop production is estimated at $11. 6m for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
Under this Act, a subsidy ($2 for $1) is provided towards the capital cost of accommodation, rental of premises; extensions and equipment for sheltered works for the handicapped. 
In 1-970 a provision was introduced into the Act to provide subsidies of $1 for $1 for staff salaries over a wide range of activities, such as supervision, medical guidance, counselling and social work, a $500 training fee. -to be paid to sheltered workshops which had placed, people in permanent employment after at least 6 months training, and a $2 for $1 capital grant to organisations providing accommodation for handicapped people engaged in open employment. 

<graphic href="085131197309270_82_3.jpg"></graphic>

Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act: was introduced in 1970 and provided for subsidies of $2 for $1 to be paid to eligible organisations towards the capital cost of premises to be used for the training of handicapped children; the cost of equipment to be used for or in connection with such training; and the capita] cost of residential accommodation for handicapped children receiving training. 
As at 30 June 1973, more than 12,000 children were attending handicapped children's training centres subsidised under the Handicapped . Children (Assistance) Act, an inc. ease of about 1,000 during the financial year. 
I thank the House. The Bill recognises the need to encourage further provision of facilities for handicapped children and workers. The numbers receiving benefit under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act are approximately 7,500 and 12,000 respectively - a small proportion df the total handicapped population. The Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in Australia of May 1971 noted the absence of accurate data on the numbers of handicapped people', in Australia. Invalid pensioners apparently number 150,000. Estimates suggest that between 1, per cent and 2 per cent of our population, that. is,, between 120,000 and 240,000 human beings, .may be mentally retarded. An estimate by ,the Department of Social Services of 1971 put the number of handicapped children between the ages of 0 and 20 years in Australia at a minimum of 44,000. Therefore we are dealing, with a situation which recognises a great .number of human beings in our community who are handicapped either physically or mentally. Obviously there is a need for greater expansion of facilities for the handicapped, as' provided for in these Bills. The Minister's second reading speech recognises the haphazard distribution of workshops, a fact recognised in the Senate report to which I referred previously. It stated: 
The Association of Sheltered Workshops of New South Wales submitted that little consideration had been given in the past to the geographical  location of workshops. In a number of cases small workshops catering for one particular type of disability had. been set up in close proximity, without full assessment' 'df the likely future requirements in that area. Also, in the case of country establishments, consideration should be given to providing regional centres rather than small units in individual towns. 
The Committee agrees with this logic and considers that the planning of future workshops should be on a regional basis and a matter for discussion between the interested voluntary organisation and authorities responsible for planning of community health services. 
The problems of workshop distribution may require more supervision and selective encouragement than is presently provided for. Despite the current labour shortage - this is an aspect that concerns me deeply - employers appear hesitant in making use of handicapped workers. The 3 September 1973 issue of the Victorian Employers Federation report states that last year 11,000 disabled people were registered in Victoria as wanting employment but only 4,800 were placed. Placement figures for 1970 were 1,100; 1971, 2,200; and 1972, 4,800. The report continues: 
There appear two main sources of employer objection to the employment of these ' people. Firstly fears have existed that employing disabled persons would jeopardise employment opportunities for others. Consequently, employers fear that involvement could cause disputes with unions^ 1 am one member who has been as critical as anyone in this House of trade unions, but I would dispute the point that any responsible trade union would register any kind of. protest against employers employing handicapped people. I feel that this is an imaginary fear that employers have placed in their own minds. Surely discussion between employers and trade unions could result in a solution of this objection 
It also gives me no comfort to say that most State governments seem to be reluctant to give permanency to employees with disabilities. This is in contrast to the policy of the Commonwealth Government, which has passed legislation enabling disabled persons to gain permanency. Secondly, some employers fear the quality of the service they would receive from the disabled employee. But those associated with the employment of handicapped people would strongly and immediately refute this objection. They maintain that employees with restricted abilities are. extremely loyal, efficient and conscientious people. This they attribute to the fact that such a person values his position and is therefore prepared to work hard and honestly to ensure that he is retained. Also his special advantage is that generally he is less accident prone than his fully able counterpart due to his greater awareness of the need to be safety  conscious. The Commonwealth Government currently maintains about 150,000 people on invalid pensions, many of whom are employable assets. The report of the Victorian Employers Federation continues: 
Certainly, if this situation could be improved, then it would mean, not only a reduction in the Government's social welfare commitment, but greater production and higher productivity. 
I conclude with one comment on the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. I ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  or the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is now representing the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to convey my remarks to the Minister. The Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill makes no provision comparable with the provision already in the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act providing for a subsidy for salaries of professional counselling and medical staff in workshops. I wonder why there is the distinction. I think this is something that the Minister could ask his Department to examine. There seems to be no reason for the distinction and why subsidies on salaries of counselling staff should be provided for elderly people and not for handicapped children. It would seem that younger children would be more amenable to and just as much in need of professional care as handicapped adults. I should be glad if the Department would look at that question. The Opposition wholeheartedly supports the 2 Bills. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lamb)  adjourned. 
I have not been misrepresented,  Mr Speaker.  I have been represented in an unfair way and I seek the indulgence of the House for about 20 seconds. It is true that I was opening what I thought was a private exhibition of a painter from Romania. I was paying a tribute to this man for the way he had involved himself in the community and suggested that more Australians should do the same as he had done. I have formed a close relationship with this gentleman who happens to live in Blackburn. One of my best friends who was standing next to me happens to live in Malvern so facetiously I mentioned Blackburn, knowing the painter came from there, and Malvern, whence my best friend comes, not knowing that any representatives of the Press were present. In fact I suspect that no members of the Press were there but that a certain friendly ferret reported it to the newspapers. I withdraw any suggestion of insult to the good people of Blackburn or Malvern. 
I must confess to the House that I am bewildered. I understood that there were two Bills before the House for debate, namely, the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Bill and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. They are both listed on the notice paper and are bracketed on the blue sheet as being the subject of a cognate debate. The normal practice after the order of the day to be debated is read by the  Clerk  is for the question to be put by you,  Mr Speaker,  and then for the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to ask whether it suits the convenience of the House to have a cognate debate. I was waiting for the Leader of the House to do that before rising in my place. May I proceed to make a speech on both Bills,  Mr Speaker? 
The Opposition supports this Bill, although I understand that the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  will move an amendment, which we will not push to a division. The thrust of his proposed amendments is that the Opposition wishes to sound some warning signals to the Government in this undertaking and the Opposition wants them recorded. I think the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  would be the first to agree that in asking the Parliament to pass this Bill he is asking it to take him and his Commission on trust. He made what I called an excellent statement to this House on 30 August when he tabled the report of the Interim Commission on Social Welfare together with the Australian Assistance Plan. The report was full of philosophy; the assistance plan was full of ideas, many of which were untested. At the time I commended the Minister and the Commission for both the philosophy and the suggested ideas in the plan. 
This Bill is to establish a social welfare commission. In other words it is to make legal, the body that is now functioning. I want to raise a point here without being too critical, although my friend the honourable member for Indi will pursue this point. The Commission has been functioning for some months now, virtually without the authority of Parliament, as has that other child of the Minister, the Health Commission. This has been done simply by creating an Interim Committee and by hypothecating the sum of money out of the Treasury to pay the wages, stationery and telephone bills in the meantime. I think it would be irresponsible of me as the Opposition's spokesman if I did not point out to the Minister and to the Government the dangers in this procedure. 
In this particular matter I can fully understand that to get the scheme rolling the Interim Committee had to be formed and money had to be hypothecated to it, but it is a dangerous procedure when this sort of thing is done. The Social Welfare Commission is working, people are being paid salaries, letterheads are printed and letters are being written for an institution which purports to be a statutory corporation when the Parliament has not yet authorised its establishment. For all the Minister knows, such a concept might well be refused in the Senate where the Government does not have the numbers. I do not want to labour the point; I just raise it at this stage. 
This Bill to establish the Commission is one of a number of Bills before the Parliament seeking to establish commissions in such areas as education, tariff making and aspects of trade practices. The Interim Committee of the National Social Welfare Commission was appointed on 3 April 1973. Since that time a specific number of matters has been referred to it by the Minister, including the Australian Assistance Plan, the Aged Persons Homes Act, the home care program, the Senate Standing Committee's report on mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia, emergency relief and multi-purpose welfare centres. The general functions of the Commission, as set out in clause 14 of the Bill, are substantially the same as the Interim Committee's reference. Therefore my remarks today will be relatively brief because I made a fairly long speech on 30 August in reply to the Minister's statement when he tabled the report. There seems to be little point in repeating that today. 
I would like to make a few remarks, though, on the Australian Assistance Plan. One of the first tasks of the Commission is to be midwife - to use the Minister's expression - to the Australian Assistance Plan. The plan has as its stated aim 'to assist in the development, at a regional level within a nationally co-ordinated framework, of integrated patterns of welfare services, complementary to income support programs and welfare - related aspects of health, education, housing, employment, migration and other social policies.' In doing this, account should be taken amongst other things of the existing responsibilities of State and local governments and voluntary agencies, as well as the Australian Government. The Opposition supports this Bill and the philosophy behind it but it is taking the Government on trust and taking the Minister at his word - the words he used in the statement he made to the House on 30 August and in his second reading speech. There is an inbuilt guarantee by the Minister that State governments will not be bypassed, that some autonomy will be vested in the regional councils. The last thing the Minister or the Government would want would be for these detailed decisions in this matter to be made in Canberra or to be centralised in any way! 
Regional councils for social development are regarded as an integral part of regional planning. It is recognised that these councils will vary from State to State according to any differences which may exist. That is quite proper. Of course, social conditions and prob- lems applicable to Redfern would be quite different from the social problems applicable to Gosford. To take a Victorian example, the problems of Collingwood or Carlton would be quite different from the social problems of Wangaratta. As I mentioned in my speech on 30 August, if one wants to assist in the social development of youth and young people, say, in Gosford or Wangaratta one would tend to build football arenas and other sporting facilities. To cope with different kinds of social problems in places such as Carlton and Redfern one might not be persuaded to build such things as football grounds and gymnasiums. There is a different solution to different sets of problems. Therefore the Opposition agrees that the responsibilities of different regional councils would vary. 
It is also recognised that the suggested composition of these councils - involving representatives of the Australian, State and local governments, trade unions, employer groups, welfare consumer groups and non-government bodies concerned with social welfare - rests on an untried assumption, and more needs to be known about what might be a desirable composition. Evaluation of the appropriate population level for the planning and provision of welfare services will be necessary. This will affect notions of the definition of a region. The Minister was vague - I do not blame him for that - about where the regions will be, who will be on the councils and how they will be formed. I presume he will be waiting for reports and recommendations of the Commission on these matters. The Bill provides that the Commission must make an annual report and that annual report must be tabled in this Parliament by the Minister. I make another plea, that when such a report involving the lives of millions of Australians is put down here, adequate debate will be allowed on such matters rather than wasting hours debating peripheral things. Sometimes one wonders if the cause of the nation is advanced by some of the long, tedious, repetitious debates that occur from time to time. 
As yet the Australian Assistance Plan is still at the ideas stage. In addressing a recent welfare conference in Melbourne the Minister made the following observations: 
Obviously we need more information. We don't want a situation in which too many of our skilled and committed people are conducting surveys and testing models. 
Let me make a mild tilt at the Labor Government. So many commissions, authorities and boards have been created since the Australian Labor Party won government on 2 December last - I think the last count was 63 new boards, departments and commissions - that it must be fresh out of people to form any new ones. The Minister went on to say: 
Nor do we want to see a situation in which welfare agencies proliferate and are nationally organised in such a way that there are too many incentives for empire building, demarcation and territorial disputes, and, amongst the personnel, for self-maintenance and career improvement at the possible expense of the rights of the people the system is supposed to be helping. 
I thoroughly commend the Minister for saying that and I support him in saying that. 
It seems that the Minister is well aware of the definition which has been put forward of the 'typical' poor New York family. It has been defined as a man, a woman purporting to be his wife, 1.27 children, plus 2 social workers. The Minister went on to say that he suspected 'that an over-complex system is worse than an unintegrated system'. Whilst substantive comment on the Australian Assistance Plan must await more concrete proposals it is possible to examine the broad outlines of the workings of a regional council. There is a heavy emphasis on liaison. Theoretically, a council will have to work in liaison with the Australian Department of Social Security or the State offices of it and up to 13 other Australian Government departments, such as Aboriginal Affairs, Attorney-Generals', Capital Territory, Education, Environment and Conservation, Health, Housing, Immigration, Labour, Northern Territory, Repatriation, Tourism and Recreation and Urban and Regional Development; the State Government in its various departments concerned with welfare services; local governments - there are 900 of them; the Australian Council of Social Services and the State Council of Social Services; various planning boards in existence and to be set up; and local bodies and charities concerned with welfare services. It is a mindboggling list of the number of bodies with which these regional councils have to work in liaison. Sometimes my sympathies go out to my friend the Minister for the Environment  (Dr Cass),  who is trying to implement his philosophies on the environment around the nation and is frustrated by having to deal with so many other people and finds himself impotent - in a political sense, I assure him - in being able to carry out these policies. 
Any concept based on population distribution as a basis for regionalisation will result in councils which will benefit from this scheme being mainly those in the metropolitan cities. The dominance of the State capitals is shown by the following figures, of which I think very few Australians, particularly parliamentarians, can be proud: In South Australia 68.9 per cent of the people live in Adelaide; in Victoria 68.2 per cent of the population lives in Melbourne; in Western Australia 62.1 per cent of the population lives in Perth; in New South Wales 59 per cent lives in Sydney; in Queensland 44.7 per cent of the people live in Brisbane; and in Tasmania 33.3 per cent lives in Hobart. The distribution of the population outside the metropolitan areas is of crucial importance in the setting up of regional councils. Some indication of this distribution is given in a table which I would like to incorporate in Hansard. I apologise to the Minister for not showing it to him. It is a short one. Its source is "The World's Most Urbanised Country' by K. W. Robinson published by Hemisphere in September 1973. It again highlights this terrifying way in which population in Australia- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is the honourable member seeking leave to incorporate it in Hansard? 
Yes. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question concerning his action in calling for tenders for 13 million registration cards in anticipation of his National Health Bill being passed by this Parliament. He will have read in the Press, as I did, the statement of the Australian Country Party's spokesman on social welfare that his Party will oppose the Bill. The Minister will not be surprised when I tell him that the Liberal Party is resolutely and unequivocally opposed to his Bill as foreshadowed by him. In view of the not unlikely situation of the Bill being defeated in the Parliament, will he delay the action of calling tenders until this Parliament decides the issue, and not treat this Parliament with contempt? 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question concerning a report in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 22 October relating to a reserve health plan if this Parliament rejects the Government's national health insurance legislation. That mysterious body Federal Government sources' was quoted to have said that an alternative scheme would not need legislative approval and would operate through grants to the States. Can the Minister give the House an assurance that in the event of the national Parliament rejecting his health scheme he will not resort to surreptitious moves through grants under section 96 of the Constitution and implement for the nation a scheme which the national Parliament has rejected. 
The Opposition accepts this amendment because it is virtually the amendment first mooted by the Opposition put into slightly different language by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham). 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
I .thank the House for its courtesy in allowing me to be virtually the one responding to this Bill on behalf of the Opposition. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  knows, there was another Bill before this one which suddenly was taken off the notice paper. I was happily in my office thinking that this Bill would come on in an hour and suddenly it was brought on. My friend, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  replied first on behalf of the Opposition and I thank him for that. 
I should like to compliment the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  on the latter part of his speech, with which I entirely agree. I should like to say to him that it is a matter of some regret when a first class speech like the one he made is spoiled by the attempt at politicking which he made at the beginning. I suggest to the honourable member that there are very few people in this place who indulge in cheap politicking who score any points at all. Such persons finally discover that their efforts at making cheap political points are counter-productive and react against themselves. I refer to his tilt at the Opposition about its proposed amendment to which I will refer in a moment. The Opposition completely supports this Bill and commends the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  for introducing it in the form in which he has. It follows the philosophical thrust which my Party and the Country Party were following in the latter part of last year. We thoroughly agree with the purpose, to use the Minister's words, 'of getting away from the concept of tow-away medicine when dealing with mental disease and its allies'. 
The Bill provides assistance to the States, local governing bodies and voluntary organisations in providing medical or other services or facilities for or in relation to the prevention or diagnosis of, or the treatment or the rehabilitation of, persons suffering from mental illness, mental disability, alcoholism or drug dependence. Included is the acquisition of land or the construction, extension, alteration or renovation of a building for use in providing the above services and the maintenance of a building used in the provision of such services. The sum of $7.5m is allocated for each of the years 1973-74 and 1974-75. Where a payment or an advance is made to a voluntary organisation as distinct from a local governing body, it is conditional upon the State concerned making a similar payment or advance. This, as I understand it, means that if the Minister, as he sees fit to use the terms of the Bill, receives a request from a voluntary organisation in a State, he cannot give money to that voluntary organisation unless that request is accompanied by an undertaking from the State Government concerned that it will match that grant dollar for dollar. There is no such provision for the payment of money to a local government. Apparently, as I read the Bill, the Minister has a discretion to give a grant direct to a local government organisation. 
The Bill is intended to replace the States Grant (Mental Health Institutions) Act which expired on 30 June 1973. The new facilities provided for will include non-residential and hostel facilities for prevention, out-patient treatment, training and rehabilitation. The Bill reflects the fact that community health care is often more effective than institutional care. For the purposes of those people who listen to this debate, I will put the matter in context by quoting very briefly from the second reading speech of the Minister in which he said: 
Persons suffering from psychiatric and similar problems return to coping normally much more quickly when treated in their usual community environment, with their families and friends around them. 
He continued later:  - We shall be shifting the emphasis away from socalled 'tow-away medicine'. 
There will be:   . . an expansion of hostel and half-way house accommodation for persons with chronic mental problems or social handicaps who need residential care but not the most costly care of mental and general hospitals and nursing homes. The addition of communitybased services for alcoholism and drug dependence along with our new emphasis on other aspects of community mental health is a vital step forward in combating those serious community problems in a systematic way. 
With that philosophy the Opposition completely agrees. Hopefully, we are now moving away from the prehistoric age concept where someone who was mentally ill or suffering from a disease or a sickness such as alcoholism or drug dependency had to be locked up away from the community, where a stigma was cast on the family if a member of that family was an alcoholic or mentally ill, whether that person acquired that mental illness or was bom with it. This Bill reflects that growth in community trends. We commend the Government for implementing what this legislation proposes. 
Some points have been made by my friend from Darling Downs. The need exists for co-ordination among the States with the Commonwealth on the expenditure of this money. The sum of S7.5m a year for 2 years is not a lot of money and therefore it would need to be spent wisely and well. I compliment the Minister for Health for virtually accepting an amendment that I foreshadowed to him earlier this morning. May I make the point away from a discussion of this Bill for the moment that I believe this is the way in which this Parliament should function and that it would function much better if this sort of cooperation did take place. When I was on the other side of the House I constantly appealed to the Opposition that, if it sought to submit amendments, it should submit them to the Government beforehand so that the Minister responsible, in consultation with his Department, could consider them and, if he thought there was merit in them, accept them. This type of co-operation obviates the need for acrimonious debate and politicking of the type to which I referred before. 
The reason that I will move the amendment which the Minister has virtually accepted, although he has redrafted it to put it into his own language - I am happy for him to move it in his name rather than for me to move it in my name - is not as the honourable member for Casey suggested to upgrade or to downgrade local government. In its present terms, the Bill simply says this: The Minister, as he sees fit, may make a grant for certain purposes. Now, before an application for a grant by a voluntary organisation, say the Buoyancy Foundation in Melbourne or some group like that, comes to the Minister, that application must first go to the State Government health department or to the responsible Minister before it comes to the Federal Minister for Health. The State Minister looks at the application and, if he thinks fit, will say: 'Yes, we will give you dollar for dollar if the Commonwealth Government comes forward with the grant'. So, there is consultation on applications from voluntary organisations. But the Bill, as originally drafted, made no such provision for consultation from local councils. 
I know that it was your point. We believe that there should be consultation. Only $7 .5m is involved, lt may well toe, to take Victoria as an example, that municipality A may make an application to the Minister for a grant for an alcoholism dependence unit; municipality B right next door may make another application to the Minister for an alcoholism dependence unit; and municipality C adjoining the other 2 municipalities also may seek a grant for the same purpose. The Minister in Canberra is not and cannot be expected to be aware of the close proximity or the local features of these applications. I would have thought that it was common sense for the State Minister for Health in the State concerned to say: 'Look, just a moment. You have 2 alcoholism dependence units already in that area of the State. Have some consultation on this matter'. The alternative is for the Federal Minister for Health to develop an enormous bureaucracy which will inquire into every application from a local government body. I am sure that that is not the wish of the Minister or of his Department. The Department has much more important things to do than that. My amendment sought simply to expedite the process. My amendment did not mean that the Federal Minister for Health must necessarily take any notice of any objections that a State Minister might make. It simply proposed that before an application came to the Federal Minister for Health at least it would be sifted and the views of the State Minister for Health or the appropriate Minister would be obtained. 
That seems to me to be common sense and not a point on which to try to make some capital. 
If I have not made my point to the honourable member, I must apologise to him. I would have thought that I hove expressed a commonsense point of view in the simplest language of which I am capable. I made it perfectly clear in what I said that I was not suggesting that the Federal Minister for Health should allow an application from a local government body to be vetoed by a State Minister for Health. My ministerial experience indicates that in some States a State Minister for Health may want to build his own empire, his own mental asylums and institutions. The whole thrust of this Bill is in the other direction. I completely support a Minister overriding a State Minister for Health who might say: 'Do not give it to that local council. Do not give it to that voluntary organisation. Give it to us and we will build a bigger, brighter home for the mentally ill.' I know that in some States that kind of empire building goes on. 
I will not name States but I will not necessarily disagree with what the honourable gentleman says. Therefore, the Opposition believes that this question of mental illness is something that impacts itself upon human beings and upon families. It is one of the greatest tragedies that can impact itself upon families. The other matters which the Bill covers concerning self-inflicted illnesses that have a result in mental disturbance - alcohol and other drugs - are equally as important if not more tragic. It seems to me ironic that here we are spending $ 15m in 2 years to cover, amongst other things, an illness created by the greatest killer drug of addiction known to man - alcohol. I do not think that the Minister for Health would disagree with that. The World Health Organisation rates alcohol as the fourth largest medical problem in the world, and a White Paper of the British Parliament rates alcohol as the third largest killer of mankind. That does not measure the amount of agony and anguish that alcoholism causes to human beings who suffer from it, and their families. 
We are spending some part of $15m in curing that problem in Australia. It seems ironic to me that we still allow that drug, the greatest killer drug of addiction known to man, to be advertised on television, on radio and in the newspapers. Maybe we will reach a stage of sanity some day where we can recognise the irony and the insanity of allowing the third greatest killer of man to be advertised freely so that young people might be induced or seduced to consume it. I suppose we move slowly. Social change is slow. We will be stuck with advertising of alcohol for some time. 
One point I want to make now is that some liquor companies - some sellers or manufacturers of alcohol - are abusing this doubtful privilege they have. Recently I heard on radio an advertisement for some beverage specifically designed for young people. It has a frightful taste. God knows its ingredients, but it bubbles. It is named after some festival which suggests fun, gaiety and so on. There is gay music in the background to the advertisement. The advertisement is pitched directly towards the teenage audience and it virtually says to teenagers: 'You cannot have a successful party unless you get turned on with this fantastic beverage'. I commend to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and the Minister for Health 2 companies which abuse that kind of privilege in acting in this way. In this place we talk about the road toll and we talk about the evils of alcoholism. The latest figures from the drug dependence clinic at St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne indicate that 250,000 Australian adults have a serious drinking problem. 
'The honourable member may mention names of companies. That is his privilege. I will name them at the appropriate time. If you permit it,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - I am quite sure that you will not - I will be delighted to bring my tape recorder into this House and play this advertisement for the benefit of honourable members. I believe that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  would be as disgusted and as enthusiastic about banning this sort of thing as I am. One in 20 adults are effected by a serious drinking problem. They have been defined by social scientists as people who cannot allow any day to go by without having the equivalent of 10 whiskies every day of their lives. That we permit this kind of advertising and this kind of seduction of the young is something that passes my comprehension. To me it reeks of a double standard when people of my generation allow that sort of thing without raising a pen in anger yet become outraged when some youngster somewhere is caught having one marihuana cigarette. I am not condoning that, but it seems to me to reek of double standards. 
May I briefly mention the question of drug dependence. Too often when we talk about drugs people of my generation immediately think of long-haired young people in T shirts and jeans. We think that the young people have a monopoly on drug addiction. The point is that people of my generation are the drug addicts. We consume the killer drugs of addiction - tobacco and alcohol - far more than the young consume their drugs of addiction. If it is not those, it is analgesics, bro.mureides and barbiturates which Australians pop into their mouths at a terrifying rate to pick them up or put them down. Having said that, hopefully to put it into its proper context may I mention briefly drug dependence. It is not strictly within the terms of this Bill although it certainly impinges upon it. I commend the Minister for enlarging the concept of the Bill to include drug dependence. I have stated that drug addiction is the greatest potential social evil of our time, and I do not resile from that statement. 
I share the views of the honourable member for Darling Downs about drug pushers. The drug pusher who is not a user is an evil person who deserves no mercy. As I have said before in this House, the light sentences given to nonuser pushers by the courts pass my comprehension. This is not the cause of the drug problem. The drug pusher does not create drug addicts. He is the vehicle who happens to be there in his miserable dark corner of the capital city, peddling this garbage to hooked young people. The causes of the drug problem go far deeper into the ills of society, and the quicker we realise that the better. But on the question of addiction may I commend to the Minister, and invite him to respond to me in his reply, this aspect: As he knows, late last year as Minister for Customs and Excise I visited the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other parts of Europe to study the methods being employed in those countries to contain the spread of drug abuse. I came back and reported that the policing or the law enforcement technique as practised in the United States particularly had failed, and failed miserably, and in fact was compounding the problem rather than solving it. I commend to my Government the system now in use in the United Kingdom, where drug addiction is regarded as an illness rather than as a crime. If a person who is addicted to one of the addictive drugs reports to a clinic and is accepted as a drug addict he has his drugs prescribed for him at Government expense by the clinician he visits. 
I came back and reported to my Government that as far as I could see, although the system in the UK was not perfect, it certainly was making some contribution to containing the growth of drug addiction. Firstly it did not eliminate the street pusher, but it made massive inroads into his infamous business. If a drug addict can have supplied free pure heroin from his local pharmacy, prescribed under medically hygienic conditions, why would he want to walk the streets of Soho to pick up something the purity of which he has no way of testing? In some cases the drugs obtained from street pushers can be quite lethal. An addict going to a doctor in a clinic is at least under medical supervision and not shooting up in the most ghastly circumstances in unbelievable conditions in some crumby little attic with people who have the same unfortunate curse as he has. It seems to me that the United Kingdom system is a system that at least should be explored. 
When I came back I reported to my Government that it is dangerous to impact a system which works in the culture of one country straight on to another without investigating the possible basic problems involved. I recommended, and it was accepted by my Government, that a top level team consisting of Government advisers should visit the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe, particularly Holland and Denmark, with a view to studying this technique of treating drug addiction. One of the sad facts I learnt was the rate of recidivism of drug addicts even in the clinics in the United Kingdom. I went to one clinic in Kent which I believe is one of the best in the world. The superintendent told me - this is a strange thing for a superintendent of a clinic to say - that he had plenty of money, plenty of equipment, plenty of staff, plenty of everything. There was nothing in a mechanical way he wanted that he did not have, and yet in the 2 years in which he had been operating only 8 per cent of his patients had been cured. Ninety-two per cent of those who had gone through his hands had either committed suicide, taken an overdose of drugs or gone back to their addiction. 
Drug addiction is a curse which, once it inflicts itself on a community, in my experience is virtually impossible to eradicate. The Government is taking action in other ways through its Social Welfare Commission under the leadership of  Mrs Marie  Coleman, to look at the causes of drug addiction. This Bill concerns those who already have it. I would commend the Minister to look at the United Kingdom system and tell us when he responds whether the Government intends investigating the British system with a view to considering its application to Australia. On the understanding that in the Committee stage the Minister will move the amendment that I foreshadow I would resume my seat, saying that I commend the Bill, commend the Minister and pledge the support of the Opposition to this legislation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence and the indulgence of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to raise a point of procedure in relation to the White Paper on the Australian Health Insurance Program tabled by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  a moment or two ago. I have not been paid the courtesy of being furnished with a copy of that paper. I do not blame the Minister for that; he may just have received it. It seems to me rather strange that a document, one of the most important documents the Labor Administration has laid on the table of this House, should be simply tabled without the Minister tabling it making a statement which could be debated. As the White Paper relates to one of the most fundamental issues of the Labor platform I would have thought that the White Paper itself should be debated, as I understand that the substantive Bills following up the White Paper will not be coming before the House for a period of 3, 4 or 5 weeks. Will the Minister for Social Security or the Leader of the House give me an assurance that there will be a debate on this White Paper by members of the Parliament of all political persuasions within the next week or two? 
I seek leave to make a statement of approximately equal length to that made by the Minister for Social Security on the matter of over 1,000,000 persons not being covered by health insurance. 
I again raise a protest on behalf of the Opposition at the way in which I, as Opposition spokesman on health and social security, and all honourable members on this side of the Parliament are being forced to debate a document which is one of the most important documents that has been tabled in this Parliament in many years. I refer to the White Paper entitled 'The Australian Health Insurance Program' - a 71-page document written in first class English, with no waffle and well edited. The only opportunity that members on this side have of debating it is in a 10-minute speech on the estimates. That, I believe, borders on a parliamentary scandal. This White Paper, as has been said by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  contains virtually what will be in the Bills to be presented in two or three weeks time. I would have thought that the purpose of laying a White Paper on the table is to allow interested organisations to comment on it, to put their views forward through the elected members on both sides of the Parliament so that the Minister and his advisers can consider constructive criticisms when drafting the legislation. I regard the tabling of this White Paper as a farce. What concerns me about it is that it does little to allay the fears of those on the Opposition side of the chamber about the Government's proposed health scheme. Of course there is some sugar coating in it here and there. There are a few extra dollars for private hospitals and so on, but the fundamental thrust of the Australian Labor Party's health scheme remains in its naked form. 
Let me comment on one or two things. We had an argument this morning about whether 87 per cent of Australian people were covered by health insurance or whether 92 per cent were covered. That argument at this time is relatively unimportant, although the difference between the 2 percentages represents some hundreds of thousands of people. No matter what the figure is, for the sake of argument let us take the Opposition's figure and assume that 90 to 92 per cent of Australians are already covered voluntarily by health insurance by going into an insurance fund at their own option. The Government says: This is no good. We will disregard the wishes of 90 per cent of the population and we will force those people to pay insurance into a Government health fund through the taxation mechanism'. If the Government had argued that universal health cover is desirable and that the 8 per cent to 10 per cent who at present are not covered by health insurance should be covered in some way and had set about devising some means of getting that 8 per cent to 10 per cent into the scheme, that would have had my total support. But instead of looking at the 8 to 10 per cent, the Government is looking at the ones who have already, opted voluntarily for insurance and will add to their tax. 
I did not get that intelligent interjection. 
That is probably the most ridiculous interjection I have ever suffered the misfortune to hear in this House. I think the honourable gentleman would be better served if he stuck, to the Australian Capital Territory or whatever he is administering at the moment. There is a further implication of this compulsion. If a person is paying additional tax and that entitles him, allegedly free of means test, to go into a public hospital, human nature being what it is, there will be an enormously increased demand on the services of the public hospitals in this country, which are already overtaxed and at top utilisation. 
The honourable pugilistic gentleman interjects and says: 'Nonsense'. 
Maybe he would be better served in the pursuit he followed last week than in commenting on a health scheme. The figures as accepted by Drs Deeble and Scotton are that there are now 3.5 beds per 1,000 people in the Melbourne metropolitan area. A concession is made by the Government's advisers that on the implementation of its scheme there will need to be an additional 800 to 900 beds for public or standard ward patients. I ask .the Minister where the additional beds will be coming from in the initial stages. Is my information incorrect that an additional 800 to 900 public ward beds will be required in metropolitan Melbourne? If it is incorrect, let him say so. If it is correct, where will he get those beds? There is only one place he can get the beds and that is from the private hospital  sector 
He will destroy a system which has served this nation fantastically well for years. I can see the deal. The great private hospitals of Melbourne - the Mercy, the Saint Vincent's, the Freemasons and so on - will have this proposition put to them: 'We will give you X dollars. We will give you some incentive provided you give us half your beds for standard ward care'. That will be the carrot held out in front of them. A private hospital then will have half its beds public and half private. What happens to that private hospital then? It will lose all its character. Does the Minister intend to spend taxpayers' funds in equipping that private hospital with the extraordinarily sophisticated equipment that a public hospital must" have? If he is to do that, that is a waste of resources. If he does not do that, the standard of beds in private hospitals will be such as to cater only for people not requiring emergency treatment. Private hospitals will deteriorate into nursing homes and their whole character and the dedication of the people serving in them will be destroyed. 
I have touched on 2 subjects that arise from a 71 -page report and already 7 minutes out pf my 10 minutes have gone. The Minister states in the report that the Government scheme will be cheaper for three out of four families and seven out of 10 people. This is a half truth. If he is talking about the 1.35 per cent tax his figures may be correct. I have not checked them, but he can rest assured that I am having them checked. But what about the amount coming out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which originally under the Deeble-Scotton scheme was to be $1.25 for every $1 contributed by the public? I understand that the ratio is now to be $1.50 to $1. The contribution from the Consolidated Revenue Fund is increasing all the time. This is a hidden cost on every taxpayer. Who will pay it? 
The Labor Party says that it is for the underdog, the underprivileged. This scheme will work against the very people it is supposed to champion - the people on a low wage, who now can be admitted to one of the great public hospitals of this country - the Royal Melbourne, the Alfred and so on - without being subject to a means test and can be treated for emergency illnesses. Now they will have to compete with everybody else in the community who is wealthier than they and who normally would not be admitted to a public hospital. How does this help the working man? How does it help the person on the lower income? 
He said that admission to public hospitals will be free of a means test. The whole of the White Paper is riddled with means tests. The very contribution is a means test. 
There is so much more I want to say. I conclude, though, with one statement in the White Paper that secrecy will be guaranteed in the data bank of the health insurance cards. I respect the Minister's undertaking that he will not divulge the personal information on those cards about a person's medical history. Let me read to him something from Rydge's journal of September 1973. I would be fascinated to receive his denial of this statement. The article says: 
The large scale IBM computers of the Department of Health in Canberra were churning through prescription data being sent down land lines, when their .printer stopped and began to list out airline reservations. 
Meanwhile, at TAA's headquarters in Melbourne, TAA's Univac computers faltered from their daily task of processing airline reservations, unable to handle some chemists' prescriptions just arrived over the line from Brisbane. 
That makes a farce of what the Minister had to say about complete secrecy. I am not alleging that- the Minister will divulge these things. As a Liberal, I am concerned about this personal information being on record. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has made one of his rare confessions of being restrained. He has also confessed that he has been moderate. I would agree with both of those confessions with regard to the statement he has put before the House. It is a statement of moderation but I should like to point out a couple of instances in which I believe it was not or where the statement had included in it matters which need not have been included if the statement had been one of complete moderation. The Opposition welcomes what the Minister has said. However, at the outset, I should like to refer to what the Minister said on page 18 of his statement. The Minister stated: 
The system just did not evolve the way it should have but people - Ministers and public servants - were too busy with so many other immediate and very pressing issues to call the procedures into question. 
That is not true. I am not suggesting the Minister has misled the House on purpose, but the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has authorised me to say specifically that quite often he did call these procedures into question. 
Unfortunately, the Government will not allow the honourable member for Mackellar to speak on this matter. So that he can justify- 
I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for allowing my friend to speak. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  also called these practices into question. But there is no direct reflection in this document on any previous Minister and we are thankful for that. Therefore, it is not in any way a political document. 
The thing that concerns me about the statement is that running through the entire document like the thread of Ariadne is the fallibility of human beings and, possibly, the future fallibility of machines. Strangely, the Minister has raised the question of human fallibility to strengthen his argument for tightening the procedures. This is the very thing that concerns me and members of the Opposition about the Minister's health insurance scheme. There is nobody in this House who has a higher regard for the integrity and honesty of members of the Public Service than myself. As a former Minister who was responsible for over 5,000 officers, I have nothing but admiration and praise for the officers of the Department of Customs and Excise. But the Minister for Social Security would know that, human fallibility being what it is, there is always a bad apple. Only recently, 2 
Customs officers were prosecuted for being involved in drug smuggling. 
No matter what sorts of precautions are taken with human beings, the temptation is there for them to divulge information and this is one of the reasons why the Opposition is deeply concerned about the data bank that is to be held in Canberra, or wherever it may be, containing the personal medical details and history of all human beings in Australia. We are concerned because of the fallibility of human beings and, indeed, the fallibility of computers about which I spoke the other day in reference to an IBM computer belonging to Trans-Australia Airlines in Melbourne which, instead of tapping out airline reservations, tapped out health prescriptions from the Department of Health. 
Is the honourable member suggesting that that was a lie? 
I am grateful for the interjection because if the article in 'Rydges' was a lie I think the honourable member has a duty to this Parliament to disclose that lie. This statement has not been challenged by anybody on the Government side before. I will repeat it and the honourable member can and will have a duty to deny it. There were 2 computers. One was in Brisbane and one was in Melbourne. One belonged to the Department of Health and one belonged to Trans-Australia Airlines. 
By some freak the TAA computer in Melbourne started tapping out health prescriptions and the Department of Health computer in Canberra started tapping out TAA airline reservations. It is a good story. If that is not true, will the Minister please tell the House about it? I think he has a duty to do that. One thing I found rather strange in the Minister's statement was where he stated: 
To be perfectly frank, if I had not received some letters from different employees of the Department pointing out the weaknesses of this system - and they did this in response to the current hysteria being whipped up on health insurance recording procedures - I doubt that I would ever have called the procedures into question. 
Again it seems to me that the Minister is advancing an argument which we have been advancing. Apparently his own officers have been so concerned about human fallibility that they have rightly and properly in the past brought to his attention this matter of human fallibility. They have done it in the context of the fears expressed by honourable members on this side of the House about the disclosure of personal medical records under the health insurance scheme. I find that a rather strange thing for the Minister to bring into question. The only other 2 criticisms I have are not of the Minister's statement but of the way in which he introduced it. In the last couple of days he has made 2 announcements. 'Smear' is a word I do not like using and I will not apply it here. I think he made a misdirected criticism. Firstly, he said that debt collecting agencies had been given access to departmental records. I was deeply concerned about that as was everybody else. But the Minister in his statement says: 
I regard it as quite improper that debt collecting agencies such as State housing authorities, local government bodies, and power distribution authorities____ 
I had in mind, as did everybody else who heard the Minister and read his report, some sleazy debt collecting agency which uses standover tactics being given access to departmental records. I am not suggesting that the Minister has tried to smear anybody on this, but I think his words both then and in his statement were very ill-chosen. They have been misinterpreted in a very wide section of the community. Unconsciously, I think he has placed a reflection upon the officers of his Department because everybody who read the report was appalled to think that any officers of the Department of Social Services, as it then was, would have given records to a sleazy debt collecting agency. 
The other thing to which I object is the reference to Professor Pollard. It is most unfortunate that the Minister has taken 4 pages of his statement in criticising Professor Pollard, a most distinguished man, a man who has tried to do some real research in this area in which the Minister is interested. Simply because the professor belongs to other organisations such as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Economic Advisory Council of the Australian Medical Association the Minister is virtually calling him a hypocrite. It is also very unfortunate that he has brought into question the fact that Professor Pollard is a member of the Longueville Presbyterian Church. The relevance of that completely escapes me. 
In conclusion I commend the Minister for referring the matter to the Committee of Inquiry into the Protection of Privacy. He has made some point of this, but I want to emphasise it. The fact that certain agencies - State government agencies and local government agencies - can obtain information about pensioners, for example, is often to the pensioner's advantage. In the case of some authorities - housing commissions, for example - if substantiation of the fact that a -person is a pensioner can be made, that person receives special dispensation from that authority. I know that it would not be the Minister's wish to close off additional benefits that might be given to pensioners and people in the low income groups by obsessive secrecy in what he finally implements. I know that that is in the Minister's mind. But I did want to point out that the disclosure of this information, provided that it is under proper and adequate supervision - I agree with the Minister here, I agree with the actions he has taken - quite often can act to the benefit of the underprivileged groups in the community. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question, and I will give him the opportunity either to mislead the House or not mislead the House as he misled a television audience on Sunday night- 
. . . when he stated the untruth that this House had had stacks of opportunity to debate the White Paper- 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for the indulgence of the House to speak for no longer than 3 minutes about the resumption of the debate, or I could go through the forms of the House. May I ask for leave to make a statement not exceeding 3 minutes? 
I know,  Mr Speaker.  I was trying to overcome the necessity for that formality. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I appreciate the difficulties of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  in having such a complex Bill as this brought in at 8 p.m. on a Thursday in the second last week of the sittings. I know the reason why the Leader of the House wants the House to rise next week but I would like to point out, in fairness, that that is not the problem of the Opposition, it is the problem of the Government. I would have thought that a Bill such as this which literally affects every family in Australia should be debated while the proceedings are being broadcast and that there should Be a maximum time allowed for debate so that honourable members on both sides of the House can exercise their right to speak on this proposition. 
The honourable member for Melbourne suggests that we sit another week to determine this matter. That would be welcomed by the Opposition. 
Opposition members - Hear, hear! 
Is there that kind of unanimity in the Government ranks about the suggestion that we sit for another week to debate such an important issue? 
I do not want to be unreasonable about this matter but I suggest that it would be scandalous if the Leader of the House forced this debate on next Wednesday - I understand that that may be his intention - so as to preclude honourable members on this side from speaking at a time when our proceedings are being broadcast to something like 20,000 people, in view of the fact that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has been not unpro vocative in some of the statements he has made about the Opposition and various aspects of this matter. I could use the forms of the House and force a division on a motion that the debate on this Bill be not resumed on Wednesday next but I will not do that. At this stage all I do is appeal to the decency of the Leader of the House and of the Government to bring this Bill back on for debate, a full debate, when the nation can hear it in the way that the people are accustomed to hearing important debates being broadcast. 
This is a relatively simple Bill and the Opposition gives it its full support. In fact, as spokesman for the Opposition on these matters I commend the Government and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for bringing in this Bill. I remind the Government that this is the third time I have given unequivocal commendation to some of its measures. I mention that at this stage because on Thursday next I want to put myself in the light that I am not somebody who continuously and continually knocks the Government just for the sake of being negative and obstructive. 
If I made it 4 times next Thursday I think I would gladly resign my seat in this Parliament, because the issue that comes up on Thursday is something that I think any true Liberal would oppose as vigorously and unequivocally as he possibly could. This Bill makes provision for the abolition of the $10 charge now paid by eligible pensioners and their dependants who are supplied with hearing aids by the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories. Replacement batteries will also be provided free. In 1968 we introduced the system under which pensioners and their dependants were eligible to hire hearing aids for a once only rental of $10 and there was no further charge for maintenance. For some years before this the Commonwealth had been providing hearing aids free to children, repatriation cases, serving members of the defence forces, persons in receipt of allowances under the Tuberculosis Act and in cases where the Commonwealth had a liability under the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. The $10 charge was very much less than the cost of the hearing aids provided by normal commercial outlets. These commonly ranged in the $100 to $300 bracket, depending upon the model needed. This scheme represented a considerable saving to aged persons on low incomes and was provided at a time in life when age and infirmity were likely to make hearing difficulties more likely and aids more necessary. Old age presents sufficient inherent problems of its own such as frailty, less mobility, increased isolation, and so on, and adequate hearing can improve the satisfaction and enjoyment derived by pensioners in their retirement. 
Although the $10 charge paid by pensioners and their dependants has always been much less than privately provided aids and services would have cost, its removal will assist the aged on low incomes. As at 30 lune 1973, a total of 82,593 hearing aids were on issue. I shall read the statistics to the House. It is tragic to know that there were 15,700 people under 21 years of age receiving such hearing aids. There were 40.000-odd pensioners, 24,000 repatriation patients, and members of the armed forces and federal departments made up the rest. Serving members of the armed forces and compensation cases have an obvious claim on the Commonwealth for the supply of hearing aids. Deaf children who suffer the profound and continuous limitations of deafness also warrant preferential treatment if they are to be assisted in adjusting to their problems and making a successful run in life. 
I now pay a compliment to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who is not in the chamber tonight but who is being represented by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  I raised this matter with my friend, the Minister for Social Security. The present system allows for hearing aids made by the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories to be made available free of charge to deaf pensioners. This is fine and commendable, but there is a class of pensioner who has a kind of hearing deficiency which cannot be satisfied in any way with the device now manufactured by the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories. I do not know the technical details, but I understand that the present device made by the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories is inserted inside the ear. To a certain kind of deafness that is of no assistance at all. That kind of pensioner today has to turn outside the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories and go to the Myer Emporium, Angus and Coote, or wherever, and spend up to $300 on a hearing aid which is the only device which will enable him to hear. 
I raised this matter with the Minister for Social Security, who referred me to the Minister for Health. I then wrote to the Minister for Health, and I have had a prompt letter back from him saying that the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories in February or March of next year will have a device which I presume will also bc made available free to pensioners and which will cover this other kind of deafness. I commend the Minister for Health for his prompt reply and just hope that the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories device will be satisfactory to enable old people to hear who cannot hear at the moment with the device presently manufactured by the Laboratories. 
I plead with the Government - and in doing so 1 am conscious of the previous Government's deficiencies in this area - that if the the nationalised Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories device is not good enough to enable old people to hear and does not give them a satisfactory device free, to take some kind of step that will allow old people to hear with a privately manufactured or imported device that does not cost them $300. This has happened recently to a pensioner lady who is very close to me. She has had to fork out S300 to buy a privately imported device. The Bill also includes reference to other matters, such as an increase in the benefit for handicapped children from $1.50 to $3 daily to have effect from 1 January 1974. 
The Bill also includes a number of administrative amendments, including those that will transfer the administration of the medical and hospital benefits scheme and the pensioner medical service from the Department of Health to the Department of Social Security. The Bill will also widen the regulation making powers - this bothers me and, although I will simply flag it now, 1 will have much more to say about it at the relevant time on Thursday next - so that, for example, alterations can be made to the table of medical benefits contained in the Schedules to the Act by regulation rather than by the existing method which requires an amendment of the legislation. I do not know what sinister purpose the Minister for Social Security has for putting this provision before the Parliament, but 1 accept it now on behalf of the Opposition with the reservation that I will have much more to say about it on Thursday. 
 I thank the Minister for that interjection and accept it, except to say that certain clauses of the Health Insurance Bill relate to the Medical Advisory Committee, as I think it is called. It is one of a great number of committees referred to in that Bill. I am referring to the committee that has 8 members, four to be nominated by the Minister and four to be suggested by the Australian Medical Association and other organisations. By this means, terrifying powers are put in the hands of the Minister with regard to fixing the fees that can be charged by doctors under his national health scheme. Again, I do not suggest that there is anything sinister in the Minister putting this matter forward, but read nakedly in the Bill that we will debate on Thursday it brings into relief this sort of procedure. As I understand it, in future the Minister will be able, by regulation, to determine the fees that doctors can charge under his scheme. That is why I raise the matter now as being of some significance. 
The Bill also provides for reductions to be made to anaesthetic benefits and for pensioner medical service eligibility. The Opposition accepts these matters, commending the Government for introducing them. I cannot let this occasion pass without referring to a rather ironical statement made by the Minister for Social Security in introducing the Bill. He said: 
Honourable members will be aware that these provisions will apply only until the introduction of the Government's universal health insurance plan. 
Having already stated the Liberal Party's attitude towards his plan, I would say that those words uttered by the Minister are an exquisite exercise in hope, prayer or charity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister any knowledge of reports from the Redfern area in Sydney of a potentially violent situation which has arisen between the New South Wales Police Force, 21 Division, and the Aboriginal residents of the area. 
Is there any validity in reports that there is a continuous harassment of Aboriginal people by the police. 
Is it a fact that on the evening of Saturday, 20 October 1973, 35 persons, mostly Aboriginals, were arrested at or near the hotel The Empress, and of the 30 persons who were charged with drunkenness, one person was a complete teetotaller. 
Is there any evidence of police discrimination against Aboriginal persons in this area and, if regular weekly harassment is taking place, have the reasons for it been established. 
Will the Minister institute appropriate inquiries with his counterpart in New South Wales concerning these reports. 
Does the Minister for Health know that he was reported by  Mr Peter  Samuel in the 'Bulletin' on 24 November last as saying that he- the Minister - saw- community health centres eventually catering for between 80 and 90 per cent of general practitioner services in Australia, leaving private practice fee-for-service doctors only 10 per cent to 20 per cent of the business? Did he say that he saw Australia moving towards the pattern in England and the Soviet Union where only a few well-off people use private doctors? I ask him a simple question in 2 parts: Firstly, did he say it, or anything like it, and, secondly, because of the silence of his usually non-silent colleague the Minister for Social Security, am I right in assuming that the Minister for Social Security agrees with the Minister for Health? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, on a non-party political point in this morning's Melbourne 'Sun' at page 13 where there appears a heading which reads 'Chipp - no-hopers to gain. The Government health scheme would benefit only pensioners, migrants, indolents, no-hopers and alcoholics, the Liberal Party welfare spokesman,  Mr Chipp,  said yesterday'. I cast no reflection on the young man who was at the Press conference and wrote this article.  His  report of what I said is almost completely accurate. It is the heading to which I object because in fact at that Press conference I said the opposite. I said the present scheme gives preference in public hospitals to the poor, the pensioners, migrants, indolents, drunks and no-hopers. I said the Labor health scheme- 
I acknowledge that ridiculous interjection to place the calibre of the Minister on record. What I said was the complete opposite of what the heading suggests. I am becoming a little sick and tired, as I think are most other members of Parliament, of sub-editors putting on statements made by members of Parliament headings that have no relation to what those members said. 
 Mr Speaker,  it is a pity that the interjections from the Labor Party were not louder, because at the time I speak such is the interest of members of the Labor Party that there are about only 10 Labor members in the House. 
My amendment continues:  and that therefore this Bill and associated Bills should be withdrawn, because the Government's alternative proposals to the existing health scheme will (a) lower the quality of medical care for Australian families, (b) increase total costs for the Government and thus for taxpayers, (c) increase total costs for the majority of taxpayers, because they could only maintain the present quality of their health care by additional heavy commitments for private insurance, (d) reduce freedom of choice, (e) jeopardize the future of religious, private and country hospitals and (f) by design and intent be the first stage of nationalisation of health and medical care in Australia.'. 
We believe that unequivocal opposition is the only course that we as an alternative government can take, because if this Bill and its associates are allowed passage they will produce an egg which a future government would find impossible to unscramble. Before I deal with some of the major specific criticisms of the Labor scheme and attempt to justify our reasons for rejecting it I would like to put our case in palpably clear and positive terms to try to avoid the inevitable charge that the Opposition is being negative and obstructionist. We state that we have a positive policy at this time manifested in the health scheme which is now in force, in the main, with outstanding success. Our scheme features the opportunity for a person to have a doctor of his own choice and in most circumstances the hospital of his own choice, and in all cases the form and nature of health insurance. Our scheme allows flexibility in its administration and competition between doctors, hospitals, health funds and everyone conconcerned with health. It also encourages standards to rise rather than to remain stationary or to fall. It encourages private hospitals and public hospitals to perform their special functions. It encourages voluntary involvement of citizens in the problem of national health. 
However, we concede and have conceded that some deficiencies have developed within it due to the passage of time and the changes in the dynamic society in which we live. These deficiences need progressive reforms, which have been under intensive examination by the Liberal Party's committee on social security, health and welfare over the past several months, and I know also by the Country Party's health and social security committee. My committee, the Liberal Party's committee, has resolved guidelines in several areas. These decisions of principle together with appropriate questions have been allocated to small expert working parties throughout the country so as to test their practicability in the spotlight of expert knowledge. This has been done to avoid the many errors that the Minister for Social Security, in good faith, fell into by announcing principles before having his principles tested by expert practical criticism. The -reports from the working parties are now being received, collated and summarised, and will enable us to submit suggested reforms through the appropriate party machinery at a very early date. 
Some of the major guidelines submitted to working parties by my committee on social security, health and welfare are as follows: We believe as a committee that health care reasonably available is a right. Secondly, we believe that the present Liberal scheme is basically a good scheme and we wish to consider alterations which result in significant improvements in the quality of health care or its coverage or its cost or which would simplify the administration of the scheme. Thirdly, we wish to see the pensioner medical scheme and the subsidised health benefits scheme integrated into the present national insurance arrangements to ensure that all benefits of that scheme accrue to pensioners and other low income sections of the community. Fourthly, we wish to see insurance coverage for basic health care for the maximum number of people. Fifthly, we wish to see the survival of the independent health insurance funds for all areas of health service, including paramedical services, so as to allow people a free choice of health insurance funds. Sixthly, we wish to see appropriate deterrents to the abuse of the health scheme either by patients or by medical practitioners, provided that the deterrent does not make the health scheme unduly complicated and that people needing health care are not unreasonably deterred in seeking it. 
We believe in medical fees being determined annually by an independent tribunal. We accept that these scheduled fees are not binding on all medical practitioners, but if any health scheme is to succeed the scheduled fees must be adhered to by a substantial majority of medical practitioners. This tribunal should consist of representatives of government, consumers and the medical profession, and it should have an independent  chairman.  We believe in the retention of private hospitals although we are not necessarily satisfied with the present standards of all of them. We accept the continued existence of private profit-making nursing homes. However, we would encourage the establishment of non-profit-making homes run by religious organisations, philanthropic and community organisations. We would like to see appropriate control of admissions, rehabilitation and discharge policies. We would like to see a co-ordinated decentralised delivery system of domiciliary care and day hospitals in order to keep out people who do not need to be in nursing homes. We would like to see increased attention given to hostels as alternatives to nursing homes, and appropriate incentives for elderly people to remain in their own homes. 
Before I embark on specific criticisms of the Labor plan I wish to state that there are some features of this Bill with which the Opposition concurs in principle. I mention the apparent - I emphasise the word 'apparent' - increased financial assistance to public hospitals; the proposals to enable visitors to Australia to participate in the scheme on the payment of an appropriate premium; the concept of special medical benefits for unusual or complex procedures; the right of doctors to appeal against the decisions of committees of inquiry; the proposed increase in payments to private hospitals; and the concept, as I have stated, that pensioners and receivers of subsidised health benefits will be integrated into the scheme and become entitled to the same benefits as are enjoyed by all other members of that scheme. However, all these reforms, which when taken in the context of the whole Bill are relatively small and which we acknowledge and approve of in principle, can be introduced with ease into this Parliament as amendments to existing legislation. I am authorised to say on behalf of the Opposition that if this is done, if I can assure the Government that the passage of the reforms will be expedited. In other words, we are saying that these things, which we concede, can be added immediately to the health care system of this country without decimating a scheme that is now running perfectly well and with outstanding success. So again I make the point that the Opposition is not being obstructive or negative in its approach to this legislation; the contrary is the case. 
Let me turn to our basic philosophy and practical objection to the thrust of this Bill and, I emphasise, the associated measures - four of which we have not yet seen - which are summarised in the 6 points of the amendment which I have moved. I shall deal with these in very broad terms only. My colleagues on this side of the House who will follow me in this debate will develop them in finer detail. Most importantly, as I said at the outset, we claim that the Labor scheme will lower the quality of medical care for Australian families. For the purpose of making this point I divide medical care' into its 2 main components - hospitals and medical practitioner treatment. I deal first with the hospitals. In discussing hospitals we must do so in relation to both private and public hospitals. Let us see what the Hayden scheme, if I may use that abbreviation, will do immediately to public hospitals. 
This Bill entitles every person to free treatment without means test in the public hospitals of Australia at a public ward or standard ward level. Such admission to those public hospitals is at present restricted to people on low incomes, to pensioners, to casualty cases and to those suffering from diseases, the treatment of which demand special and sophisticated forms of equipment or treatment. For the sake of accuracy I acknowledge that special circumstances obtain in some areas such as Queensland, but the thrust of the argument still holds. These public hospitals already are used to full capacity. This Bill, if passed immediately entitles millions of additional persons immediate access to admission. This simply means that, overnight, the already fully utilised public hospitals will be expected to cope with that enormous additional demand. Those kinds of people - this is the irony of this Bill - whom the Labor Party supposedly champions, who now have preferential treatment for free and immediate admission to a public hospital, will then find themselves competing for public hospital accommodation with every other Australian. If that is justice by the Labor Party to the poor, to the indigent or to the pensioner then I am confounded by that kind of logic. There are 2 reasons why we believe this additional demand will bc heavy. Firstly, it is human nature for a person to conclude: 'Well, if the Government is compulsorily adding to my taxes in order to provide me and my family with free hospitalisation then I will use it and get my money's worth.' That is human nature. That will create an additional immediate demand on public hospitals. I have challenged the Minister time and again to deny that his advisers in Melbourne have asked private hospitals for 900 additional beds - or, to use the Minister's expression, bed days - the day after his scheme comes into operation. In Melbourne there are roughly 5,000 public hospital beds. That means that the Minister's advisers- the last time I spoke to the Minister he had not found out whether his advisers had given this figure to the Melbourne private hospitals - expect a 20 per cent additional demand overnight on Melbourne metropolitan public hospitals. Therefore I believe that my first allegation can be concluded on that statement alone. 
Secondly, many people will find that they have no option but to go to a public hospital if they are sick because they would not be able to afford the additional heavy financial commitment for private insurance in an intermediate or private hospital bed. The simple arithmetic of the equation is quite devastating. There will just not be enough beds in public hospitals to accommodate the new demand, as I have just proved. The only 3 possible solutions to meeting this demand are firstly, that new public hospitals will have to be constructed. This clearly is impossible and absurd in view of the time scale. So that solution is out. Secondly, waiting times for admission to public hospital beds for 'non-urgent' cases will be extended considerably. I am informed that under the United Kingdom scheme people with such 'non-urgent' problems have to wait up to 3 years and beyond for the treatment of varicose veins, hernias, 'non-urgent' gynaeco.ogical procedures and like complaints. The third possible and probable solution would have an even more disastrous effect: Australia's magnificently run private hospitals will have to be commandeered, invited, persuaded, induced, seduced - choose your own term - to give up some of the intermediate or private beds and become part public hospitals. When we talk about private hospitals I think it is vital to refer back to the Bill to understand the total ramifications of this course. This is the probable course the Government will have to take. I believe that under the provisions of clause 34 (1) of the Bill a hospital will be forced to go to the Government to have it take over some of its private beds as public beds for reasons which I will explain in a moment. Clause 34 provides that where a religious organisation running a hospital applies for a grant the Minister will consider the application. Clause 34 (3), which I submit the Minister did not make this clear in his second reading speech, provides: 
Where the Minister approves an application under sub-section &lt;2), he shall determine the number of beds at the hospital to which the approval relates. 
In practice that provision can be quite devastating. A hospital may find that some of its beds are empty. It may then apply through economic circumstances to have, say, 25 per cent of its beds declared public beds. But under this sub-clause the Minister can act in one of two ways. He can determine the number of beds to be declared public; he can say that he will declare them all to be public beds or declare none of them to be public beds. From that point on the private hospital is completely and utterly under the control of the Minister. 
If one reads on in clause 34 one sees that the provisions become even more insidious. The beds in that private hospital that become public beds will attract the payment of $16 a day. I mention in passing that there is no provision in the Bill for that amount to be escalated other than by an amendment of the Act of Parliament. So that is set. That will provide little joy to people who run private hospitals, when inflation is running at 13 per cent per annum. Clause 34 (4) states: 
There is payable by Australia to an organisation to which this section applies a supplementary daily bed payment- 
That sounds all right. It is to make up the difference between the $16 a day and the cost of maintaining a bed. But the sub-clause continues: at a rate fixed by the Minister. 
Normally a cautious man would look to see the criteria that the Minister would have to have regard to in fixing that rate. Clause 34(7) states: 
In fixing a rate for the purposes of sub-section (4), the Minister shall have regard to the loss of revenue of, and any increased cost to, the organisation- 
A private hospital. There is absolutely no guarantee built into this Act that any applications for supplementary daily bed grants will or need be treated with sympathy or with equity. I say that the thrust of clause 34 means in simple language that as soon as a private hospital offers to the Minister a proportion of its bed capacity for use as standard ward beds, that virtually places them under the control of a socialist Minister in Canberra. 
The significance of this can be better understood if seen in the light of the present Minister's intent. If I misquote him I invite him, with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to correct me forthwith. This Minister, who has the power I have just mentioned, was quoted in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 6 September 1972 as saying: the Labor Party is a Socialist Party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned is for the establishment of public enterprise; 
That, too, to me is extremely significant. I invite my friend sitting at the table opposite, the Minister for Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  to correct me if I am wrong, but he was quoted on 23 July 1972  -  I think this is a remarkably significant statement - as saying: 
Private hospitals and private nursing homes are irrelevant to the Labor Party's concept of a national health scheme and the vast majority of people could easily be catered for in the public hospital sector. 
I understand that at that time the Minister was a member of the Australian Labor Party Health Committee and therefore he made that statement with the authority of that Committee. 
The question might fairly be asked: Why would private hospitals be foolish enough to allow themselves to be partly or wholly nationalised in this way? Why should they make an offer of beds to the Minister for Social Security, which offer in itself is an act of selfdestruction? The answer is simply that they will be forced to because they will be confronted with the uneconomic situation of having many empty beds. I say this for 2 reasons. I have mentioned the first one - that many who now use private hospitals will go to public hospitals because their compulsory taxes will entitle them so to do. The second reason is even more significant. Private hospitals will have empty beds because the cost of additional insurance for private hospital treatment to Australian families will necessarily be so heavy that they will simply be unable to afford intermediate or private ward accommodation. 
I have received estimates from various funds of what it will cost a family man in addition to the 1.35 per cent supertax he will be forced to pay on his taxable income to insure for his wife, family and himself for intermediate or private bed accommodation in a private hospital. The estimates - it is impossible to get an accurate cost - range from $80 to $125 per annum extra in insurance costs to entitle him and his family to a bed in a private hospital. The private hospitals will therefore be forced to go begging to the Minister with the pathetic plea for the Government to take over part of the hospital. 
I was amused to read in the Melbourne 'Age' of 28 November 1973 of the Minister's confident prediction that private hospitals would want to enter into agreements with the Government when his scheme began. His sense of humour came to the fore when he said that they would come voluntarily to him. He said: they would not keep beds empty just to stick to the principle of being private. 
I cannot help being reminded of the 'voluntary confessions' obtained by Father Torquemada and some of his moralist contemporaries, when the Minister talks of the private hospitals voluntarily coming to him to ask him to take beds. This procedure must result in the end of autonomous administration of private hospitals. It must mean that any private hospital which makes an offer to the Minister is playing fly to the spider. 
There is, however, another equally if not more serious consequence of private hospitals becoming part or mainly public hospitals. The greater the number of private hospitals which become public the fewer will be the number of patients who will be able to be treated by the doctor of their own choice. The Minister has made a lot of the fact that his scheme will allow people to have a doctor of their own choice. The scheme does not interefere with that right, he says. Let me give an example. The Mercy Hospital in Melbourne - a great private hospital with fine traditions and a magnificent record of service to the community - has 200 beds. If, say, half of those become public beds, does the Minister seriously suggest for a moment and does he seriously ask us to believe that patients in the 100 public beds would be able to be attended by the doctor of their own choice? Does he seriously suggest that a Melbourne man who wants to be treated in the Mercy Hospital and who goes into a public ward - presuming it is half pub- lie and half private- will be able to be treated by the doctor of his own choice? Does the Minister really suggest that a woman in a public ward would be able to have a doctor of her own choice attend her and deliver her baby? Anyone who knows anything about the administration of hospitals would know that that is an absurd proposition and that it just will not work. 
I shall speak a little further about how this Bill, and its associated measures will lower the standard of medical care. I now turn away from hospitals to the effect of this legislation on medical practitioners, or doctors. I concede that the effect on them will not be as immediate as the effect on hospitals, which will occur overnight. There are dangers in the Bill, particularly those related to the Government's expressed intention to introduce socialised medicine. At the one end we have the fixing of fees. I do not disbelieve the Government for a moment when it talks about nationalised medicine and fixing doctors' fees. Anybody now in this House or listening to the broadcast of these proceedings, who saw the public debate on television a little while ago, in which I thought the Leader of the Opposition absolutely trounced the Prime Minister, will know that the Prime Minister was flushed out with the first question at question time in that confrontation. He was asked by a pressman: 'What impact, Prime Minister, would it have on the Government's attitude of fixing doctor's fees if the prices referendum had a Yes vote on Saturday? Without hesitation the Prime Minister stood and responded without equivocation: It would give us the power to fix doctors' fees, to make the decisions of the tribunal mandatory on doctors'. 
I am very glad to have that kind of interjection, which Hansard will now acknowledge, from the Minister for Services and Property on record. So doctors now, I think, can take little comfort from the Prime Minister and the confirmation by his hatchet man - the Leader of the House - who confirms that that would be a good thing. From the passing of this referendum at the one end doctors' fees will be fixed, and fixed for ever. At the other end - here I want to be fair to the Minister for Social Security and I do not want to misquote him - I suggest that the whole thrust of the Green Paper, sugared down a little in the White Paper and sugared down a little more in the Bill, is bulk billing. 
Did the Deeble report refer to bulk billing as a cornerstone of the plan'? 
 It did. Has the Government resiled from that eventual ambition? I have heard no denial that it has. I want to be fair on this question. My suspicion is based on past statements of many members of the Government on nationalising doctors and nationalising medicine generally. 
However, let me take another case which I think is real, not based on suspicion, and this refers to specialists, particularly surgeons, who now serve both in an honorary capacity and on a fee for service basis in private hospitals and in public hospitals. If the number of private beds in Australia declines - I do not think any honourable member on the Government side will deny that it will; that is the whole purpose of the Government's Bill - it naturally follows that the ability of specialists - I am talking particularly about surgeons - to service and serve patients in private wards or private beds will decline by the same ratio. Honourable members, are aware that specialists rely for their income on treating patients in private beds. The honorary system or the sessional basis upon which specialists treat people in public hospitals has served Australia very well. They are able to treat public patients on an honorary basis because of the fees they can earn by treating private patients after consultation in their private rooms or in the private or intermediate wards of private or public hospitals. 
If the number of private beds declines - and it will - so too will the capacity of those specialists to earn on a fee basis decline. This is the very thing I believe the Labor Party is about. There are only 2 alternatives left - if one can have 2 alternatives - to those specialists. The first is that they must resort purely to a sessional basis working in a public hospital, or work for a salary, both of which results, I believe, would please the Minister for Social Security and his Party immensely. 
I turn to the question of the increased total cost of the scheme to the Government and thus to taxpayers. One of the rare flares of humour the Minister has shown has been his statement, which I have heard nobody express belief in or acceptance of that his scheme will be cheaper and cost less than the present Liberal-Country Party scheme. My colleagues who will follow me from this side of the House in the debate will talk about over- utilisation of hospital and medical services through his scheme. I simply state that point. I refer now, in specific terms, to a survey published by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd. I think the Minister would be gracious enough to concede that that company is one of the most highly respected institutions of its kind in Australia. It has stated categorically that the Minister already has underestimated the cost of his scheme by nearly $300m in the first year and that after the first year the cost will escalate sharply. 
The Minister has always been one of all the people on the front bench of that side of the House who is notorious for planting Dorothy Dixers among his friends - I do not blame him for this - to correct mis-statements and misrepresentations that have been made against the Minister or made about his scheme or its figures. I will concede that there have been some misrepresentations. In fact, I have come to his defence in this respect on one or two occasions. But unless I have missed it, this is one allegation, by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd, about which the Minister has not cared to plant a Dorothy Dixer, has not made a statement about and has not attempted to refute, that is, that his scheme is underestimated by S300m. Why has he not done this? One wonders. 
Already since the Green Paper we have seen a 1.35 per cent tax proposed. It was said 0rig.ally that the money to be collected from that tax would be matched $1 for $1 out of Consolidated Revenue. That figure was then raised to $1.25 out of Consolidated Revenue to the $1 raised by tax. In the White Paper - there is no mention of this in the Minister's second reading speech - the figure has risen to $1.28 out of Consolidated Revenue for the $1 from that tax. That is for the first year of the scheme only. Somewhere else, the Minister, or someone else, has suggested that in the second year the payment will be $1.50 out of Consolidated Revenue to each $1 raised by the 1.35 per cent tax. This is the kind of hidden subsidy that will continue to come from Consolidated Revenue- 
. . . that will finally, as my Leader reminds me, have to be met from one source only, that is, the taxpayers of this nation. The increased cost to taxpayers. I have already covered in the additional heavy commitments they will have to make for private insurance coverage. It will be between S70 and $115 to $120 a year. Let us look at the young family man on a middle sized income. Again these are the kinds of people who at the last election the Labor Party was supposed to champion and to appeal for directly. Can he afford to have a 1.35 per cent tax added to his taxes? That man wants his wife when she has a baby to go into a private ward or an intermediate ward. The people have shown this by voting through their cheque books, that is, by opting for intermediate or private ward accommodation. At least 70 per cent of Australians who insure have opted that way. That man wants his wife or his children to have intermediate or private ward accommodation. Can that man afford - on top of that tax and on top of other rising costs caused by inflationary tendencies - to pay another $80 or $120- whatever the figure may be - a year for that privilege? I suspect that that man will be deeply hurt, and most hurt of anybody, under this scheme. 
Especially, as the honourable member for Corangamite interjects - I thank him for his interjection - if his wife is working because each of them will pay a 1.35 per cent tax. That is an intolerable situation for any young family to find itself in. 
I return to the fourth point that I made earlier, that is, reduced freedom of choice. I have mentioned that the Government, in its Bill, reduces freedom of choice of a doctor. I dwell briefly on this point. I know that my colleagues will develop this point later in the debate. The scheme reduces or eliminates freedom of choice in the choice of an insurance fund up to standard ward level. The Minister, myself and many members on this side of the House, have had some discussion and argument about how many people are now covered by insurance, by the pensioner medical service or other sorts of health insurance cover. The Minister's figure is 87 per cent; our figure is 92 per cent plus. But for the sake of argument let us split the difference and say that 90 per cent of people are covered today. The Opposition believes it is more, but let us just say that it is 90 per cent of the population. 
The Government says: This is no good. We will disregard the wishes of that 90 per cent of the population and we will force those people to pay insurance into a Government health fund through the taxation mechanism.' The Government says: To hell with the ex pressed wishes of 90 per cent of the Australian people to be covered voluntarily by a health insurance fund of their own choice. We will force them into this monstrous, monolithic, bureacratic, mind boggling, one single Government insurance fund which, at the last count, will handle the again mind boggling figure of something like 90,000 claims every day of the week.' Only the mind of a nonsocialist would boggle at that kind of single, monolithic, Government fund handling that volume of work. But the minds of honourable members on this side of the House are appalled at such a prospect. 
If the Government had argued that universal health insurance cover is desirable, that the 8 per cent to 10 per cent who are at present not covered by health insurance or other means should be covered in some way, and then set about devising some means of bringing in that 8 per cent to 10 per cent, leaving the 92 per cent to their own voluntary choice, that sort of move would have had my complete support. But the Government has gone the other way with the 92 per cent. It is already looking at the ones who have voluntary health insurance. It will add to their taxes and force most of them and their families into public wards whereas 70 per cent of them already choose to insure for intermediate or private accommodation. 
I come to the last point of my amendment - nationalisation. My colleagues will take up other important issues raised in the Bill and its associate Bills, such as the worrying aspect of identity cards; the doubtful provisions of section 131; the deep concern felt by liberals about a Government data bank, its mechanical fallibility and the human fallibility of the persons who have access to it; the fact that 70 per cent of Australians have already voted with their cheque books by opting for private or intermediate ward accommodation; the dangers to the doctor-patient relationship inherent in the Government's scheme; the massive injustice to Queenslanders on which I believe my friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  will expand. 
 The honourable member for Adelaide is having one of his rare moments of amusement. When my friend the honourable member for Griffith speaks I am sure that the smile will vanish from his face with astonishing alacrity. Let me conclude by referring briefly to the sixth point in my amendment which is the allegation, agreed to unanimously by all honourable members on this side of the House in the Party room, that by design and intent this Bill is the first stage of nationalisation of health and medical care in Australia. The Opposition supports its charge by no less an authority than the Prime Minister himself. At a Fabian lecture on 25 July 1972 he said: 
The major act of nationalisation in the traditional sense to be undertaken by a Labor Government in the next term, will be through the establishment of a single health fund, administered by a health insurance commission . . . 
What better, more impeccable, higher authority? What greater source, to use already famous words - or should I say the greatest source - could we use to support our fears? He has kept his promise. This Bill certainly does that. But in its design and intent we believe that it goes far beyond the area of the nationalisation of the health funds. This Bill apparently is just part of a sextet, because 4 other Bills are to be introduced next year to complete the Labor jigsaw. 
Do we accept the sugar coated 'innocence' of this Bill or do we believe the publicly professed intentions of the Australian Labor Party about socialisation and the expressed intentions of honest men such as Cass, Everingham, Gun and Hayden, who have gone on record saying that their aim is socialisation of the public sector of medical care, which is palpably on record as their future intent? We certainly cannot disbelieve them in this area where they stand up and are proud to be socialists. The great health debate has gone on for about a year. The task of the Government - not our task - was to prove that its alternative scheme was better than ours. This it has failed to do. Its task was also to persuade the responsible organisations associated with health care that its alternative was better than ours. This also it has failed to do. 
For the record let me state that the Australian Medical Association - the federal and 6 State branches, the National Association of Medical Specialists, the Australian Association of Surgeons, the National Association of General Practitioners, the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia, the National Standing Committee of Private Hospitals, the Association of Medical Superintendents of Australian Hospitals, the Catholic Hospitals of Australia, the Freemasons Hospital, the National Conference of  Major Superiors  of Catholic Religious Orders, the 
National Conference of Junior Chambers of Commerce - I could go on with the list - have failed to be persuaded by Labor's scheme. Its task was also to persuade the people of Australia that its alternative was better than ours. This also it has failed to do. A gallup poll reported in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 12 September 1973 showed that 54 per cent of Australians preferred the Opposition's scheme and only 43 per cent supported the Government's alternative. Therefore, as a responsible Opposition, we will react to this Bill and the associated measures in the only responsible way - by total, vigorous and unequivocal rejection. 

 Mr Molten I second the amendment and reserve my right to speak. 
Or CASS (Maribyrnong - Minister for the Environment and Conservation) (3.33)  -  First of all I would like to touch on some of the points made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He suggested some positive aspects of the Liberal-Country Party health scheme as if they were something the Government had not thought of before and, what is more, that the Opposition had not thought of before either. For example, he came out with the statement that health care reasonably available is a right. Surely no one has ever denied that. Surely that is what all of us should be aiming for. The problem with the present scheme is that the right is limited by one's financial capacity in many situations unless of course one happens to be a really indigent type of person or a pensioner. 
This motion has been expected. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  well knows, the Opposition could make it extraordinarily difficult for the Government. If we refused to grant the Leader of the House leave to move this motion he would have to suspend Standing Orders. Then 4, 5 or 6 divisions would be required in order to get his guillotine motion through on Bills which affect everybody in the nation now living or about to be born. A period of 10 hours will be allowed to debate the health insurance legislation, and I will speak about that later. But 20 or 25 honourable members on this side of the House have done an enormous amount of work on health. They have prepared speeches and they are anxious to make a contribution to this extraordinarily important debate. 
If I, being in charge of the passage of this Bill through this chamber on behalf of the Opposition, were to force the Leader of the House to move for the suspension of Standing Orders, to gag that motion and then to go through 6 or 7 divisions, each taking 8 minutes, a period of an hour could be wasted. The Government has the numbers in this chamber. It is determined to guillotine the Health Insurance Bill, as well as several other Bills, through this chamber in a certain time. After consultation with several of my colleagues, I believe that the interests of this Parliament and of honourable members on this side of the House who object strenuously to this monstrous procedure of guillotining one of the most important Bills that has come into this House would be better served if we do not call for divisions in this instance. This will give honourable members on this side of the House an opportunity to make a contribution to this debate. Therefore, in those circumstances, and in those circumstances only, on behalf of the Opposition I raise the strongest possible protest at this outrage and very reluctantly grant leave to the Leader of the House to move his motion. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler - Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House) - I thank the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  for granting leave, but I cannot say that I agree with the other comments he made. However, I will not discuss them at this stage. I move: 
That in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: The Health Insurance Bill 1973, the Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973, the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill 1973, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 and the Sewerage Agreements Bill 1973. 
I move this motion because, as the honourable member for Hotham has said, these are very urgent and important measures. It is true also that many honourable members on this side of the House wish to speak on these measures. But I point out to him that it is not unusual for the Opposition to have 25 prospective speakers on a measure, because normally when a list of prospective Opposition speakers is requested the name of every honourable member on the other side of the House is listed as a prospective  speaker.  For instance, a few weeks ago the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was listed as a prospective  speaker  in every debate, but he was in hospital with the mumps. This shows that the Opposition can easily rig up a list of speakers. 
The honourable member for Hotham levelled some very severe charges against the Government a few moments ago. We were prepared to allow a very extensive debate on these measures, but this morning the Opposition saw fit to reduce the time available for debating them by proposing for discussion a matter of public importance which evidently it considered was more important than these Bills. A period of 50 minutes was taken out of the time which was to be allowed for debating these Bills. 
I appreciate the need to debate these Bills. I have no desire to extend this debate. But I point out that it is not unusual to propose such a motion in respect of Bills that are considered urgent. For instance, in another place recently this procedure was followed, with the result that Bills providing for the expenditure of $5,068m were passed through the Senate in a very short space of time. The procedure was supported not only by the Australian Labor Party members in that chamber but also by members of the newly formed National Party in that chamber. This procedure was adopted on that occasion in another place where, we are told, the wisdom of the members is great. As I say, those Bills appropriated more than $5,000m. At 4.40 p.m.  Senator Murphy  moved on behalf of the Government in the Senate that certain Bills be declared urgent, and at 4.43 p.m. they were all dispensed with. The Government was supported in that move by the members of the National Party, which has representatives in this chamber. 
This is a formal process in order to dispense with the business of the House. I do not wish to hold up the proceedings. It will be seen, when I announce the proposed times for the consideration of the Bills, that the times are reasonable and fair. I am honest enough to say that no period of time could be provided under Standing Orders to allow every honourable member who desires to speak on these Bills to do so. There are just as many disappointed people sitting behind me on The Government benches as there are sitting opposite. This procedure is being adopted in order that we might be able to get through the business of the House and to allow honourable members the maximum period of time to debate these measures. When this debate concludes tonight, as the honourable member for Hotham said more than 10 hours will have been allowed for the debate, and that is a considerable period of time. When the debate concludes no doubt those honourable members who have the most knowledge on the subjects will have spoken in it, as no doubt will those members of committees which have inquired into the subject matter of the Bills. I regret that honourable members will not have had more time to debate the subjects, but when all is said and done, everybody knows that the Opposition has said that it will not have anything to do with the health proposal and that it will throw it out lock, stock and barrel, that was said even before the Opposition had heard the arguments from this side of the House. That being the case, Labor has been very liberal in allowing a period of 10 hours to debate this question. 

 - Mr Speaker, as I foreshadowed, the Opposition strenuously and vigorously oppose this move to curtail debate on probably the most important issue introduced by the Government in this parliamentary session. The legislation was brought in last Thursday week. The plan was to bring it on for debate on Wednesday last, when the proceedings of this House were not being broadcast, so that the Parliament could rise last Thursday night. It was only in response to the protests of the Opposition and to public demand and the odium which would have attached- 
Does the honourable member for Scullin, who is a doctor, suggest that this is not an issue in which the Australian people are interested? 
The honourable member for Scullin ought to be ashamed of himself. He has shamed his profession by saying that the Australian people are not interested in a debate on a matter that affects every person in Australia with respect to their health and health care. The Opposition is trying to be cooperative in this situation. I register for the record and while the proceedings are being broadcast that we vigorously oppose this monstrous curtailment of debate in this Parliament. As I mentioned before, if we were to go through the forms of the House and divide the House where Standing Orders would give us opportunities to divide, it could be that another hour would be taken up while we sit here, the bells are rung, and the tellers count the votes in this House. 
The Opposition is prepared to let those few honourable members whom the Government will now permit to speak on this issue to take part in the second reading debate until that debate is curtained at 5.30 p.m. My calculation is that if each speaker this afternoon takes the full time available to him approximately 4 more speakers on this side of the House will be able to participate in this debate. 
As the Opposition is co-operating in this matter, I appeal through you,  Mr Speaker,  to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and to Government speakers who will participate in the debate to curtail their remarks. Instead of using the full 20 minutes available to each of them, I ask them to make some gesture to the Opposition in this important matter by curtailing their remarks on this Bill to perhaps 10 minutes so that more members on this side of the House can speak in this debate. 
The Leader of the House misrepresented the Liberal Party at least when he said that before its members had seen the Bill they had publicly announced that the Liberal Party would throw the legislation out, lock, stock and barrel. That is not true. What we said was that, if the Bill followed the course and thrust of the White Paper we would oppose it. We kept our options open, as a responsible Party should, until we saw the Bill. When we did see the Bill, we saw that it was not only as bad as the White Paper; in fact, it was a lot worse. That is the reason why we proposed to throw it out, lock, stock and barrel, as the Leader of the House suggests. 
We are asked on this side of the House, like good little boys, to be satisfied with 10 hours of debating time. The Leader of the House says that 10 hours debate is a lot of debate for this issue. Almost every person on this side of the House wishes to speak on this legislation. For the record, and in fairness to them, I wish to record in Hansard those whose names are on the speaker's list, given to me by the Opposition Whip, to participate in this debate. Reading from the bottom of the list, I point out that those who will not be able to participate in this debate are: The honourable members for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  Angas  (Mr Giles),  Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  Canning  (Mr Hallett),  Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  Corangamite  (Mr Street),  Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  MacMillan  (Mr Hewson),  Ryan  (Mr Drury),  Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  With luck, we will have 4 speakers this afternoon from the Opposition side. There are others on our side who foresaw the move by the Leader of the House and who did not even put their names down. 
The honourable member for Griffith has done an enormous amount of work on this legislation as it affects Queensland. He will be debarred from debating it. He has made calculations to show that the people of Queensland - the taxpayers of Queensland - will be paying $35m in additional taxes for services that they are already receiving free. That is the kind of point that the honourable member for Griffith wishes to make. The honourable member for Bendigo- 
I appreciate that. 
The honourable member for Bendigo has a contribution to make on the effects of this so-called Hayden scheme on the provincial and country hospitals in his electorate. AH members on this side of the House have similar contributions to make. 
In conclusion, the Leader of the House suggests that it is our fault that he is moving to gag this debate. If he wants a real blue in this House, he will make those kinds of provocative remarks. He accused us of having the temerity to bring on something for debate which, to paraphrase his own remarks, was a matter of relative unimportance. Let me remind him of what was this matter of relative unimportance, to his mind. Trie Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  proposed for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The need for the Government to now acknowledge that it must adopt positive policies to halt inflation . . . 
If the Leader of the House and the Government believe that inflation in Australia is a matter of relative unimportance, that is the very reason why they are now earning the odium of the people of Australia. On this side of the House, we believe that subject to be a matter of ultimate importance as the Australian people showed on Saturday last in their distrust of this Government. 
For these reasons, the Opposition does object strenuously to this measure proposing the gag and the guillotine. We are to be given half an hour to debate this Pill in Committee. It runs into 152 pages with schedules. I suspect that the reason why the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  wants the Bill to go into Committee - I have not been paid the courtesy of having his amendments yet - is the typographical errors and the misprints in the Bill and the fact that he wants to move certain amendments to the Bill at the Committee stage. These facts indicate again the haste with which this important legislation was introduced and the reason why it should be fully debated on this side of the House. For the record, I repeat that we vigorously oppose this gag and guillotine motion, but we will not divide on it for the reasons that I have stated so that we may allow as many members of the House as possible to debate the legislation as they should be able to debate it. 
 I am not the Opposition's spokesman on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill and the Sewerage Agreements Bill. Those Bills are to be guillotined on other days. I am astonished to see on the list that the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill is to be guillotined by 10.30 tonight. This Bill was introduced a little over a week ago. It has massive implications for the health services in this country. The other day at a Press conference, with a view to being co-operative I stated that the Opposition would not be opposing that Bill at this stage but would reserve the right to amend it in the Senate after we, as an Opposition, had a chance of conferring with State Ministers for Health on it. Also I reserved our right to amend it via the Senate at any other time. 
I have just received a copy of a telegram which was sent to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  by the Minister for Health in New South Wales asking the Minister to defer consideration of this Bill. I will not canvass the Bill at the moment; I just want to illustrate my point. The Bill gives the Federal Government power to establish health community centres virtually anywhere in Australia without reference to a State. I am not necessarily opposing the concept of health community centres. What I am stating, though, is that as far as I know the Federal Minister for Health has not discussed this concept with any State Minister for Health in Australia. Yet the Bill was brought in here 8 or 9 days ago and it will be guillotined tonight. I would have thought that in the sheer interests of equity the Government would at least have allowed the Opposition time to confer further with the State Ministers for Health to get their views on it. 
Already I have received 3 telegrams from 3 State Ministers for Health expressing deep concern about this Bill. I will be speaking more about that later in the day, but I want to foreshadow now the Opposition's objection to the whole of this motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and also to point out particularly the insidious nature of including the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill in this blanket guillotine. Therefore, any undertakings I gave for a speedy passage and any support of it have now been cancelled by this reckless use of the guillotine on a Bill in respect of which there was no need for it. 
We are debating the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill 1973. I should not be surprised if listeners to the broadcasts of the Parliament are slightly confused. They may think that this is another Bill to institute the setting up of a commission. The proposal under this legislation is, however, separate from the so-called Hayden scheme. This might be termed part of the Everingham scheme. 
I would not disagree with my friend the honourable member for Hunter on that. They are two good men, but sometimes their policies are as desperately misguided as are the policies and speeches of the honourable member for Hunter. On behalf of the joint Opposition I support in general principle what this Bill does, but 1 would like to express some reservations and some concern on behalf of the Opposition on certain sections of it. Because this Bill was introduced on 28 November, which is almost 2 weeks ago, may I for the record refresh the memory of honourable members as to what this Bill does? It really legalises or formalises the Sax commission of inquiry into national hospitals and health services. I would like to make the point that the terms of reference and responsibility of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission were announced by the Minister for Health on 5 April 1973. When the Minister announced those terms of reference and responsibilities they were applauded by all sections and organisations responsible for the delivery of health care throughout the nation. They were supported by hospitals generally, by doctors, by the Australian Medical Association and by other organisations. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill embodies matters which were not included in the original terms of reference and which change radically the acceptability of the Commission under the terms of the legislation. The main points of difference introduced for the first time in the Bill relate to the pronouncement of executive authority as a function of the Commission. The original terms of reference of the Commission were confined to areas of research and recommendations regarding planning and development of health services, recommending priorities regarding areas of need and recommending the allocation of project grants for the development of comprehensive community health services. 
The Bill now before the House not only embodies legislation to ensure the continuance of the functions I have already set out - such functions were agreed to by the State authorities, as I understand it - but also it goes much further. This is the area of concern that I want to express in this House tonight on behalf of the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Country Party. To illustrate our concern I read the functions of the Commission. We agree entirely with most of the functions of the Commission as they are embodied in the Bill. As an Opposition we agree with the philosophy of the Bill because what it does is establish community health centres - sometimes with salaried doctors or salaried paramedical personnel - in those areas where people are poor, where people cannot understand if they or members of their family become ill, where they can go for medical advice and medical service. 
In many areas in Australia - I am thinking of those inner industrial suburbs of the big cities or country towns - it is not economically viable for doctors, dentists or other people associated with the paramedical professions to set up practice. Therefore, the people in those areas are denied medical care when they or their families need it. As I understand the thrust of this Bill, it provides for the establishment of these centres by the Commonwealth in order that those people and their families can be attended to when they are ill or need medical care. The Opposition thoroughly agrees with that basic philosophy. In fact, it is part of the platform and policies that I announced when replying to the so-called Hayden scheme last Thursday. 
Therefore, we agree with clause 5 of the Bill insofar as it provides that the functions of the Commission will be to make recommendations to the Minister for Health in the Commonwealth Parliament in relation to the provision of health services. We agree that it should be the function of the Commission to ascertain the health care needs of the Australian community and to make recommendations to the Minister in relation to the needs and in relation to health care delivery systems, etc. I refer to sub-paragraphs (i) to (v) of paragraph (b) of clause 5 (1) of the Bill. 
We agree that the functions of the Commission should be to investigate means of securing and, with the approval of the Minister, to arrange for, the representation of Australia or the Commission on State, Territory, regional and local government organisations involved with health care, provided it is done after consultation. We agree with the Government that a function of the Commission should be to promote and take part in planning in relation to health services, etc. We agree that one of the functions of the Commission should be to achieve the avoidance of any unnecessary duplication in health services. We agree that one of the functions of the Commission should be to achieve efficiency in health services. When the original proposal to establish the Commission was announced by the Minister in April, it was welcomed, as I have mentioned before, by all sections of the community. In fact, it was regarded - to quote the medical profession - as the hope of the side to rationalise hospital and health care services throughout the nation. The Sax Committee is respected, I think, throughout the nation by all people concerned with medical care. Its interim report, which was criticised in some small areas, was acclaimed as being an advance in research into this basic question of medical care. 
The one paragraph which has been inserted into the Bill and which gives us great concern is paragraph (c) of clause 5 (1). It contains a proposal which was not announced by the Minister in his statement in April, and which has never been suggested by the Minister or by anybody else since the discussion on this question began. That paragraph states that the functions of the Commission are: with the approval of the Minister, to make grants, upon such conditions, if any, as the Commission determines, of financial assistance out of the moneys of the Commission to organisations and persons of a kind referred to in sub-paragraph (b) (v); 
That virtually means that the Commission is to be given executive powers to spend money, with the approval of the Minister, in any place in Australia in order to establish a health centre which could employ salaried doctors paid for by the Government, salaried dentists paid for by the Government and salaried physiotherapists and practitioners of paramedical services paid for by the Government, without reference to any of the State governments. The Opposition agrees with the philosophy behind the Bill that those free services should be provided to poor people or to people in rural areas where doctors and those providing the other paramedical services are not available. But we are concerned to read paragraph (c) in clause (5)(1) of the Bill in conjunction with the announced aims of the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  who is sitting at the table-, who in response to a question I asked last week confirmed that in his view -medical care and medical practice in Australia should be provided by such centres, and that the procedure of doctors attending patients in private practice, in a doctorpatient relationship, should, and will inevitably, be reserved for the very wealthy or those few odd cranky people who would prefer to go to their own doctors rather than to attend a free government clinic. The Minister essentially is nodding his agreement to my proposition. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask your indulgence to allow the Minister to interject. Is that not essentially what the Minister said in reply to my question? 
I thank the Minister for his acknowledgment. As far as honourable members on this side of the House are concerned, I think that that is a devastating confession of the Minister. He has just recorded in Hansard, at my invitation, the fact that in his view it is not only inevitable but also desirable that in the future 80 per cent of Australians will attend for their medical care at a government run clinic where they will get their services free, where there will be no doctor-patient relationship, and that only 20 per cent, the very wealthy, will reserve the right to receive private treatment, as happens in the Soviet Union and other countries. This is the sort of remark, interjection and statement that the Minister makes. I respect him for being a socialist and for having the views that he holds, but I violently disagree with those views. This is the very reason why we express concern about this Bill, because it gives the Minister and the Labor Government the power to take over private practice, if it wishes. 
I acknowledge the interjection of the honourable member for Hunter. I was very heartened by what was said by the Minister for Health today at question time. In response to a question from his own side of the House, I believe, he reaffirmed the view that the intent of the Government was to establish health centres only in those areas that I have mentioned - in areas of need - and I thoroughly support that. But I oppose with all the vigour I have the establishment of these kinds of health centres, out of taxpayers' money, in those areas which are already well serviced by doctors and by paramedical services and where they would be in direct competition with the forces of free enterprise in those areas. 
Someone said 'Oh!' Could I record that interjection in Hansard? 
The honourable member for Burke has something to say. 
As much as I have great affection for the honourable member for Burke, 1 would suggest that all he is capable of in this 
House lately is yawning. He would be better served by making more intelligent interjections than simply yawning. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
by leave- The Opposition supports the extension of the terms of reference of this Committee, lt would always concede the right of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or any Minister to extend the terms of reference in this way. However we are disappointed, as I am sure is the Government, that this important report will not be debated this session because, as the Prime Minister said, instead of the report being delivered almost forthwith its anticipated date of completion is now June. I would have liked a further indication from the Prime Minister that those sections of the report which have been completed now might have been submitted to the Parliament for debate this session rather than holding up debate until the whole of the report is presented in June. 
According to the schedule of the House, after the Budget is introduced next session it may well be October, September or November before this House debates this very important question. 
May I say that the thrust of the Prime Minister's remarks is supported by the Opposition. Indeed, as I have mentioned in public addresses that I have made on behalf of the health committee of the Liberal Party, the whole purpose of our consideration of a health scheme is not obsessed with what was known as the Hayden scheme of merely directing itself to 'funding, but to the prevention of disease and sickness. This is an area to which the Prime Minister has referred and which we regard as very important. I am not persuaded, nor is any member of my committee, that people who are being discharged from hospitals or other places of rehabilitation are fit to take their place in the community again. This assertion can also be extended to cover a person who has suffered a stroke or a heart attack. That person goes into a hospital, undertakes a very short period of so-called rehabilitation and is then thrust back into the community with a view to finding a useful place in society again. This does not happen. One thinks of a person who is inflicted with a stroke, loses all control of his voice and cannot speak. It is months before that person is able to take his place again in society and follow a useful occupation, whereas his actual period of sickness from the stroke might last a period of only a week or 2 weeks. When one thinks of the implications of surgery on limbs for cancer and such diseases, one is not satisfied with the area of rehabilitation. 
The Prime Minister adds mental incapacity to the terms of reference. The Opposition would thoroughly support that. I believe that there is an enormous number of people, particularly young people, who are incapable of relating to the society or the social unit in which they find themselves - whether that be the family, the marriage or whatever. They leave that unit and find themselves in a no-man's-land. They drift into a degraded state, a degraded system of living, and end up in some sort of institutionalised home for the mentally ill. They are given brief treatment and discharged back to society without their having been properly rehabilitated. These social misfits are caught in this vicious circle over and over again without their being rehabilitated. Finally people who initially suf fered some mental illness end up on the surgeon's table or in the physician's waiting room because they have become sick people in the physical sense, when with adequate treatment for their initial complaints their subsequent conditions might have been prevented. 
In conclusion I wish to join, with the statement by the Prime Minister, a remark made by, I think, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  this morning in answer to a question. He referred to the Woodhouse Committee and said that the Government was looking forward to the reception of a report. He also mentioned the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office. Until the Opposition knows what the Government's proposals are in relation to the establishment of a Government insurance office, we will not pre-empt ourselves by being critical of those proposals; but the mind boggles when one looks at the program and the performance of socialised activities of the Government since it has been in office. Having in mind the establishment of a Government insurance office and the extended terms of reference of the Woodhouse Committee, especially the words 'together with the application of the scheme where death results from such sickness or defect', one wonders how open-ended the Government's intentions are in this area of social welfare and social security. We would commend anything that is humanitarian but I would remind the Government that it is not a bottomless pit from which one funds social welfare payments. The social welfare state might be all very well in theory but someone has to pay for these benefits and someone has to fund this so-called Australian Government insurance office. After saying those words of caution, the Opposition would support the extension of the terms of reference of this important committee and support the Prime Minister's thanks to the governments of New Zealand and New South Wales for allowing the distinguished gentlemen mentioned by the Prime Minister to serve on the inquiry. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek some guidance from the Government. What is the next Bill to be debated? The Opposition has bent over backwards -today to co-operate with the Government to get the Social Services Bill 1974 through this chamber and presented to the Senate tonight for early passage to give pensioners an opportunity to enjoy the increased pension rate 2 weeks earlier. The Opposition has done that at great personal inconvenience. Many honourable members on this side of the House have declined to speak on the Social Services Bill, although they wanted to speak on it, in order to get the Bill through this chamber. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  has just walked into the House and has taken up 10 minutes of the time of the House on making a second reading speech on the Repatriation Bill although he knows that, because of the Standing Orders debate on any legislation will have to cease at 10.30 p.m. tonight. I asked the simple question: Is there going to be a cognate debate? I was told no. Who is running the show on the other side of the chamber? The Opposition is prepared to co-operate, but what does the Government want? The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is now presumably to make a second reading speech on the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill 1974, which is not listed on the blue notice paper. Does the Government want that Bill to be debated and passed tonight or does it want the Social Services Bill to be debated and passed tonight or does it want nothing to be debated and passed tonight? Will someone please tell us and we will co-operate? 
As I mentioned a moment ago, the Opposition has bent over backwards to expedite the passage of the Social Services Bill, because if the Bill is passed tomorrow, as I understand it, age pensioners and widow pensioners will receive their $3 increase  -  $5 for a married couple - 2 weeks earlier. It is certainly the wish of the 
Opposition that that should happen. We are pleased to co-operate with the Government on that, notwithstanding that many members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party wanted to speak on this very important issue of social services. They were prepared to forgo their rights tonight so we could get the Bill through. It is now 3 minutes past ten and it is a matter of some doubt whether this Bill will be passed tonight, but hopefully it will be passed tomorrow in time to be sent to the Senate and passed there. 
I received a draft copy of the Social Services Bill at 6 p.m. tonight, As with all Social Services Bills it is fairly complex in parts, and I take it from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on trust that there is nothing in the Bill in fine print that is not in his second reading speech, because the Liberal Party has not had a full opportunity to go through the text of the Bill as we would have liked to do as a responsible Opposition. There is one thing on which I would like to criticise the Goverment - it is a matter of procedure - before I get to the substance of the Bill. That is the difficulty we are finding as an Opposition in being able responsibly to comment on the intentions of the Government. There are many ways in which the Government is releasing information to the public. One is by the well-established process of leaking either out of Cabinet or out of Caucus. Another procedure is through a Press conference held by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  after a Cabinet or Caucus meeting, and the third method is by a ministerial statement outside this House or a statement by a Minister without documentation through the Press. I place on record, as far as my area of responsibility is concerned, my strongest objections to the fact that the Opposition, but more particularly, the Parliament, is not being paid the courtesy of being told of the Government's intentions. 
I do not want to be unduly critical of the Minister for Social Security, who personally to me is the soul of co-operation, but I was astonished - if I may intrude this matter - to be telephoned by a representative of the Press tonight at 9 o'clock just before I was about to speak and asked: 'Would you care to comment on a statement just made by the Minister for Social Security on private health insurance?' I said to the member of the Press gallery: 'But I have been in the Parliament and listening in. The Minister has not made a statement'. He said: 'No, he has issued one to the Press gallery. I have the statement in my hand'. What is the situation when Parliament is sitting and the Minister issues a statement on private health insurance which is a basic attack on the life insurance funds and does not make it to the Parliament? The Minister knows that if he had asked for leave to make such a statement he would have got it in a flash. We would welcome a debate on this issue. I deplore the habit of the Government of treating Parliament in this way. 
The Bill we are debating is a Bill to increase age pensions, widows' pensions, unemployment benefit and the like. I would like to refer to some statements made by the Minister for Social Security which I regard as rather pathetic. I almost felt sorry for him as he said them because the poor chap, when he announced that there was to be a $3 increase in the pensions said: 
By any measures, these increases are the most generous in pensions in Australia for more than 20 years. 
It is true. He went on: 
In absolute money terms they are the highest increases awarded since age pensions were introduced over 60 years ago. 
That is also perfectly true. What is also perfectly true is that they have to be the highest in absolute money terms because since federation this country has never seen a rate of inflation equal to that which we see at present because of the maladministration of this Government. It is absolutely pathetic of the Minister to say: 'Here is the biggest increase that you pensioners have ever got'. He did not say: 'In money terms'. He has to pay a $3 increase to pensioners to bring them up to the level on which they were in 1972. The Minister did a lot with his figures later in his speech, but figures will not impress the pensioner. Let him ask any pensioner who goes to the supermarket today whether he is that much better off under a Labor Government than he was under the Liberal Government of 1972. To prove the point, I refer to some figures given to me by the research service of the Parliamentary Library. These figures show the index of purchasing power of the standard pension rate as of now compared with that of December 1972. If one could believe the Minister and the gaggle of figures that he presented, one would think that the pensioner today, under Labor, under this 
Party of conscience and social concern', to quote the Minister, would be able to go into a supermarket and buy all the goodies that he could not buy under a Liberal-Country Party government. 
The Minister says: 'Hear, hear'. Let him challenge the statistics released by the Library, whose integrity and independence I do not think he would query. The Library tells me that if the December quarter of 1972 is 100 as an index of purchasing power, as of tonight, 20 March 1974, the purchasing power of the pension is 97.9, which is a drop of 2.1. 
If the honourable gentleman will restrain himself for a moment I will come to the $3 which the Government is adding. He is pathetic, too. He asked: 'What if we add the$3 that we are adding tonight?' Of course, that is a different thing. Notwithstanding the Minister's claim that the pensioner is better off, the point I am making is that today, in the supermarket, the pensioner is worse off than he was in 1972 in terms of purchasing power. Tonight the magic happens. The Government shovels on another $3 a week out of desperation because the economy is right out of control, and the pensioner gratefully receives the $3. We are helping the Government to give the pensioner that $3. But what will happen to the pensioner next week if inflation is maintained at a rate of 13 per cent or more? What will happen to him next week, next month or in the next quarter? There will have to be another massive increase in the pension, as there is now. That is one of the reasons why we as an Opposition, caring so much for the lot of the pensioner, encouraged the Government to bring in this Bill tonight and to expedite its passage so that pensioners can be paid the increase as soon as possible. 
I will deal with one or two aspects of inflation as it affects the pension. This criticism is not levelled necessarily at the Minister for Social Security who, as the Minister responsible for pensioners and the indigent, cares for them. The Minister, being so shocked and dismayed at the dismal economic performance of his Government, has had to take action to remedy the damage that has been done to pensioners. This is not criticism of him, hut it is certainly criticism of his Government. When one looks at what this Government, by its irresponsible management, has really done to the lot of the pensioner and of the person on a fixed income it makes we writhe a little when I hear the Minister claim that his party is a party of conscience and social concern. 
I should like to speak for a moment on the effects of inflation on those kinds of people. We know that one of the effects of inflation is that there is a redistribution of income and wealth - an arbitrary redistribution, an inequitable redistribution, since some incomes and asset values rise much faster than others, and some do not rise at all. The main losers in inflation are the lenders and the cautious savers, and the Minister with his knowledge and study of economics would be the first to admit this. Is it a party of conscience and social concern which allows thrifty people, who have saved through their lifetimes and who have some little nest egg for when they reach the age of 65 years or 60 years to have their nest egg completely dissipated because of the Government's inflationary policies? I would have thought that that was a party completely lacking in conscience and social concern. The interest savings that such people accrue might rise by a couple of per cent because of the high interest rates, but they do not rise enough to compensate for the fall in the purchasing power of their capital. The real rate of their return is negatived. 
I ask the Minister: What happens to pensioners who have invested all their lives in life assurance policies and private superannuation schemes, which normally provide a lump sum on retirement? Let us go back 10 years. Let us take a pensioner who insured himself by sacrifice so that he would get, say, $10,000 on retirement. That person when he was 55 years of age would have said: 'When I am 65 I will get $10,000', which in those times would have been a reasonable nest egg to look forward to. Because of the Government's policies, what sort of a nest egg would $10,000 be to that person today? I have great sympathy for that type of pensioner who because of his thrift or some other means, is receiving an extra weekly payment from a private superannuation fund to add to his pension. To hundreds of thousands of elderly Australians this means the difference between living on the bare pension and being able to afford one or two things that might make life a little more comfortable. The value of that weekly supplement they have earned has been completely eroded. It is all very well for the Government to maintain relativity between the age pension and the cost of living but that does not help people who have saved for themselves. 
Those who gain most from inflation are borrowers - that is, those people who have already purchased homes, consumer goods and capital equipment. The burden of their repayments is much reduced by inflation, and it is only partially offset by the currently higher interest rates. The people who really benefit are those who invest or speculate in real assets like land, buildings, precious metals, and art works which are non-perishable and relatively limited in supply. It is a very hollow claim when a man, who says he belongs to a party of conscience and social concern, allows his Government to follow policies that benefit the speculators - those who invest in land, precious metals and art works. Are there many pensioners who can invest in land or precious metals or works of art? Do they benefit from the policies of the Government? One wonders about this claim of being a party of conscience. 
Socially, of course, inflation causes a redistribution through individual gains and losses, and that tends to create bitterness, social divisiveness in the community and antagonisms. Industrially, it causes more antagonism and wasted time as more time is devoted to struggle to beat inflation, either past or anticipated. Normal business operations are hampered through inflation. Time is wasted in adjusting prices and wages. Faith in long term contracts involving money values is eroded. Inflation makes business investment decisions -more difficult due to future price uncertainties and unrealistic profit figures from historical cost accounting. 
Inflation distorts resource allocation. Energy and resources .are diverted from normal production and savings into hedging against inflation, usually by speculation in existing assets rather than in new production since they show the fastest price rises. Inflation has a danger of escalation which again affects pensioners and those on fixed incomes. At present firms anticipating inflation accelerate the rate of inflation by raising prices, and unions, in their bid for increased wages, anticipate inflation and bid higher for increased wages than a normal responsible union might wish to do. Therefore, inflation, as it is now being practised, with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  talking about rates of 200 per cent being not acceptable but not saying what he regards as an acceptable rate, is self-fulfilling, selfpropelling and self-destructive for those in the community who are thrifty and who make an effort to do something about their old age. This inflation later may become hyperinflation - a flight from currency into commodities and real assets, driving their prices even higher. The longer the control of inflation is delayed, the longer may be the recession and unemployment required to control it eventually. 
I come to the other feature of the Bill before the House which deals with unemployment benefits. The Minister could find himself, as could his colleague the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  with an astronomical bill for payment of unemployment benefits unless inflation is halted in some way by this Government. My colleague, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  will be talking about that part of this Bill which affects his area of responsibility - unemployment benefits - and in particular about the difference of opinion that apparently exists between the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Labour. One says that there are loafers and bludgers, but the other denies their very existence. One would like this position to be clearly defined by each of the Ministers. My colleague from Wannon will refer to this aspect tomorrow. 
In conclusion, I respond to the taunt of the Minister for Social Security to my Party about its attitude to the Labor Party's claim for pensions to rise to 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings seasonally adjusted. The Labor Party has claimed that that is its goal. 
Perhaps one day the honourable gentleman will explain to me the difference between the 2 terms. I will not quibble about it. I will say: The Labor Party states that that is its goal. It is a magical figure. As spokesman for this side of the House on this matter, I have not said that we agree or disagree with it. What is magical about 25 per cent? Is there some magical feature in it? 
I am sorry; I did not hear the interjection by the honourable member for Robertson. I yield to him. 
That is less than charitable of the Minister for Overseas Trade. The Minister for Social Security suggested that it was great generosity on the part of this Government to grant a $3 a week increase in the basic pension rate. This was brought in during the last week of sitting. The Minister mentioned certain figures in his statement. I say this in a spirit of jest and it is not unparliamentary. The old saying is that figures never lie but liars can figure. I am not for one moment calling the Minister a liar. The point I am making is that one can produce figures to prove almost anything. The Minister said that the consumer price index has increased by a little over 13 per cent since this Government took office and average weekly earnings have increased by about IS per cent but the standard pension rate has increased by 30 per cent. Let the Minister ask any pensioner in this country who goes to a supermarket or who is paying rent whether he thinks he is 30 per cent better off now than he was in December 1972 or any percentage better off. The statistics which I presented to the Parliament in the last week of the last sitting were obtained from the Parliamentary Library and they indicated that with the $3 increase which was recently granted the lot of the pensioner when measured against the consumer price index is about the same as it was in December 1972 except that the pensioner who pays rent is, of course, worse off for the reasons that I have just given. 
The figures I have produced are not out of my own head. They came from a source to which I would think the Minister would pay some respect, and that is the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. If the Minister wishes to suggest - and I seek your indulgence by pausing,  Mr Speaker  - that that section of the Parliamentary Library lacks integrity, let him say so now. 
This is not a private conversation,  Mr Speaker.  There was an interjection and I replied to it. It will be recorded in Hansard and I am satisfied with that. I am a little disappointed with this document although, with respect to Professor Henderson, I have not read it with the care that I would have liked to have applied had I been given more time. The Minister made reference to table 2 on page 9 of the report which shows that every fifth adult income unit in Australia is poor. This is something that I would have liked to have read more about, particularly how Professor Henderson and his Commission drew that magic line at $27 a week for a single pensioner. How does one arrive a: such an arbitary figure? I should have liked to have seen more backup evidence and information on how the Committee judges a person to be poor or not poor. I look forward to receiving some further information on that  when  the final report is brought down in November. In conclusion, I repeat that the Opposition's position on this terribly important document is the same as the Government's. We will look at it and consider its implications in a budgetary context and in a social context. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
Well, you did not at the time. Responding on behalf of the Opposition I had the full authority of both of the Parties of this House to say, and the man who led for the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  also had authority to say: 'We accept your challenge. Minister for Social Security. We will reject this Bill. Now take us to the people on this issue.' And the Government chickened out on it. Now we have this farce, this absolute farce- 
I accept your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I have half a minute left to speak on this matter. Frankly, this tactic of the Government is playing right into our hands. It shows to the massive listening audience tonight - I am told it is the biggest listening audience this Parliament has had in years - the futility, the farcical situation that this Government has put this Parliament in and the fools that Government supporters have made of themselves over this empty gesture. This will be understood by the public listening to this debate. 
This device by the Government I can only describe as a last desperate thrust in a series of death throes of a dying government. Tonight we were in the middle- 
 Mr Speaker,  are you going to permit that hypocrite from Blaxland to say that? 
The issue that the House was debating before dinner was 2 Appropriation Bills. The present situation represents one of the biggest political crises that this House has seen since Federation. The House was debating the Bills and a vote was supposed to be taken tonight. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has come on and grandstanded and said: 'We want a vote. If you want an election we will give you one.' One can imagine that over dinner the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and his cronies, over a very ulcer producing series of sandwiches, said: 'What can we possibly do to divert attention from this national issue? What can we do to take the heat off a situation that is getting out of hand?' Pathetically, the Health Insurance Bill 1973 has been brought on with a time scale for debate which will, after the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has given his second reading speech, mean presumably that there will be one, two or five minutes for the Opposition to respond to it, and then it will be guillotined. 
Government members - Too long. 
Four members of the Labor Party said: 'Too long'. That attitude is why the Government will be tipped out of office. Government supporters thought they could wear the jackboots, but they have gone too far. By acting in this way they have brought jackboot politics to Australia and this has outraged public opinion and has outraged opinion in this House. Yet they have not yet learned their lesson. What is the purpose of this exercise that has been brought on? When the Minister for Social Security brought this Bill in he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'If the Opposition rejects this Bill we will regard it as a major Bill and we will take the Opposition to a double dissolution.' 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to do something unusual? May I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  when his second reading speech on this Bill was prepared and typed? 
I thank the Minister for his reply. It makes the situation even more extraordinary, because if the speech was typed 2 weeks ago why was I not given a copy? Why was the Bill suddenly brought on tonight? The hundreds of thousands of people who are listening to this debate on the radio must be confounded when they turn on their radio and listen to a health debate, a debate identical to the debate conducted last year. The challenge of the Opposition to the Government for a double dissolution is the biggest political news for many years. The debate on it was in full flight before the suspension of the sitting, and obviously this side of the House was annihilating the Government in the debate. So over dinner there was a hurried consultation on how the Government could divert the listening audience away from it tonight. During dinner time television programs were all obsessed with this biggest political news. And what did the Government do? It has brought in 2 Bills aged 1973, which have not been reprinted, just to take up the whole time tonight. 
I, as the Opposition spokesman on health and social security, have been challenged to deliver the health policy of the Opposition. I said that the Minister was a good guy, and he is, but in this sense he must have been really joking to expect me in 7 minutes to deliver the health policy of the Opposition. I believe that the Minister has made a fool of himself tonight, because he is a good guy and he has been a fall guy. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  tonight searched for somebody and said: Please get us out of a jam. Can somebody not go on and filibuster for an hour or two?' The Minister is the fall guy. He has brought in a discredited Bill for a discredited scheme which this Parliament knocked out last year. Why has he brought it in tonight? He had the grounds for a double dissolution. He has them now. He has not used them. One wonders why he has been so stupid as to have been hoodwinked by his colleagues. 
The introduction of this Bill tonight is, I believe, part of the dirty tricks campaign of the Australian Labor Party which has mani fested itself in recent days. I would like to trace the history of this particular health scheme. When the Opposition announces its health scheme, which I undertake will be next week, it will be seen that it is not a scheme, as the Minister's alleged scheme is, concerned purely with funding. The Labor Party is obsessed with funding, with how to finance a health scheme. That is not what a health scheme is. A health scheme is caring about the health of the Australian people and how to prevent people becoming sick. I have the Opposition's draft health scheme in my hand. It contains 120 paragraphs. Does the Labor Party expect me to announce that tonight? It will be announced at the appropriate time by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as part of the campaign. It will be a real health scheme, one that concerns itself with the health of the Australian people. There is hardly anything in the so-called Hayden health scheme that directs itself towards sick people. The scheme is obsessed with insurance and the funding aspects of it. 
Let us trace the history of the scheme. It is an amusing story. The Bills were defeated in the Senate last year. Then an amended version of the Minister's health scheme started to appear around the place. I do not like reading from smuggled or leaked documents, but I have one in my hand which, frankly, has been leaked from 6 to 7 different sources. Honourable members on this side of the House have been literally deluged with copies. The document states: 
I enclose . . . 
Who the T is we do not know because it is not signed-  a summary of the proposed amendments to the universal health insurance program, together with a copy of the present Health Insurance Bill. 
It enumerates the amendments that somebody on that side of the House wants. It was addressed to the people at the meeting, and it was presented to the National Standing Committee on Private Hospitals at a meeting last week. It continues: 
You mentioned some amendments concerned with machinery provisions for access to records etc., and the Minister had indicated that he is happy to consider amendments to these sections or accept an amendment to them in the Senate. 
At the conclusion of the meeting, I am informed reliably, several if not all of the representatives there said they would not have a bar of the Hayden health scheme, even with amendments. When they said that, the officers present said 2 extraordinary things. They said: We want the copies of those documents back'. One copy was literally snatched from the hands of one of the delegates. 
Open government. Another person who was at the meeting said that he heard an extraordinary statement by the Minister's representative, and it went along these lines: 'If any of you people say that a meeting occurred here today we will deny that such a meeting occurred'. What sort of a government is this? The thing has reached scandalous stages because similar approaches have been made to the health funds. I have not time to devote myself to this subject, but my colleague and friend from Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  my friend from Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  or my friend from Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  will deal with this matter if we have time. We will not divide oh this matter, as much as we would like to, because we still have a precious half an hour in which to show to the listening audience the contempt with which we regard this move. On the question of the secret meetings and the amendments, this gem appeared in this morning's 'Canberra Times' about the new proposal being put to the people: 
A spokesman for the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  criticised  Dr Deeble  today for having exceeded his brief. 
The spokesman said that  Dr Deeble,  a special adviser to the Department of Social Security, had no authority to commit the Minister - as he had done in the document . . . 
Presumably the document which I have in my hand is the document referred to-  to proposed amendments to the scheme. 
The proposals in the document were  Dr Deeble's  and not  Mr Hayden's,  he said. 
What sort of a government is this? This document has been circulated. Men were asked to come from each State to a meeting in Melbourne. It was addressed by  Dr Deeble  and MrCorrigan. They behaved in this extraordinary way. I have in writing that certain amendments would be considered by the Minister. Telephone calls have been made by the health funds. I have a statement authorised to be made by  Mr Jack  Cade. Then this morning, because the heat in the kitchen got too great, the Minister or one of his officers authorised a disowning of the statements by the officers to whom I have referred. No Minister worth his salt would have allowed question time to pass today or this Parliament to continue today without confirming or denying the ratting on his own officers. 
I think that this exercise tonight has been absolutely fruitless as far as the Government is concerned. It has denied listeners the right to hear a debate on national issues and has diverted the debate on to health. But I think that the Government is a born loser because, even by this desperate last throw attempt of introducing these pathetic Bills dated 1973 - it has not even updated the Bill - it has disgraced itself completely. We on this side of the House totally oppose these 2 Bills as we opposed them last year. I repeat that we will not divide, to save time and to allow colleagues in the Country Party and in my Party to discredit further this contemptible attempt by the Government to divert debate from a national issue - a big political crisis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bills. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Did he mislead the House on 2 occasions last Thursday evening? Was the first when he said that his second reading speech on the hastily reintroduced health Bills was written and typed 'a fortnight ago'? Secondly, did the senior civil servant approach the representatives of private hospitals last week 'on his own initiative' - to quote the Minister - or did that civil servant act as the Minister's request and with the Minister's authority? 

 - Mr Speaker, are you going to permit that hypocrite from . . . I refrain from mentioning the seat which appears in the Hansard record. The Hansard record continues: 
More subdued - 
I do not care. He ought to be damned. 
He' referring to the honourable member for 
The Government came into office on a promise of open government. Open government connotes honesty, integrity and responsibility. The purpose of my raising this matter of public importance today is to declare that by its actions the Government is not for open government. That is precisely why it now finds itself facing the situation of a double dissolution. I say that it is a Government which is closed, secretive, deceitful, irresponsible, dishonest and dishonourable. Those are harsh adjectives which responsible people should not use lightly. I suggest that their use is justified. I am speaking now in particular about the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
I have been given to understand that last week the Minister for Social Security authorised two of his senior civil servants to negotiate with the National Standing Committee on Private Hospitals and the private health funds about amendments to his so-called health plan. I have also been given to understand that those negotiations failed - that they were rejected by the Committee, which met in Melbourne. I have already detailed to the House the extraordinary behaviour that took place at that meeting and the allegations that the civil servants declared that it was a secret meeting, that if anybody suggested that the meeting had been held it would be denied that a meeting had been held and that all documents which had been circulated and which committed the Minister to a certain course of action were asked to be returned. In fact, I have also been informed that one document was literally snatched from a member of the Committee who was reluctant to give it up. These are facts,  Mr Speaker.  Such a meeting did occur. There are documents to indicate that it did occur with the Minister's authority and approval. 
A disclaimer came from the Minister's office or from the Minister that the officer involved exceeded his brief and that he did not act with the authority of the Minister. Even that disclaimer or denial was not made in the manly, responsible way in which a Minister is expected to behave. The denial appeared in the 'Canberra Times' of 4 April. It reads: 
A spokesman for the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  criticised  Dr Deeble  today for having exceeded his brief. 
The spokesman said that  Dr Deeble,  a special adviser to the Department of Social Security, had no authority to commit the Minister - as he had done in the document - to proposed amendments to the scheme. 
The proposals in the document were  Dr Deeble's  and not  Mr Hayden's  he- 
That is the spokesman - said. 

 Dr Deeble had presented the document to a meeting of 3 people - 
Did the spokesman deliberately mislead the Canberra Times', because I have been given to understand that there were not 3 people at the meeting but at least 12 people representing the private hospitals - including a representative of private nursing homes, with the object of canvassing their opinion of his proposed amendments to the scheme. 
It is extraordinary that when I challenged the Minister in this House that evening he said, as reported at page 1085 of Hansard, 'It was made clear in the newspapers this morning', which means that he attaches himself to the remarks of the spokesman, which I believe are contemptible in that they disown a member of the Minister's Department and secondly give inaccurate information. That kind of conduct is not open government. It is deceitful and it is dishonest. It is dishonourable for a Minister publicly to disown one of his senior civil servants. 
Let us look at the history of the so-called Hayden or Labor health scheme. In the middle of last year there was a Green Paper which put forward certain proposals. Discussion was held on it. Later in the year a White Paper appeared containing the Labor Party's health proposals. Still later in the year - in November - 2 Bills were finally brought into this House with further changes. So there were 3 changes to the so-called Hayden health scheme in the one year. I do not blame the Minister for that. That shows receptivity to public opinion. The Bills that finally came into this Parliament were rejected by the parties on this side of the House and in the Senate. Before they were put to a vote the Minister made a threat to the Opposition that the rejection of these Bills would cause a double dissolution. 
Not because of the Bills. It is happening because of the Government's conduct - its arrogance and use of jackboot tactics. That is why a double dissolution will occur and not because of the rejection of the health Bills. The Labor Party chickened out on its threat to cause a double dissolution. In this House last December I challenged the Government to have a double dissolution on this legislation. But the Government resiled from that threat. Statements were made by the Minister for Social Security and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to this effect: 'It is obvious that the Opposition will not allow the health Bills to be passed. We will think up a new health plan'. 
The Minister travelled overseas to try to obtain some more information and new ideas. Following his return, the next thing we heard about was this secret meeting held in Melbourne - a meeting that never was, apparently, as it was supposed never to have occurred and its occurrence was to be denied. 
Certain proposals were put to private hospitals and subsequently to health funds to the effect that the Hayden Bills, which were introduced into this House in December, would be amended massively. Statements to that effect have been published in the newspapers. I do not have time to go into that aspect. But these proposals would mean a fundamental change to the Minister's health scheme. These massive amendments would change the whole character of the so-called Hayden health scheme. These are the proposals which, as late as last week, the Government was trying to sell to the private hospitals and health funds. 
The extraordinary events of last Thursday night then occurred. This House was in the middle of a debate on the Appropriation Bills, which is a terribly important debate as the defeat of those Bills could cause - a double dissolution of the 2 Houses of Parliament. At 8 p.m. last Thursday, without any warning being given to anyone, including the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and myself, the health Bills were reintroduced - dated, I might say, 1973. This action was obviously something thought up by the Labor Party that day. The Government reintroduced those health Bills as a panic measure and as a political measure, because of the changed political situation. 
I was prompted to ask the Minister a question before I spoke on the Bills. I quote from page 1079 of last Thursday's Hansard. I said: 

 Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to do something unusual? May I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  when his second reading speech on this Bill was prepared and typed? 
The Minister for Social Security replied: About a fortnight ago . . . .' He then went on to say that because of the condensation of his second reading speech it was not ready until earlier that day. I doubt whether that is a true statement. I believe that the Minister acted on impulse to try to give the impression that the introduction of the health Bills was something that had been in the traps for a long time. He was in a dilemma that evening. As I said, he obliged the Government, in its panic, by bringing the health Bills on again quickly to get the Government out of a jam. The dilemma the Minister was in was that, if he had answered my question When did you have this second reading speech prepared and typed?' by saying 'Today', he would have exposed the panic stricken way in which his Government had brought the health Bills on for debate. But, if the Minister answered that he had the second reading speech prepared and typed 2 days before last Thursday or 2 weeks before, as he did - he said it had been prepared a fortnight before - I would ask him, as I do now, these questions: why he did not obey the conventions and the courtesies that have prevailed in this House since it was created, of giving the Opposition spokesman a copy of his second reading speech? 
Because he did not have one. I thank my friend the honourable member for Kooyong for that interjection. Why did the Minister not update the Bills? The Bills were still dated 1973. If the second reading speech was prepared 2 weeks earlier, and the intention was to introduce the Bills 2 weeks earlier, why did the Government not change the date on the Bills? If the Minister had intended 2 weeks previously to reintroduce those Bills last Thursday, why did he permit his officers to be in Melbourne negotiating with the private hospitals to change his scheme? If the Minister had intended to introduce the Bills last Thursday, it was pointless to try to have massive amendments made to the Bills and for his officers to go to Melbourne to try to persuade the private hospitals and the health funds to accept those proposed amendments. 
I will speak a little more on this question of the meeting of officers of the Department of Social Security and the private hospitals and health funds. It is obvious that the meeting took place. I ask the Minister - I give him a fair chance to answer the charges that I put to him now when he replies - these questions: Was the second reading speech prepared and typed 2 weeks ago? If so, why was I not given a copy of that second reading speech? Why was the Opposition not given notice that the Minister was to introduce these Bills? Why did the Government have to suspend Standing Orders quickly to introduce these Bills? Why were the Minister's officers negotiating for changes with the private hospitals and health funds in Melbourne? 
I am given to understand that at least 12 people attended the meeting in Melbourne and that they were addressed by 2 senior and highly respected civil servants of the Minister's Department -  Dr Deeble  and  Mr Dennis  Corrigan, 2 men whose integrity is unchallenged and who have utter respect from everyone who knows them. A report I have of that meeting, which has been confirmed by several people, is that  Dr Deeble  indicated that the Minister had asked that the group be called together to discuss the proposed amendments. I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is that true or false? Secondly,  Dr Deeble  said that he had spoken to the Minister, who had not quite decided on the question whether the air fares of the delegates would be paid. Is that true or false? Next,  Dr Deeble  replied that the Minister had indicated that he would be free and willing to meet the committee on the following day and at any time the committee nominated; the Minister would fly anywhere. If the Minister was prepared to fly anywhere to discuss the very amendments that were put to that meeting, how could he the next day in the 'Canberra Times' deny that the spokesmen had any authority from him to act? 

 Mr Corrigan went on to say that he had instructions from the Minister, with whom he had been in contact, that this meeting had never taken place and that he must ask all those attending to return the documents that they had been handed that morning. I ask the Minister: Is that true or false? I ask the Minister: Was a bribe offered to the private hospitals, that if they accepted the recommendations of the Minister's officers the fourth table would be approved by the Government immediately? Is that true, or is it false? Last Thursday culminated with the introduction of the Bills. I am sorry to have to do this to the Minister for Social Security - I genuinely am - but when a Minister makes those kinds of statements to the national Parliament I believe that the Parliament and the people are entitled to an explanation. 
I conclude as I began: This incident has left a nasty taste in the mouths of people who observed it. The Opposition want to know whether the meeting was held. If so, are the allegations that are coming out of the meeting correct? I ask the Minister to state categorically whether those officers had his authority to go to Melbourne, to address the meeting and to put the amendments in his name. Was he prepared to meet the people attending that meeting? Was he prepared to fly anywhere in order to meet them? Was his second reading speech on the health Bills prepared and typed 2 weeks before the introduction of those Bills? These are the questions to which I think a responsible Opposition demands, and has a right to demand, answers from a Government that calls itself an open Government. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Mr Speaker,  can I raise a matter of procedure? We were under the impression that there is a resolution of the House that you leave the chair at 6.15 p.m. Can you give us some guidance? 
 I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and I thank the House. We are now about to enter the second of three historic debates which feature the opening of this Twenty-ninth Parliament. This debate is on the Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973 and the Health Insurance Bill 1973 which represent the so-called Labor health scheme. I want listeners to this debate to know at the outset that notwithstanding the momentous importance of this debate the Government in its unabated arrogance and its posture of contempt for this Parliament and all of its institutions has, by the force of its meagre numbers, decreed by use of the guillotine that this entire debate which affects every living Australian and indeed all Australians yet to be born will be concluded in just over 2 hours. The most ruthless example of Tammany Hall methods, the most contemptible modus operandi of the unscrupulous trade union boss and the incredible rules of that beloved Irishman named Rafferty have all been called into play by this panic stricken Government in its manic desire for self destruction. 
This is a new Parliament with 17 new members in this House - democratically elected by more than 500,000 people on 18 May - who will be denied the opportunity to debate this fantastically important issue. I said a moment ago that this is one of 3 historic debates. I used the word 'historic' advisedly because it would appear that an inevitable consequence of these debates will be an event which is provided for in our Constitution - a joint sitting of both Houses of the national Parliament. 
MrDuthie  -  And we will clean you up in that too. 
Even the lay Methodist minister from Wilmot cannot stop being arrogant in this situation. I should like to remind him that this is a House of Parliament democratically elected and by this tactic the Government is denying the rights of every member of this House, including the 17 new ones, to talk about an issue that affects every Australian now living and every Australian to be born. If either Bill is rejected or both of these Bills are rejected by the Senate the grounds are then provided for a momentous and historic occasion. Yet we are told - not only members on this side of the House but also the newly elected Australian Labor Party members - like little children in primary school that we must conclude all our arguments on this momentous issue in just 2 hours. That is an act of a government which wishes to show in clear and unequivocal terms that it regards the parliamentary process as a farce. I have the unanimous support of both parties sitting behind me in this House and the members of both parties who sit in Opposition in the Senate that we will go to the barricades - any barricades the Government wishes to mount before us - to fight these Bills and to prevent the Labor health scheme being inflicted on the people of Australia. 
The attitude of the independent senators of course will be made clear at the appropriate time but I want the Government to know on behalf of the joint Opposition the depth of our resistance. We do this realising the full political implications of our stance. We do it not to try to secure some political point or victory because that would be pointless at this time in the political scene. We do this as a matter of principle wearing the full garb of a responsible Opposition because we sincerely believe that if these Bills are passed they will represent a disaster to the health of the Australian people, present and future.If sections of the pro-Labor Press want to label us as obstructionist and if the Labor apologists in this socalled Press gallery again want to accuse me of being non-progressive or of over-reacting in opposing this scheme, if the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  or his Leader want to repeat their threats about the dire consequences of our continued opposition, let them do it. 
We will accept those consequences whatever they are because the real issue here, and the only important thing, is how the people who become sick or injured, who are old or who suddenly contract a disease which takes away their health, are treated. That is the only important issue before this House at the moment. No one can be guaranteed good health for ever. Even this Labor Government cannot promise that we shall not grow old. No one or nothing except perhaps fate can change the direction of the motor car driven by the fool or the drunk which can decimate the future hopes of an innocent pedestrian. 
Even medical science cannot guarantee us permanent protection from the predatory virus or the killer diseases of cancer and of the heart. These are the things which this debate is all about. 
I hasten to add that 1 am not suggesting that the Minister or his Party in introducing this scheme do not have the same basic concern about these human values as we have on this side of the House. Of course they have. But we believe that in their sincere but misguided way the result they will achieve will be opposite to the result they want in the same way as their sincere attempts to 'improve' our way of life in the 18 months in which they have been in office have resulted in Australia being reduced to near chaos and disaster. 
Will the Minister deny that the country is not near chaos or disaster? I would suggest he might confer with his colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who is reported as having an entirely different view on the state of the country. But perhaps this debate on the health scheme will prove to be even more historic than the debate on the other 2 issues because there is a unique circumstance accompanying this debate. The electoral Bills are self-contained. If passed at a joint sitting of both Houses they will become law, and if they withstand challenge, are binding and operable on the Australian people. 
However, these 2 health Bills we are now debating to implement the health scheme are not self-contained. They need complementary legislation. They need other Bills to be passed to provide money to pay for the scheme and those bills were not the subject of the double dissolution. Presuming that those complementary Bills meet the same fate as I hope these 2 Bills will meet, then that can truly produce an occasion of great history for this nation. The Government knows this and yet without consultation with the medical profession since the election, without consultation with the private hospitals, the States, the private health funds or with anybody else associated with the delivery of the health care system, the Government, with the persistence of the stupid, is pursuing this course of possible no return. It would lie a different proposition if the Government had a so-called mandate for this scheme - whatever mandate means. Perhaps the Minister who follows me in this debate might enlighten mc about what is a mandate. 
The honourable member for Casey in his usual excitable way interjects. He is as pathetic as his Minister.  His  Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
The people of Australia have endorsed the objectives of such a program at 2 consecutive elections. 
That is absolute rubbish. 
Gallup polls show that of people having an opinion 56 per cent reject the Labor health scheme out of hand and only 44 per cent of people support it. Almost every professional body in this country associated with the health care delivery system- 
Let the Methodist lay preacher from Wilmot be on record with that Christian interjection. Everybody has condemned the scheme - all the associations of doctors, specialists, general practitioners, surgeons, private hospitals, nursing homes, public hospitals, the State governments, Catholic hospitals, the national conference of Junior Chambers of Commerce and almost all State Ministers of Health. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  looks amused. Perhaps he would like to reiterate by telling us on this side of the House who the hell does support the Labor health scheme. 
There is not a responsible organisation which does support it. The list is endless. For the Minister to state that he has endorsement for this crazy scheme is sheer humbug. I thought it was significant of the arrogance of the Minister and of the Government when the Minister, in his second reading speech said: 
The Government recognises that the successful operation of its program is dependent upon the cooperation of the medical profession, State governments and their hospital authorities and private hospitals. I wish to assure honourable members that it is the Government's desire that co-operation and mutual understanding be achieved. To this end I would be happy to respond to proposals for discussions on the program with representatives of these bodies. 
Why has the Minister not had those discussions since the elections? He is aware of the double dissolution techniques. The Minister can squeeze these 2 Bills through by the force of numbers. When this legislation has been passed, does the Minister then intend to stand over these organisations, all of which now condemn and oppose this scheme with all their strength? Does he intend to stand over them and bring in his scheme in that way? The Labor apologists will no doubt level , the charge of obstructionism at the Opposition. To this I reply: The Opposition has a viable health scheme which was enunciated before the recent elections - a scheme which cares for the sick people and is not obsessed only with funding. It is a scheme which is designed to give 'the best of medical care, to maintain costs and not to regard the Treasury coffers as some bottomless pit into which some mystical goose continues to lay golden eggs. We have conceded that there are deficiencies in the present health scheme brought about by changing conditions which inevitably occur in a dynamic and growing society. If the Minister wishes to introduce the Opposition health policy, which has been commended by most of the organisations which I have quoted as being opposed to the Labor Party health scheme, we will expedite its passage. I have said before and I repeat now that there are some features incorporated in these Bills with which we concur in principle. I mention the increased financial assistance to public hospitals, the proposals to enable visitors to Australia to participate in the scheme on the basis of an appropriate premium, the concept of special .medical benefits for unusual or complex procedures, the right of doctors to appeal against decisions of committees of inquiry, the proposed increase of payments to private hospitals and the concept that pensioners and receivers of subsidised health benefits will be integrated into the scheme and be entitled to equal benefits with all other members of that scheme. We agree with all those refinements in principle. However, all of these .refinements can be introduced into this Parliament as amendments to existing legislation and if this is done I am authorised to say on behalf of the Opposition that we assure the Government that their passage will be expedited. However I repeat, we will not have a bar of this so-called Hayden or Labor health scheme because once it is implemented it will change the whole nature of medical care in Australia and will, in fact, produce an egg which a future government will find impossible to unscramble. Once this country has the Labor health scheme it has got it for ever. The Opposition will oppose it. 
In answer to the interjection of the Minster for Manufacturing Industry, we will go to any barricades that the Government wishes to mount on it, as we promised to do in November on this issue. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Social Security chickened out on the challenge that we issued in this House in November. That is on record in Hansard. If these Bills pass, Australia will have the Labor health scheme for ever, as Britain is now finding to its cost, as New Zealand is how finding to its cost and as Canada is now finding to its cost. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, I come now to the basic reasons why we are unequivocal in our opposition. Labor's health scheme would do 6 things which we sincerely believe would be bad for the people of this country. Firstly, it would lower the quality of medical care for Australian families; it would increase total costs for the Government and thus for all taxpayers; it would increase total costs for the majority of taxpayers, because they could only maintain the present quality of their health care by additional heavy commitments for private insurance after having paid the 1.35 per cent super tax; it would reduce freedom of choice and it would jeopardise the future of religious, private and country hospitals. In fact, I would go further. I am sure that all my friends in the Country Party would agree that it would destroy the future of all small private and country hospitals. Finally, by design and intent, it would be the first stage of nationalisation of health care in Australia. 
In dealing with these aspects, I am conscious that I am repeating some of the arguments made by myself and other speakers in the December debate but, unlike the Government, we recognise that this is a new Parliament and that there are elected representatives of the people here who have not necessarily heard those arguments or been allowed to participate in them. Therefore, I reiterate some of them. 
Firstly, we claim that the Labor scheme will lower the quality of medical care for Australian families. For the purpose of making this point I would like to divide medical care into two of its main components - hospitals and medical practitioner treatment. I deal first with hospitals. This must be discussed in relation to both public and private hospitals. Let us see what the Hayden scheme will do immediately to public hospitals. These Bills entitle every person in Australia to free treatment without a means test in the public hospitals of Australia at standard ward level. Such admission at the moment is restricted to people on lower incomes, to pensioners, .to casualty cases and to those people suffering from diseases the treatment of which demands special and sophisticated forms of attention. For the sake of accuracy, I acknowledge that special circumstances obtain in some areas, for example, Queensland. But these public hospitals are already used to full capacity. This Bill, if passed, immediately entitles literally millions of additional persons access to immediate admission. That is a simple arithmetical fact, one that I am sure would be absorbed by the Minister who follows me. Public hospitals in the country are now full. This Bill will entitle to admission millions of other Australians who are not entitled to free immediate admission. The result is mind boggling. This simply means that overnight the already fully utilised public hospitals will be expected to cope with an enormous additional demand. Those kinds of people whom the Labor Party supposedly champions, who now have preferential treatment for free and immediate admission to a public hospital, would find themselves competing for public hospital accommodation with the more privileged Australians. 
How can the honourable member for Prospect look the pensioner, the person who is not well endowed, in the eye and say: 'Now you have free and immediate admission to a public hospital. As soon as we bring our Bill in you will have to stand in a queue with the millions of other Australians'? This is supposed to be a Labor Government that cares for the underdog. What hypocrisy! What humbug this is for somebody to interject on that point. I have undertaken a quick survey in the city of Melbourne on the public hospital situation. In metropolitan Melbourne there is already a waiting list in the major general public hospitals of from 6 months to 18 months for non-urgent surgery and other treatment. How does the honourable member for Prospect, who is a medical practitioner, explain why, if already there is a waiting list in the public hospitals in metropolitan Melbourne he wishes a Bill to be passed which will give to the people of Toorak, Balwyn and Camberwell free access to a public hospital? What is going to happen to the poorer people who now cannot get into the already over-crowded and over-used public hospitals of Melbourne and Sydney? I would love to hear that kind of explanation from the honourable member. There is already a waiting list in these general hospitals of up to 6 to 18 months but the occupancy in all the public hospitals is upwards of 90 per cent. That is an extraordinarily high figure and places enormous strain on admittance officers when making the decision whether to admit patients with a reasonably urgent need. The honourable member for Prospect is a doctor. Let us assume for a moment that he is an admittance officer - God forbid - in one of the public hospitals in Sydney. Let us assume that the hospital has an occupancy of over 90 per cent. A government then passes a Bill which allows every Australian - it does not matter whether he is a millionaire - immediate access to the hospital. 
What kind of dilemma does that place the honourable member in? What sort of impossible situation is that? Does not the honourable member understand the elementary facets of mathematics or fourth form arithmetic? 
The casualty departments of those major hospitals have a work load which is constantly increasing. For example, I am told that the Alfred Hospital in Melbourne is now receiving 5,000 people a month into casualty of whom more than 50 per cent are attending mainly for consultation between 6 p.m. and midnight. The work of the outer perimeter public hospitals has already taken on a heavy, new burden with road traffic cases as ambulances are now stopping at these hospitals to deliver casualties rather than take them to the main public hospitals in the centre of the city. It is therefore onto this already over-worked system that the Labor Government now wants to impact an additional work load literally entitling millions of additional people to immediate admission. It is therefore a fact that there is no possible way by which the Labor health scheme can be introduced without conscripting the private hospitals either out of existence or into public service. The more I examine the actions of the Government the more I am persuaded that is its very intention. It wants nationalisation of medicine; it wants socialisation of the entire system of the delivery of health care in this country. 
This additional demand on public hospitals must be heavy for 2 reasons. The first reason is that it is human nature for a person to conclude: 'Well, if the Government is adding to my taxes to provide me and my family with free hospitalisation I may as well use it and get my money's worth.' On this basis I say that the Minister should answer this question: Does the Minister now deny that in Melbourne alone after the introduction of this scheme he will need to provide 1,000 additional beds in metropolitan Melbourne for standard ward treatment? He has never denied this claim. 
 Would the honourable gentleman like to tell me from where he will pluck 2,000 beds per night? 
You said 2,000. 
Will the honourable gentleman tell me from where he will pluck them? Will he pluck them out of thin air overnight? I would concede that the honourable gentleman has far greater talents than I have, but 1 would not be prepared to concede that he is that good. Secondly, many people will find that they have no option but to go to a public hospital and have public ward treatment if they are sick because they will not be able to afford the additional heavy financial commitments for private insurance in an intermediate or private hospital bed, over and above what this Government intends to take out of them in its 1.35 per cent supertax. 
The simple arithmetic of this equation is devastating. There will just not be enough beds in public hospitals to accommodate new demands. I will tell the honourable gentleman from Prospect what are the only 3 possible solutions available to his Government. The first solution is that new public hospitals will have to be built. This is clearly impossible and absurd in the time scale because a public hospital cannot be built overnight. The second possible solution is that the waiting time for admissions to public hospital beds for nonurgent cases will be considerably extended. I am informed and I ask the Minister or the honourable member who will follow me to deny this fact: Is it not true that in the United Kingdom scheme people with such non-urgent problems have to wait up to 3 or 4 years and beyond for the treatment of varicose veins, hernias, non-urgent gynaecological procedures and like complaints? 
The third and most probable solution would have an even more disastrous effect. This is that Australia's magnificently run private hospitals will have to be compelled, invited, persuaded, induced or seduced - choose your own term - to give up some of their intermediate or private beds and become part public hospitals. To understand the total ramifications of this course it is necessary to turn to the provisions of the Bill. I refer to the insidious Part 3 and in particular clause 34 of this Bill which allows the Minister complete authority, when a private hospital applies to him to offer some of its beds as public beds, to decide how many beds in such a hospital he wants as public beds. It gives him complete power to fix a sum, a supplementary daily bed payment. Clause 34 (4) of the Bill provides that this shall be at a rate fixed by the Minister. That clause makes no provision at all for the updating of that rate and provides no opportunity for that hospital to appeal against the Minister's determination. In other words, the whole thrust of clause 34 puts the private hospitals of this country at the mercy of a Minister in Canberra. This means in simple language that as soon as a private hospital offers to the Minister a proportion of its bed capacity for use as public ward beds it can virtually place itself under the control of a Minister in Canberra. It is bad enough for the private sector to be at the control of a Minister in Canberra. But under a socialist Minister dedicated to the destruction of private hospitals it would be catastrophic. 
 The significance of this can be better understood if seen in the light of the present Minister's intent. On 6 September 1972 he was quoted in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' as saying:  the Labor Party is a Socialist Party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned is the establishment of public enterprise; 
Secondly, his colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  was quoted on 23 July 1972 as saying: 
Private hospitals and private nursing homes are irrelevant to the Labor Party's concept of a national health scheme and the vast majority of people could easily be catered for in the public and hospital sector. 
The honourable member for Kingston interjected. He is a doctor. Why has he not got the guts to go on record like the Minister for 
Social Security, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and say that he is a socialist and declare where he stands on the question of private enterprise in the health care delivery system? Can he see any future for private hospitals in Australia? He knows that in his own State 70 per cent or more of people who are ill or injured are catered for by the magnificently run private hospitals. Let him get up in this House or in his own State and declare where he stands on this socialist plan. 
The Minister for Health, in answer to a question without notice from myself on 6 December last year, clearly stated - I ask the House to listen to this devastating statement of Labor policy - thai he believed that the future of medical care in Australia will see at least 80 per cent of all Australians attending doctors on government salaries or at government-owned hospitals, with only 20 per cent still being interested in attending private practice, going to a doctor in a private capacity or attending a private hospital. As I said at the outset, these men on the other side of the House are socialists. They are proud to be socialists. They sincerely believe that nationalised health is in the best interests of the country. We on this side of the House categorically refuse to accept that. In answer to interjections such as that by the honourable member for Kingston, I point out that we do take a progressive attitude to the delivery of health care. We do not want to see the dead hand of socialism, which has ruined everything that this Labor Government has touched since it came to office in this country, applied to our health system. If the Labor Party is to try, and try as it might, to meddle, with its socialistic attitude, with medicine it will find the Opposition intractably opposed to it. We will be proud to oppose such an outrageous suggestion. 
I would ask the newly appointed deputy Government Whip to wake up out of his slumber at the beginning of my speeches rather than waking up half way through them. If he had done so on this occasion he would have heard me answer that interjection in the first couple of paragraphs of my speech. We categorically refuse to accept Labor's proposal. We have a viable alternative scheme which still allows initiative, dedication and aspirations for high professional performance to be brought out. 
The question might fairly be asked: 'Why would private hospitals be foolish enough to allow themselves to be partly or wholly nationalised in this way?' Why should they make such an offer of beds to the Minister, which is in itself an act of self-destruction? The answer is simple; they will be forced to, because they will be confronted with the uneconomic situation of having many empty beds. There are 2 reasons for this. I have mentioned the first, namely, that many who now use private hospitals will go to public hospitals because their compulsory taxes will entitle them to do so. The second reason is that very few people will be able to afford private health insurance over and above that provided by the 1.35 per cent super tax on taxable income. I remind people listening to this debate that this 1.35 per cent super tax will apply not only to the breadwinner but also to a wife who might be working. Also it will apply to every Queenslander who already has free hospitalisation provided by the Queensland Government. The private hospitals will therefore be forced to go begging to the Minister with the pathetic plea: 'Take part of us over'. This must result in the end of autonomous administration of private hospitals. It must mean that any private hospital which makes any offer to the Minister is playing fly to his spider. 
There is, however, another equally if not more serious consequence of private hospitals , becoming part or mainly public hospitals. The greater the number of private hospital beds which become public, the fewer will be the number of patients who can be treated by the doctor of their own choice in a hospital. For example, I quote the Mercy Hospital in Melbourne. This is a great private hospital with fine traditions and a magnificent record of service to the community. It has 200 beds. If half, say, of these beds become public beds, does the Minister seriously ask us to believe that the patients in those beds will be able to be attended by a doctor of their own choice? That would be an absurd proposition. 
As far as the treatment of doctors is concerned, if we have a virtual end of the private hospital, if the growth of 'free' - I use the term with inverted commas - community health centres employing salaried doctors continues, if specialists are forced to work for the 
Government on a salary as they are now being forced in Canberra- 
The Minister ought to know a lot about what is going on in Canberra. If the stated wishes of the Minister for Health are expressed in action - that 80 per cent of Australians will be attending salaried doctors - this will be the end of the doctor-patient relationship which we believe is the very foundation of good medical care. 
The new second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security revealed yet further dangers to the integrity of the medical profession. In his speech the Minister spoke very vaguely about the right of a person to choose his own private doctor and be eligible for Commonwealth benefits. The use of the words 'provided that the schedule fees are charged' is highly significant. Does this mean a participating doctors' scheme? 
Well, for heaven's sake, we are now in 1974 debating 2 health Bills. I would not have thought that what  Mr Gorton  or anyone else said in 1972 would be relevant to this debate in 1974. 
This rhetorical question of mine has made the normally excitable member for Casey more excitable. I suspect that this is something which is embarrassing  to  the Australian Labor Party. I challenge the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, who is to follow me- 
Well, I challenge whoever does follow me to say whether the Labor Party intends to bring about a participating doctors scheme. If it does, the Labor Party ought to declare itself now and be honest. In other words, why did the Minister use those words in his speech? If it does mean that, all doctors will be completely dependent on the Government for their total income, unless they wish to be one of the sacred 20 per cent of the Minister for Health catering for the very wealthy. I say this for 2 reasons: If you have the source of doctors' income resting solely with the Government, which I am sure is the Government's intention, if at the other end you have that amount which they can earn by a compulsory schedule of fees further determined by the Government or an instrument of the Government, and if you coerce people into forcing doctors into a bulk billing scheme with one health fund owned by the Government, that is nationalisation of doctors. That is virtually the nationalisation of medicine. 
That sort of question from a so-called informed member of this House astonishes me. Those statements of mine have been published. They are printed in the joint coalition policy. They are there for everybody to read and understand. If doctors are virtually working for a salary determined by a bureaucrat or a socialist Minister, that is nationalised medicine. Let nothing I say on this point,  Mr Acting Speaker,  reflect in any way on the hundreds of doctors in this country who choose to work for a salary, be it in a government department, at a hospital, a community health centre or whatever. I believe that these people have the same intellectual integrity and dedication as doctors who work on a fee for service basis in private practice. But why take away the right of a professional man to work on his own initiative, driven by his own incentive, stimulated by both competition and altruism to improve his knowledge and to improve his techniques and thus to care the better for sick people? Why take that away from people who want to work for themselves? This Labor Government, when faced with any kind of problem, obsessively and maniacally turns to socialism as a solution. We concede there are problems in health in Australia, but socialism and nationalisation are not the answer. We have put up an alternative answer in our health scheme which is the antithesis of socialism and is best for the Australian people. 
If this Government wishes to reduce the standards and quality of living in Australia to that of a socialist banana republic, it will nationalise the professions - not only medicine but all of them. I do not care which profession is involved - medicine, architecture, science, the law. Human nature being what it is, as soon as the rights of a professional man to practise in a free competitive society is taken away and he is forced to work in a government machine, creative achievements, ingenious new techniques, and the exploration of the perplexing problems of mankind will not be forthcoming and we all will be reduced to the level of mediocrity - 
To the level of the honourable member who made that contemptuous interjection. Let him judge everybody by his own miserable standards and not try to impact those miserable standards on us or on the Australian people. Finally, I refer to the massive cost of the scheme. At a time of raging inflation Australia needs the additional incredible cost on the public purse of a health scheme such as this like it needs a hole in the head. I have quoted a survey by Philip Shrapnel and Co Ltd, a highly respected firm, which indicates that the scheme would cost hundreds of millions of dollars more than the present scheme. This is a survey which one day the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  tried without success to refute. To my knowledge the Minister has never denied this. That survey was taken last year. With the rise in inflation since then the costs to the Australian people of the scheme today would be astronomic. Again, human nature impels us to use things if they are free, whether we need them or not. Over-utilisation of services has been a feature of the British scheme and would be a feature of the Labor scheme in this country. At this time of inflation the Opposition is looking at ways of saving taxpayers' money, not of squandering it like the Government is doing. Let the Government learn from the tragic lessons of the spiralling costs of its health scheme in the Australian Capital Territory. Let it face the fact that someone has to pay for it. We just hope that the Government recognises that the person who produces the golden egg, to whom I referred before, is the ordinary person paying income taxes. Let the Government recognise him before it kills him. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question and so give him an opportunity to correct a misleading answer which he gave to this House when he was replying to a question about nursing home benefits asked by the honourable member for Adelaide. By way of short preamble I remind the Minister that there are a great number of nursing homes in which there are thousands of elderly and sick people who are on the verge of bankruptcy. I also remind the Minister that massive wage increases for nurses and massive cost increases because of the inflationary policies of the Government have made the position of these homes intolerable. I ask the Minister simply this: Will he show his bona fides and credibility to this House by agreeing to back-date those nursing home benefits to 1 July or 1 June? If he does this, I give a guarantee that we on this side of the House will expedite such legislation. 
-1 move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the House debating the present problem of nursing home benefits and the Opposition policies on social welfare. 

 Mr Speaker, when any honourable member is on his feet in this House, at some stage or other undue emphasis is given to a point. In the heat of debate sometimes things are said which are not meant. Ministers are capable of this human failing as well as anybody. Therefore, if a Minister is on his feet and says something misrepresenting the Opposition or some other person, that is excusable and part of the game here. But when a Minister, as the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  did today, sets up a pathetic Dorothy Dixer with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and then proceeds to misrepresent me and other members of the Opposition and, indeed, the policies of the Opposition which are in black and white for him to read, that becomes a serious matter. 
I am in sympathy with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  once having occupied that position myself, and do not facetiously move for the suspension of Standing Orders. But when we are on the air at question time thousands of people are listening, and for those thousands of people to hear the Minister deliberately misrepresent people and parties is a serious matter calling for a serious response. The Minister said 2 things which were deliberately misleading and deliberately untruthful. The first was the extraordinary statement that it was the Opposition parties which delayed the increase in benefits to nursing homes. The Minister wants to lay at our door the blame for the horrific dilemma, involving financial and other problems, in which nursing homes find themselves now, because we dared call a general election. I was confounded when I heard the Minister say that. Did he expect anybody in this House to believe him? Is it true that no increases were paid to anybody during the period between the time this House rose for the double dissolution and the time it resumed? Will the Minister stand up and say that in the interregnum he was powerless to grant increases in nursing home rates? The Minister for Social Security made that cheap gibe at me, saying that I am interested only in the proprietors of nursing homes and not the people in them. 
You implied it. The reason we raised this matter today was that we do care about the people in nursing homes - the people who are sick and the 'people who are elderly. There are thousands of them in this country who, at the moment, are in some danger of literally being thrown out into the street. Because of the Minister's policies, or lack of policies, or his lack of concern, many nursing homes in Victoria have closed already. I have personally visited nursing homes in Brisbane - in the Minister's own State - which are next to having to close because of bankruptcy. I am not talking about only the privately owned nursing homes. There are hundreds of magnificently run nursing homes in this country operated by religious and philanthropic institutions which have had to meet the massive rise in costs since this Government took office. In that time they have not received any increase in nursing home benefits. The Minister for Social Security will correct me if I am wrong; but, if my memory serves me correctly, no increase has been given in nursing home benefits since we left office. 
There has been no increase since January 1973. In 18 months of mismanagement of the economy, with wage rises of 30 per cent and 40 per cent being demanded and being granted, and being supported by this Government, trie Government has not seen fit to increase nursing home benefits. One asks why? I suggest that the reason is that the Government believes that there is no place in our society for the privately run nursing homes, whether they be privately owned or conducted by a philanthropic or religious organisation. The Government wants to destroy them. The Government wants to take over such institutions in its obsessive zeal for nationalising and socialising everything. One can respect Government supporters for being socialists, but one has nothing but contempt for them if they are going to make the aged and the ill suffer for the birth of their illgotten policies. As I said at question time, if the Minister is fair dinkum, instead of coming into this House trying to take a cheap political trick by getting a lightweight from Adelaide to -ask a question about increasing nursing home benefits, he will backdate the nursing home benefits increase to 1 June. Every honourable member on this side of the House would support that proposal. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the Minister for Social Security for the second time this week. For the second time, he has arranged for one of his lightweights on the back bench to ask him a Dorothy Dix question. The Minister alleged that the Opposition and I were against the Australian Assistance Plan. On Tuesday, when the Minister was refusing to back-date benefits for nursing homes, I said: 
The Opposition's polices are responsible. We are determined not to allow pensioners to suffer because of inflation. We are determined to make sure that they do receive justice. The Minister for Social Security can hand out thousands of dollars under the Australian Assistance Plan. He can squander money on political patronage all over the country. The Minister- 
Did the honourable gentleman say: 'That is right'? 
The honourable member for Denison apparently either did not understand or did not hear me. I will repeat it. I said: 
The Minister for Social Security . . . can squander money on political patronage all over the country. 
The honourable member for Denison then interjected and said: 'That is right'. 
That is what I said all right, yes. I then said: 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  can hand out $1,000 here and $1,000 there for any kind of lightweight sports meeting. But, for some reason or other, the Minister for Social Security cannot bring himself to backdate to 1 June, as the Opposition wants, this increase in nursing home benefits to keep the aged and the sick inside homes. 
That is what I said and I stick to it. When the Minister for Social Security produced the Australian Assistance Plan to this House I said on behalf of the Opposition - the Minister was correct in quoting me - that it was a good document and that it was supported by the Opposition. I think the words I used were that it was one of the most exciting and memorable advances in social welfare ever tabled in this Parliament. I stick to that. It is. We are not arguing about the principle; we are saying that the way in which the Minister is administering the Australian Assistance Plan is now beginning to border on a national scandal. The point we are making is that it is pork barrelling political patronage- 
It is nevertheless true. 
In his answer today the Minister clearly said that I and the Opposition were against the Australian Assistance Plan. We are not against the Australian Assistance Plan. We are against the pork barrelling political patronage of the way in which it is being administered. 
In answer to the interjection by the honourable member for Robertson let me say that I have given notice that today I will be asking the Minister to come clean and tell the House exactly where these thousands of dollars have gone and for what purpose. Then I think we will be able to have a debate. 
I cannot resist the temptation to take up the time of the House for 60 seconds to put a personal point of view. I think I have the sympathy of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  but it is because of the intransigent attitude of most members of this House that what I would like to see has never been introduced. I think it is a rare piece of insanity that 127 adult members come to Canberra each week and must have high tea between 6.15 and 8 o'clock. This denies all of us the opportunity of mixing with the Canberra community, dining as civilised human beings with the diplomatic corps and senior public servants and learning something about Canberra in a civilised way. As it is now, as you would know,  Mr Speaker  - this applies to Ministers as well, unless they can get leave - we have to leave here at 6.15 if we are to dine with people with whom we want to dine, such as members of foreign embassies. 
I know that the Minister resists all forms of social intercourse, but I would like him to allow us to continue to have that privilege if we want it. Seriously, we have to leave here at 6.20; we arrive at the ambassador's home at 6.30 or 6.45; and we leave at 7.45. We have one hour for talking in a situation in which no real discussion or dialogue can take place. I make the plea that perhaps one night a week, Wednesday night, the House sit through to 8.30 and adjourn for the evening. I do not think we would lose much debating time, and 1 think it would be a much more civilised way of conducting ourselves. 
The purpose of this Bill essentially is to increase age and invalid pensions and unemployment relief to the extent of $5 a week for a single person and $6 a week for married people. Ordinarily, when the Opposition is confronted with a genuine rise in pensions, it can commend the Government for its initiative and for its humanity in improving the lot of the aged, the sick and other disadvantaged people in the country. But at this time, there can be no such commendation from the Opposition for the Government - only condemnation of its panic move to get itself out of a hole. This legislation represents one of the great pork barrelling exhibitions of this Government to try to patch up the rather extraordinary and catastrophic situation into which it has taken the economy. 
We will, of course, support these increases. It is vital that they be supported because the catastrophic rate of inflation which this Government has inflicted on the nation demands this kind of panic move. It is necessary and vital so that pensioners will not be the ones disadvantaged because of the Government's mismanagement. As a result of the policies of this Government, we have become used to talking in big figures. The first increase in pensions introduced by this Government was $1.50 a week. That figure was to be the average increase. Consequently it increased $3 a week and now it is $5 a week. As I shall show in a moment, the curve will go upwards and it will not be very long before pensioners will need to be receiving at least $80 a week to give them the kind of existence to which they are used at this time. Only 4 months ago, when the last increase of $3 a week was enacted by the Government, I foreshadowed this development. I said: 
What will happen to the pensioner next week if inflation is maintained at a rate of 13 per cent or more? What will happen to him next week, next month or in the next quarter? There will have to bo another massive increase in the pension as there is now. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  uses expressions such as: 
This is the greatest  increase  pensioners have ever received. 
Of course it is - in absolute terms. It has to be. What the Minister did not say is that inflation in this country is now raging at a rate at which it has never occurred before. This is the result of the policies of this Government. The rate of interest now, caused by this Government which is allegedly concerned with social welfare and has a social conscience, is the highest on record in Australia's history. The words of the Minister, that this is the largest increase, sounded very hollow indeed to the pensioner who listens to him. Let the Minister go with the pensioner into supermarkets; let him be with the pensioner while he or she pays his or her rent. Let the Minister ask any pensioner whether he or she is in fact any better off today than he or she was in December of 1972. The fact is that pensioners are not, as I shall illustrate by figures in a moment. 
The increase in the single pension is $5 a week, bringing it to $31 a week. That is an increase of 19 per cent. That sounds, I suppose, impressive. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The new standard rate established by this Bill will be 26 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings for the March quarter 1974, the latest quarter for which figures are available. It will be almost 25 per cent of the estimated average weekly male earnings seasonally adjusted for the June quarter of 1974. 
I know that figures are hard to understand if they are not before one, but I think that the figures that I am about to give will show the falseness of the Minister's claim and can be understood. Average weekly earnings for the March quarter 1974 seasonally adjusted were $119.10. Let us assume that there has been a 5 per cent increase in those earnings in the June quarter. In that case, the June quarter figure would be $125 a week for average weekly earnings. At a single pension rate of $31 a week, as proposed by this legislation, the pensioner receives 24.8 per cent of that $125 a week. The Minister can claim with some truth that now the Labor Party has brought pensions up to 25 per cent of those average earnings. 
-We are saying that it is 24.8 per cent. So, I concede that point. But it would be utterly stupid for anybody to assume that that position will obtain for very long. We are now moving towards the middle of the September quarter. Assuming, conservatively, another 5 per cent rise in average weekly earnings in this September quarter, average weekly earnings would rise to $131 a week of which the new single pension would be 23 per cent. Even  now that percentage has gone from 24 per cent to 23.7 per cent. 
The next increase in pensions will not be until autumn 1975. To use the Minister's own words, the next increase would not operate until the June quarter of 1975. If we make the assumption that average weekly earnings will rise by 25 per cent between the June quarter 1974 and the June quarter 1975, average weekly earnings would reach $164. 
A single age pension of $31 a week in the June quarter of next year would be only 18.9 per cent of the average weekly earnings. 
 The honourable member for Robertson has a large number of pensioners in his electorate. The honourable member is one of my favourite interjectors because he always leads with his chin. Let him go into his electorate of Robertson in the autumn of 1975 and explain to the pensioners in it how the Labor Government has reduced their pension to 18 per cent of the average weekly earnings. 
 I know that the honourable member for Robertson finds it difficult to absorb these figures. After he has read the Hansard report of my speech I challenge him to get up in this House or anywhere else- 
 The honourable gentleman says that assumes there will be no increase in the pension between now and then. Yes, it does and I said that. But I did not initiate that statement. The Treasurer said it. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said it. Has the honourable member for Robertson not read their speeches or heard them? Are we not to believe the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security? 
 Did the Minister for Social Security not say that the next increase will be in the autumn of 1975? 
-hI suggest that if honourable members opposite were to read the speech - some might have to read it twice - they might understand it. Even if average weekly earnings increased in that period by 20 per cent the $31 a week age pension would be 19.7 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The Opposition welcomes this increase, but what it really wants at this stage, what the pensioners really want at this stage and what the nation really wants at this stage is an anti-inflation program. I was amused to notice the other night - I think this has escaped the notice of most honourable members; naturally it has escaped the notice of members of the Press Gallery - that the statement in which the Treasurer announced the pension and other increases this week was headed 'Ministerial Statement- Inflation'. That is how the statement was headed; yet yesterday a senior Minister in the Government admitted that it was not not an anti-inflationary mini-Budget. Good heavens, what sort of people do we have running this country when we have the Treasurer coming into this chamber with a statement headed Inflation' and then the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  following him and saying that it was not an anti-inflation statement? I think that the 'Australian' showed great objectivity and great wisdom in calling it a whimpering little Budget and a knee-jerk reaction to something that is very serious. 
The Minister for Social Security is very fond of saying that the age pension has risen at a greater rate than the cost of living index and of saying that he can put figures down to prove it. The Minister knows, but does not say so, that the prices of food and housing, both of which commodities pensioners need, are rising much faster under the Labor Government than the consumer price index. The massive increase in the cost to pensioners of food and housing must be having quite a devastating effect on them. Social security is a priority issue with the Opposition. We said so during the last election campaign. But we did not make any promises that we had no intention of keeping, which is apparently what the Labor Government did. We warned them that we would not be increasing spending at a rapid rate, particularly on the expansion of the Public Service, public relations campaigns through the Department of Media and direct Government involvement in pipeline construction, minerals exploration and all the other beautiful, grandiose schemes about which the Government made promises. Now supporters of the Government find themselves in the position where they have to break promises that they made during the election campaign because they did not heed the warnings of the Opposition. 
Some good promises were made, including one concerning a child care program. I remind the Minister for Social Security that on 1 May this year, speaking about child care programs, he said: 
The need for such a program is emphasised by the fact that there are at present in Australia about 1.3 million children of pre-school age and that, for more than 1 in 4 of these children, there is no parent at home during working hours. Of these only 1 in every 10 attends a child care centre. ... At least 13,000 children are left totally unattended during the day. Thousands more are left to the care of brothers or sisters. Furthermore, for too many of our primary school children there is nowhere to go outside of school hours or during vacations. 
The Minister went on to say that for this reason the Labor Government would move with urgency as soon as it was re-elected. It has been re-elected but those children will now have to go without that care. I know how much the Minister sincerely wants to implement such a program but cannot. The Labor Government cannot implement this urgent program because of the devastating situation into which it has led the economy. 
The Labor Government has also broken another promise it made in the social welfare area, that is, the promise to remove the means test for persons 70 years of age and over. I have in front of me a telegram, a copy of which was no doubt sent to the Minister for Social Security, from the South Australian Public Service Association, the South Australian Government Superannuation Federation, the South Australian Government Superannuated Employees Association and the South Australian Institute of Teachers - most of which bodies I should have thought would have been Labor supporters and would have come out in support of the Labor Government during the last election campaign - expressing disenchantment with the Labor Government for welching on yet another promise that it made to them concerning fixed incomes. 
Does the Minister deny that supporting fathers have a case for assistance? Of course he does not. They have a case. But can the Government do one thing lor them at this stage? Does the Minister see any justice in a man who has been deserted by his wife and who has been left with 4 children to care for receiving no assistance under the social welfare program of the Labor Government? The Minister is willing to bring in something on this matter but he cannot do so because of the hideous mess that the Labor Government has made of the economy. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. (Quorum formed) 
We are in the process of debating the social services legislation, the main thrust of which adds S5 a week to the single age pension and  $6  a week to the married age pension and gives appropriate other increases to unemployment and sickness benefits, widows' pensions and so on. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I said that the Opposition supports this Bill and will give it quick passage. The Opposition believes that pensioners today, because of the economic policies followed by the Government, are in catastrophic trouble. In fact the Minister will testify that on Tuesday night I made him an offer on behalf of the Opposition to take the Bill that evening and to expedite its passage so that pensioners could receive the increase immediately. He informed me that there was no point in doing that because of the pay day falling due. So we agreed on this course of action of bringing it on this evening. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I pointed out how necessary and vital it is for pensioners to receive this increase and for the House to expedite it. Because of the inflation now raging in this country due to the extravagances and mismanagement of the Australian Labor Party it is vital that pensioners have this massive increase, the second this year. Only 4 months ago I made a similar speech in this House when, because of raging and rampant inflation which the Government has caused, pensioners were given a $3 a week increase. Now only 4 months later we find it necessary to give them another $5 a week. And it will go on. The next increase will have to be larger than that, and the matter will be exacerbated. 
I also made the point in response to the Minister for Social Security - some of the interjectors in the Labor Party did not seem to understand the point that I was getting at when I challenged the Minister's figures- that now the pensions would be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I conceded that that will be so as soon as this legislation is passed. In fact, they will be 24.8 per cent. But I then amde the point and developed the argument that if inflation continues at the present rate and if average weekly earnings continue to increase, by the time the pensioners receive their next increase - which, according to the Treasurer and the Minister, will be in the autumn next year - the age pension will have been reduced to 18.9 per cent of average weekly earnings, a figure lower than the percentage when the Liberal and Country Parties were voted out of office in December 1972. This simply means that, notwithstanding the grandstanding of the Minister in saying that this is the biggest increase pensioners have ever received, the fact remains that by the autumn of next year pensioners will be worse off than they were in December 1972, in spite of their massive increases. 
There seemed to be some merriment on the Labor side when I criticised the statement of the Treasurer which he made in this House last Tuesday evening. His speech was entitled 'The Inflationary Situation'. The next day in this House the Deputy Prime Minister conceded that it was not an anti-inflationary statement that the Treasurer had made. Talking about inflation, the Treasurer said this: 
I have no illusions about the magnitude, or the intractability, of the task we face. It must be obvious to all of us that, with prices and costs now rising at these rates, and with inflationary expectations now so entrenched, inflation cannot now be beaten without severe costs. It must be equally obvious that we would have preferred to avoid those costs. The plain fact is that we no longer have any real choice. 
The Treasurer said that on Tuesday night. He then read a 17-page statement announcing to the House certain measures on which the Government had decided. Yet the next day the Deputy Prime Minister said to this House that it was not an anti-inflationary statement. One wonders how pathetic the Government is when that situation is reached. 
It is not by talking about figures that we can observe the plight of the pensioners. We can talk about percentages but we do not know the plight of pensioners until we talk to them and hear how they fare when their rents are increased without supplementary assistance being increased. 
The honourable member is always so fancy with his smart alec interjections. 
The honourable member for Bowman is notorious for his smart alec witless interjections. I would like to be with him on a platform in Brisbane. 
I  will detain the House for but 60 seconds.  I  have a very strong view that we should be against wasting the time of members of the House. Therefore the Opposition will not be dividing the House on the third reading or on the associated Bills. That kind of reluctance not to divide is not to be interpreted as a lack of opposition to the Bills.  I  believe it is rather infantile to call the 127 members into this House time and again to divide. However,  I  do not want members of the Press Gallery to write, as one did the last time  I  did not call for a division, that the Opposition failed because we allowed the matter to be resolved without a vote. 

<graphic href="089131197407313_44_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407313_44_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407313_44_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
It seems as though I spend most of my time in the Parliament standing at this box and being confronted with the not unpleasant but harassed face of my friend the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  while talking about his health scheme, which is what this debate is about. The debate is on 4 Bills, all of which have as their purpose the implementation of the so-called Hayden health scheme. Two of the Bills - the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill and the Health Insurance Levy Bill - are designed to cover the collection of the money needed to finance the scheme. The third Bill is the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill, which was introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and which deals with double taxation. It is of a minor quality. The fourth Bill is the National Health Bill, which provides for amendments to the National Health Act. One might call it benefits blocking legislation. The amendments are designed to block those benefits being paid under the present scheme which would represent double payment or which would be redundant if - I use the word 'if advisedly - the Hayden health scheme does become law. 
My remarks will be relatively brief, but let that not be interpreted as meaning that my opposition to the so-called Hayden health scheme is not as intractable and intransigent as ever. The Opposition, for all it's worth, will be opposing the 4 Bills, both here and in the Senate. It will be doing so for the reasons that I have expressed before. We of the Opposition believe that the Government's so-called health plan would represent a tragedy to the delivery of the health care system of this nation. It is inflationary. Apart from all the other evils of what it would do to the delivery of the health care system it is highly inflationary. The little man is being hit already by the Government with higher charges for cigarettes, spirits, telephone calls and postage stamps - almost everywhere he turns. The imposition of higher taxes in the Budget has been threatened. On top of that the Government plans to impose a levy of $1.35 on every $100 earned to pay for its extravagant health scheme. The levy will be deducted from pay packets and working wives as well as their husbands will have to pay. To a family in which there is a working wife it will represent double taxation. The unfortunate people of Queensland will be hit yet again because by this levy they will be forced to pay through the taxation .mechanism for something that they are already getting free. 
The Government is also concealing the high cost of its scheme. Out of any logic, apart from philosophical and other objections we have to this scheme, we would be entitled to oppose it because .we are being asked to agree to legislation which provides for the imposition of a levy without the Minister for Social Security telling the nation and the Parliament the cost of his health scheme. He is asking us for a blank cheque. 
I thank the honourable member for Kooyong for that interjection. I entirely and unequivocally agree with it. The White Paper published last November referred to the subsidy which will be required from Consolidated Revenue. It is said that a subsidy of about $1.50 from Consolidated Revenue for every $1 collected through the imposition of the levy would ,be required after the first year. Yet on the basis of the figures published in the White Paper on the first full year cost of the scheme in 1974-75, simple arithmetic shows that a subsidy of $1.73 would be required for every $1 collected by way of a levy, that is, $l,0l2m less $390m, divided by $360m. I invite the Minister to examine pages 70 and 71 of the White Paper. The White Paper ratio of 1.5 to 1 is not even broadly correct, as claimed, for 1974-75, quite apart from subsequent years. 
The Minister has attacked E. S. Knight and Co. I know that he has been gracious enough not to attack that company's integrity but he has attacked its assumptions. I am sure that he would agree with the statement that it is a very reputable firm of consultant actuaries. It has estimated that if the plan had come into operation on 1 July this year the cost would be between $252m and $393m more than the White Paper estimate. I challenge the Minister to deny in his reply the figuring of that actuarial company. This would mean that a subsidy of between $1.90 and $2.20 would be required for every $1 of levy collected if the levy is to be kept at the present 1.35 per cent level. 
I turn now to the matter of cost. I am sure that the Senate will be fascinated to receive these Bills without the Minister telling the Senate the cost of this scheme. He can treat us here with contempt. When we ask for the cost of his scheme he can refuse to give it to us and, because the Government has a majority of the votes in this House, he can steamroll the legislation through this House. He can get away with it here but not so in the Senate. I think there will be a great number of senators - I hope thirty-one of them - who will think so poorly of the Minister's inability to give a costing of the scheme that they will vigorously oppose these Bills. The Minister at least should have published an up-dated costing. Even he admits that inflation will have had an effect on the cost. The White Paper which published the costing referred to 1974-75; the scheme is now proposed to operate from 1975. Apparently the Minister has not made up his mind as to the date even yet. How pathetic is this Government which is pursuing with the persistence of the stupid the implementation of this health scheme. The Government cannot tell us even now whether the scheme will be implemented on 1 July 1975 or 1 October 1975. 
As my friend, the honourable member for Murray, says, the Government is running blind. The Minister wants people to pay out of their pay packets $1.35 for every $100 they earn. They are entitled to know what costs this levy will be used to 'meet. I could list again the arguments that we have listed before. I just wonder, though, how rapidly and obsessively this Government is trying to make 1984 happen in 1974. We are rapidly approaching the welfare state. The people of Australia will be required to pay more than the 1.35 per cent levy which is provided for in these Bills. Really, the levy could not remain at 1.35 per cent for very long without it becoming basically dishonest. It is dishonest to leave it at 1.35 per cent even now because of the inflation which we have experienced in the last 18 months. Let us say for the sake of argument that the levy is 2 per cent. Now we are told of these charming goodies on the horizon from the Government. The Woodhouse Committee report has recommended another levy of 2 per cent of net earnings. The Hancock Committee has recommended tentatively a 5 per cent levy on net incomes for its purposes. If we add these figures together we find that as a result of these measures alone the Government could impose a levy of 9 per cent on people's net earnings before they can collect their pay packets. I think we are rapidly reaching a situation, created by the socialists on the other side of the House, where a person will collect his pay each Friday from Big Brother only after having paid all his health insurance, all his housing, and all his food. He will then be doled out a few discretionary dollars which he can spend on going to the football or something of that nature. That is Orwell's '1984'; that is the welfare state. The Government is moving rapidly towards it in its obsession to nationalise and socialise us. 
When the White Paper was brought down it was admitted by the Minister that the proposed levy represented only 40 per cent of the cost of the scheme. Goodness knows what percentage of the cost it would represent now. There will be a hidden taxation imposed on all people to fund the scheme out of general taxation. Therefore the 3 levy Bills are rejected by the Opposition and will be opposed by the Opposition for philosophical reasons and also for the reason that no costing of the scheme has been given. 
I wonder why the Minister has introduced these Bills at this stage. A joint sitting of both Houses of the Parliament is to be held next Tuesday. I was told by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  had informed him that these levy Bills would not be brought on for debate this session. That was 2 weeks ago. On Friday of last week I returned to my office in Melbourne and received a phone call from my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party who told me that the Government had suddenly decided to bring the Bills on for debate this week. Apart from being an unsatisfactory way in which to run a House of the Parliament, I wonder what mischief is in the Minister's mind in taking this action. 
Why would he want the levy Bills brought on before the joint sitting is held? Will he rush them through the Senate this evening and have them passed there so that they do in fact become law before the joint sitting is held, or. is his ploy to have his health legislation passed by the joint sitting of the Houses of the Parliament next Tuesday so that he can then go to the doctors, the private hospitals, the health funds and the private nursing homes and say: T have got you where I want you. I have got my health scheme through the joint sitting. I have got the funding of it through the lower House. All I have to do now is present it to the Upper House and you are gone, so do a deal with me now'? They are the sorts of real stand-over socialist tactics which we are now seeing in relation to private health funds, the doctors, the private hospitals and the private nursing homes. The Government is formulating a pattern which is of deep concern to members of the Opposition. I express the fear that if these Bills are not rejected in the Senate we will have nationalised medicine on the doorstep. 
I shall now deal with the last of the 4 Bills - the first one listed on the Notice Paper - which proposes amendments to the National Health Act. As I said before, these are benefitsblocking Bills. One of the intriguing and most charming features of this Bill is that it provides that if a registered private health fund- either registered now or registered when the legislation becomes law - carries on the business of private health insurance it will be fined the sum of $1,000 per day for every day it contravenes that provision. What sort of a country are we becoming? What sort of freedoms are left when, if any registered fund - I believe the Minister will, by some intrigue, induce the private health funds to become registered by holding out carrots here and there - dares to take on private health insurance for the purposes listed in clause 16, it will be penalised by being fined $1,000 a day for each day during which the contravention continues. 
This is in clause 16. I invite the Minister to read his own Bill because I think even he would be shocked to find out that it contains that provision. He is asking us to accept this Bill with that provision in it, and yet he has the charm to say in his second reading speech that legislation will also be introduced to enable the Australian government to authorise and supervise the operations of private health insurance business under the program. We are being asked to approve a Bill which provides for a health fund to be fined $1,000 a day if it does not do what the Minister says. The Minister then says: 'But we are going to allow the health funds to do certain things'. He will not tell us what he intends to allow them to do, but he expects a 'blank cheque in relation to this legislation we are discussing today. That situation, apart from being unreal and naive, borders on the impertinent. For .that reason alone we would reject this particular amendment to the National Health Act. 
The Minister mentioned that money will be given to the States under the heads of agreement, and that legislation to deal with that matter will be coming into the House also. Yet the Minister was frank enough to admit to me that at this stage he has not even had meaningful discussions with the State Ministers, let alone the State Ministers of his own political persuasion, as I understand it, about the heads of agreement as outlined in Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Bill. 
We reject this health scheme for the reasons that I have given. I have mentioned the impact that the levy would have on Queenslanders and 1 intend to give some interesting figures. We have said to the Minister time and time again that a free health scheme of his description will result in over-utilisation. Does the Minister not know that the health scheme in Great Britain, which is very similar to his, is about to crash and to crumble? Does he not know that the health scheme in Canada, which is similar to his, is about to ruin that country? Over-utilisation is a feature of health schemes such as the Minister's. Let me give some interesting statistics. Queensland has free hospitalisation. I am not canvassing the situation there. I am stating facts and statistics on hospital use in that State. In 1971 there were 1,797 days hospitalisation for every 1,000 people. The ratio is 1,797 to 1,000. In Victoria, where there is some kind of curb on utilisation, there were 1,315 days of hospitalisation for every 1,000 people. The national average is 1,556. This simply means that if people are given things for nothing without putting some form of patient moiety, it is human nature to act as though they need them and to use them. This has been exemplified by the Queensland, British and Canadian experience. 
Is the Minister not disturbed about the way costs of social welfare are already rising in Australia? Is he not terrified by the remarks of his own Prime Minister made at some hospital function last Saturday? The Prime Minister envisaged a time when the total hand-outs or pay-outs for social welfare would represent 12 per cent of gross national product. The Minister shakes his head. I respect the Minister when he shakes his head. A comparison can be made between the figure of 12 per cent and the present payments which, I think, represent 4.3 per cent of gross national product. If my comparisons are unfair I invite the Minister to query them. To me this is a terrifying concept. Where is the extra 8 per cent coming from? What programs will be cut? Gross national product is, in fact, a finite concept. 
The thing that disturbs me is that there are some features in the Health Insurance Bill and the Health Insurance Commission Bill with which the Opposition, in principle, concurs. I have said so in 2 debates in this House. I have told the Minister on 2 occasions in this place that if he wishes to bring these features in through other legislation we will give them expedition. What disturbs me, as an Australian is that we are now in the worst of all worlds. We have not got the Hayden health scheme. We have an old health scheme which I have conceded needed updating, its deficiencies removed and refining because of the dynamic society in which we live. At present the people of Australia are not getting the Hayden health scheme. They are not getting the Liberal-Country Party health scheme. They are getting something in between, and the people who suffer will be the people of Australia. 
I say again that the Opposition favours increased financial assistance to public hospitals. If the Government wishes to bring in legislation on that aspect in acceptable form we will give it expedition. We favour the proposal to enable visitors to Australia to participate in the scheme on the payment of appropriate premiums. We favour the concept of special medical benefits for unusual or complex procedures. We favour the right of doctors to appeal against decisions of committees of inquiry. We favour the proposed increase in payments to private hospitals. We especially favour the concept - it is incorporated in our health plan as well - that pensioners and receivers of subsidised health benefits will be integrated into the scheme and become entitled to the same benefits as are enjoyed by all other members of that scheme. We want maximum coverage. 
Any reasonable proposition, short of absolute and total compulsion, which the Minister introduces will gain our support. We favour a sliding scale of contribution. We favour the exemption from payment of hospital and medical insurance of those people on low incomes. I ask the Minister: If he is frustrated with the implementation of his scheme, as I hope he will be, will he not at least adopt a bi-partisan attitude on those aspects of national health on which there is agreement between the 2 parties? The attitude of the Opposition is that it looks at these 4 Bills simply as Bills to implement the so-called Hayden health scheme. We repeat our intractable and vigorous opposition to it and therefore to them. 
I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for tabling the various papers. I make the comment that my worst suspicions have been confirmed with regard to the Registration Committee. The application was put into the Department by the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia on 24 July. Only 3 days later the Committee saw fit to assess the massive amount of information in the application and make a recommendation to the Minister that tha benefits be approved but the contribution rates be refused. The mind boggles at how such a massive exercise can be undertaken in what must have been a little over a day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
This Bill is the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1974. That means it is the second Bill brought in by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  this session to amend the National Health Act. I plead with the Minister - I am sure he would agree with me - to consolidate that original Act. It would make it much easier to follow. I know that its consolidation is not his responsibility, but I am sure that he would agree with me that it is a nightmare to try to read the original Act plus all the amendments. 
This Bill proposes to do several things. It relates to the private health insurance funds. In the Minister's terms, because of the uncertainty of the power the Minister has over applications from the funds to increase benefits or contributions when presented to him in a package, he has seen fit to introduce in a very hurried fashion this amending Bill. The private health funds are organisations registered under the National Health Act. They register because they receive subventions from Commonwealth revenue to pay benefits to their contributors - people who insure themselves against the cost of going into hospital or consulting a doctor. There are different organisations in the various States. The present mock crisis has been orecipitated by the actions of 2 New South Wales health funds, the Medical Benefits Fund and the Hospitals Contributions Fund, plus several other smaller societies. 
At the outset I should explain - I hope that the Minister and the Australian Labor Party at last will look at these funds in their proper light - that they are not multi-national, profit hungry, rapacious monsters as the Minister has often described them. They are cooperatives. They are groups of people who join together to pay insurance so that if the sad day comes that they are sick or injured their hospital and medical expenses can be allayed. There are no shareholders as such, no wealthy shareholders and no board of directors receiving enormous emoluments. In fact, most of the people who serve on the boards of the funds do so in an honorary capacity. Over the years they have rendered an outstanding service to Australia in a very unselfish, unpaid capacity. Therefore, I can understand why they are upset when they are called names in public by the Minister. 
When we are talking about private health funds we are talking about non-profit groups of individuals who join together in a cooperative, credit union sort of sense to insure themselves against the cost of sickness or injury. These funds as I said a moment ago, have to register under the National Health Act to receive the subvention from Commonwealth funds. That Act provides that if any of those funds wish to increase the contributions of contributors or increase the benefits they pay to the contributors they must receive the approval of the Minister. This is a concept with which I do not disagree. My Party introduced it when we were in government. Of course, if the Government is to be handing out taxpayers' money to health funds it must have some say in or control over the administration of those funds. According to us the Act presently gives the Minister power to reject or accept those increases which are applied for from time to time. Admittedly, if a fund disobeys the Minister's direction the only power he seems to have is that of deregistration. That could be called using a steam hammer to hit a tack. To be fair, I can sympathise with the Minister. Any Minister, of whatever political persuasion he might be, would be very loathe to deregister a health fund because of the odium that would attract from people who contribute to the fund. They could not get their benefits. As I understand it we never had any difficulties in administering the health funds. The Minister for Social Security in his second reading speech mentioned uncertainty of power. I would thank the Minister if, in his reply, he would inform me as to who advised him about this uncertainty of power. Was it the Attorney-General or his Department? It would be useful to have recorded in the debate the depth of that advice. 
This Bill amends the Act to give the Minister additional power to vary applications for increase. Instead of saying yes or no, to accept or to reject, this Bill gives the Minister power to vary. In other words, if a fund wants to increase contributions by 40 per cent after consultation with actuarial advice the Minister may say. 'Well, 20 per cent is fair.' This Bill gives the Minister that added power. In the hands of a Minister who wants to destroy the private health funds - I am completely persuaded that this Minister and this Government want to do that - this is rather a strong power. As a sugar coating to this Bill there is a provision that if the Minister allows an increase which is less than the fund applied for the fund can appeal against the Minister's decision. The Bill provides the grounds of appeal for the funds and it states: 
Where ... the Minister has refused . . . refusal is likely to result in the moneys in the fund becoming less than the amounts reasonably required for the purposes of the fund, including the maintenance of adequate reserves . . . 
Once the Minister makes a judgment and if the fund is unsatisfied, according to this Bill it can then appeal to a judge of a Federal court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory to hear the appeal. The next feature of the Bill is that once that judge determines the appeal the Minister may be directed by him to approve the change in whole or in part. So we have the system where an independent umpire is appointed - a Federal judge or a Supreme Court judge. The Minister is bound by that umpire's decision. The Bill also gives power to a person to take out an injunction against a fund if it is operating against the Act or continuing to operate against the Act. A contempt provision is implied. If a fund refuses to obey the decision of the Minister or, in particular, of the Arbitrator, that fund can be held in contempt of court. That is the Bill, which 1 think I have explained fairly. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but I give notice to the Minister that because of the shortness of time we have had to consider it - 1 am sure that he will concede that - an amendment may be brought forward in the Senate. I am sure that the Minister will accept it. It is a machinery amendment because my legal advice is that because of the way in which the Bill has been drafted the injunction procedures and the contempt procedures are clumsy and they could be improved. But it may well be that we will not have time to do that. When I say that we do not oppose the Bill that is not to be construed that we support the Minister in his present dispute and in his attitude generally towards private hospital funds, private nursing homes, private hospitals and doctors. In fact, we regard this Bill as unnecessary. We regard it as political opportunism on a grand scale. We regard it as a grandstanding exercise by the .Minister who is using the present situation to embarrass, humiliate and demean the private enterprise health insurance funds - his bete noire. I have a great deal of sympathy for the funds in their present dilemma but as Opposition spokesman I must be on record as saying that I am disappointed at their timing in applying these increases and at the public relations stance which they have taken. Without question they have been provoked and frustrated but 1 think that sweet reason could have prevailed and not a confrontation as has taken place. After having said that in criticism of the funds I say that I can understand their massive problem of meeting increasing costs with income. 
I condemn the Minister for his handling of this dispute. Again when the Minister is involved in negotiations with any of the people I have mentioned name calling and public abuse are featured. In fact, sometimes I wonder whether his favourite pastime is not name calling. We heard from him of the greedy doctors and then of the rapacious health funds. Private hospitals and nursing homes have not escaped the Minister's personal abuse. The Minister is in a very difficult and delicate area in his present portfolio. I have commended him for many of the things he has done but when one deals with human beings in a highly charged situation like this one does not rush into print and call people names, causing a confrontation situation as the Minister has done, so often. The sad fact is that today, 1 August, in New South Wales literally thousands of people do not know whether they are covered effectively for health insurance benefits. Does not the Minister know that today babies will be born in hospitals, people will have accidents and that there are people who have been booked for months before into hospitals for surgery? 
 I thank the honourable member for Prospect for his interjection. The simple 'fact is that the Minister has publicly gone on record and said that these funds are acting illegally. The Minister has publicly appealed to people not to pay their contributions. If that goes on for 8 weeks, as the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said, these people are not covered. 
'It is certain that a baby will be born today. What is not certain is that this dilemma will be resolved in 8 weeks. I repeat that those people are in a state of distress. A person who is sick is already distressed enough without having this additional worry. Let me trace the present history of this dispute. I am not absolutely sure of the dates. I will be corrected by the Minister as he has them on his file. As I understand it, at about 4 June a decision was made by the Government of New South Wales to increase hospital fees by 50 per cent as from 1 August. I understand that this was 3 days before another fundamental decision was made in the Caucus room about petrol subsidies. 'It now seems to be in doubt whether the real decision was not made last night. One can understand the State Government - because of the massive inflation which is caused by this Government's maladministration increasing nurses' wages and other things- deciding that 50 per cent increase in hospital fees was necessary. That announcement was made on 4 June and it was to operate from 1 August. The funds were not given 3 months notice which is usual and understandable because the funds have to go to their actuaries and it is a most complicated exercise to work out to what extent contributions have to be increased or expenses will be increased. But that was the fact and the funds could not wait beyond I August. After doing some initial work on this matter I am informed by the funds that on or about 1 1 July they met or had communications with the Minister and said that, because of the massive increases in costs brought about by the New South Wales Government's decision, and other inflationary factors which had an impact upon the. expenses of the funds, they had to have an increase in contributions. 
I ask the Minister in his reply to accept or deny this statement I make about him: Did he or his representatives on 11 July say to the funds that they would not be allowed to increase contributions? The answer to that question would be fascinating. If the Minister let the funds know that then it puts him in an intolerable position. If he did say that, I suggest it makes a mockery of his Registration Committee because according to the Act when an application is made for an increase in the contributions paid to health funds the Registration Committee advises the Minister whether the increases are reasonable. How could this matter have been taken to the Registration Committee if a formal submission had not at that stage been made? 
Did the Minister, without examining the figures and without having any representations made to him simply say: 'You are not getting a bean as from 1 August, notwithstanding the fact that you have to pay a 50 per cent increase'. That makes the Registration Committee a farce. The Registration Committee is the Minister's child and it does what it is told. In the light of the fact that the funds were faced with a 57 per cent increase in costs - this information has been given to me, I have not checked it - they agreed to increase contributions by 40 per cent. One does not have to be a genius at arithmetic to know that if costs are increasing by 57 per cent and income is increasing by only 40 per cent, it will mean a fairly rapid run down in reserves. 
 I cannot follow that kind of logic. No matter how much the funds have in reserve, if their costs are increased by 57 per cent and they increase their contributions by only 40 per cent, by any mathematical calculation there must be a run down in reserves. One simple answer, which the Minister seems to think is the right one, is that the funds should run down their reserves. It has been said by the Minister that the funds have a reserve of $50m. I am not opposed to forcing or influencing the health funds to run down reserves if they are regarded as being excessive. I am prepared to accept the Nimmo Committee's ratio of 13 weeks contributions plus the alteration for the difference in the ratio of contributions to benefits that has been made since then. I would accept 1 to 18. I believe that, but does the Minister believe that these funds have these reserves in bank accounts, piggy banks or hidden under a mattress and that they can just go and say: 'We will pull this out'? Of course they do not. The Funds have invested their reserves in Government securities and one pities them when one sees what has happened to those investments because of the actions of this Government. 
Does the Minister suggest that the Commonwealth bonds that they bought 5 years ago should be cashed in now? Good heavens, that would result in massive losses for the funds. As I say, I hold no particular brief for these 2 health funds. The health funds have published figures which, if reasonable, need examination. My point is that these figures were not examined by the Minister when the funds approached him on 11 July. 
On 24 July, a week from yesterday, the funds made a submission to the Minister setting out in great detail how and why their costs had increased and also why they regarded an increase in contributions of 40 per cent as reasonable. That was only a week ago. The funds, received a telegram. I am not sure of the date but I think it was last week. I concede that the application was not couched in the words of an application it was couched in the form of a declaration that the funds were going ahead with their proposed increases on 1 August. One could say they were holding a gun at the Minister's head but again one can have some sympathy for the funds because they were told on 1 1 July that there was no way the Minister would approve an increase. The Minister sent a telegram to the funds saying that they were not to increase contributions. If the Minister does not mind, I ask him in his reply to give the details of the telegram that he sent to the funds. I do not want to see the telegram but I would like to know what was contained in it. Did the Minister say that at the end of September his decision would be reviewed? That is a point we would like to know. 
I ask the Minister also to table a copy of the Registration Committee's report to him on the application of 24 July. I believe that would be a fascinating document for those honourable members who are interested in this field. I pause to ask the Minister whether he will indicate whether he will table that report. 
I thank the Minister. After that abuse by the Minister of the funds and counter-abuse by the funds of the Minister- 
Did the Minister say open warfare? 
 I do not know about open government, but it was open warfare while people - the contributors - suffered and worried. The Minister with his usual mildness stated that the increases proposed by the funds were illegal. 'Illegal' is a term that suggests to my non-legal mind that someone is a criminal or has committed some illegal offence. Is that the way to start negotiations with the health funds, by telling them they acted illegally? Is it a way to begin negotiations, by asking contributors not to pay their subscriptions? When that was done the funds countered with a telegram to the Minister which they have made public. It stated: 
Your telegram of yesterday received this morning stop Your unwarranted attack in the media last night and this morning on the integrity and propriety of the governing bodies of our two funds precludes any useful discussion with you under the circumstances stop We are not prepared to confer with you until you withdraw your completely unjustified statements that the funds are acting improperly and in conflict with contributor interests. 
I understand that the Minister has not replied to that telegram. The result was that there was no confrontation between the Minister and the funds. They were not playing 'speaks'. Again the contributors to the funds were the ones to suffer. I then appealed for dialogue. I asked the funds to wait for a month before they implemented their increased contributions. In my judgment they could have afforded to wait a month. They could have afforded to make some peace with the Minister, or vice versa, and could have tried to negotiate this matter in a sensible way but they refused. I remind the Minister that it is not his favourite bete noire, the so-called rapacious health funds, that want this increase. Does the Minister know - I am sure he does - that other health funds are involved. He has received telegrams from the Waterside Workers Federation - not a union unfriendly to the Minister, nor he to it - which has some sort of friendly society or hospital society which also is caught up in this bind. The Manchester Unity Medical and Hospital Benefits Fund and very many small friendly societies are involved. AH of this problem could have been overcome without the necessity for this grandstanding, because we believe that the power to meet the problem is in the Act already. The solution of this problem of mounting costs will not be found in some pathetic, hastily conceived, little Bill. The real answer to this problem is to keep costs down and to try to curb inflation. That is the only way to keep down hospital costs and the costs of running friendly societies or health funds. This is the problem that this Government seems loath to tackle. 
I turn now to a suggestion that I have not canvassed. This problem between the health funds and the Minister for Social Security will continue. The Registration Committee is, I believe, a farce and has been made to appear to be a farce by this Minister. Would the Minister consider discussing with the funds the idea of an independent tribunal which could receive an application and then advise the Minister on it? I have not canvassed this suggestion with the funds. It is an idea of my own that I have had. At least it would take the sting out of the situation and would prevent the state of affairs that has been reached now. I know that under this legislation there is opportunity for an appeal to a judge. But that is different from an application first going to an independent tribunal. 
I turn to another matter on which I seek an assurance from the Minister when he replies. It does not concern the provisions of this Bill but relates to section 78 (6) of the principal Act. That provision says that once an application for an increase in contributions is received by him, the Minister shall give a judgment on it as soon as practicable. I think those are the words used. I do not know whether my learned, close and intelligent friend from Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  can inform me whether the phrase 'as soon as practicable' has any meaning in law; or whether a ruthless Minister could interpret 'as soon as practicable' to be 3 months or 6 months. If that were accepted, what redress would people have? I am not suggesting that the Minister has not acted with proper expedition and propriety in the past, but I would like an assurance from him that he will continue to act as soon as practicable in the reasonable sense. 
I know that my friend, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  has a particular worry about this Bill. I will not canvass that. I respect him for his interest in social welfare. He will be putting his concern when he speaks following me. 
I sum up by saying that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill, but my remarks are not to be construed as meaning that we approve in any way of the Minister's handling of this dispute. I repeat the words of my leader,  Mr 
Snedden, yesterday: I have no doubt that this Minister and this Government have the overt intention of destroying the private health funds, of destroying private practice in medicine and of destroying private hospitals and private nursing homes so that it can bring in its own discredited, miserable health scheme. We will oppose that all the way. But we will not oppose this Bill. 
The Opposition is very pleased that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has seen fit to co-operate with our suggestions, which were moved in the Senate and which we say will not only improve the machinery of the Bill but will also give further protection to the contributors to the Funds. The Opposition is also pleased to learn that the office bearers of the Funds have asked the Minister to see them. We are equally pleased that he has agreed to see them on Monday to try to allow sweet reason to prevail rather than the public confrontation which has taken place in the past. Once again I say that I hope those discussions will be conducted with the knowledge that this is a delicate situation, and also that they will be undertaken in private and not out in the public market place. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have been in some doubts as to the value of televising the proceedings in Parliament. After hearing the speech just ended, I have changed my mind. I am now persuaded that it is a good thing, because the people of Australia have just seen the most pathetic exposition of this so-called Labor scheme and they can now judge it for themselves. This is the fourth time that this socalled Labor health scheme has been debated in this place. It is the fourth time that I have stood here with the unanimous support of everyone sitting on my left to oppose the legislation with all our force. In doing that, the Opposition realises the political implications of its stance. We are not here to make a political point. It is a matter of principle, because we believe that this health scheme proposed by the Labor Party would be a disaster to the health of the Australian people. I reject on behalf of everybody on my side the sordid allegation made by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that the Opposition bows to vested interests. We do not give a damn about vested interests. It is a sordid allegation. What the Opposition cares about is the health of the Australian people. That is why we oppose this scheme. 
This debate is not really about politics, although it is conducted in a political forum. It is a debate about human beings- Australian human beings- and the most important thing in their lives, their health. This debate concerns not only those people who are now living, but also those to be born, because once this Labor health scheme is impacted on the Australian people there is no getting away from it. It will be with us for ever, as the British socialised health scheme is with the British people, as are the schemes that exist in Canada and New Zealand. This proposed scheme affects all Australians- living and to be born. The inevitable result of living is that sometime all of us will lose that rare gift which we take for granted while we have it- our health. We appreciate it only when we lose it. 
All of us can talk academically about health schemes, doctors and hospitals until we or one of our family need one. Tomorrow, as innocent pedestrians, we or our children could have our hopes decimated by the fool or the drunkard in a motor car. Any one of us could be struck at any time by a predatory virus, no matter what our social standing, income, age or sex may be. The mysterious killer diseases of heart and cancer could strike any of us without warning. Every baby born in Australian families requires hospitalisation and the best of medical care for mother and child. No one can promise that we shall not grow old. These are the things that this debate is about. 
I am not suggesting that the Minister for Social Security or any member of the Australian Labor Party does not have the same basic concern about these values as we do. What we say is that their method of approaching them and solving them is basically wrong and will end in disaster. They are socialists. They are proud to be socialists. They approach all problems in this community with that philosophy. Eighteen months ago honourable members opposite sincerely believed that they could improve our way of life. They sincerely believed that they could improve our economy. In 18 months they have reduced it to near chaos and disaster. The socialist regards the individual as a nuisance. In 18 miserable months the Government has made the rate of inflation jump from 4 per cent to 14 per centunparalleled in our history. In a time of an oil crisis the Government has rendered Australia - 

 - Mr Chairman, you know that I have ultimate respect for your rulings, but if the performance of this Government over the last 18 months is not relevant to what it promised to do in the field of health, I regard that as a rather curious ruling. 
-Let me talk about what the Government promised young married people 18 months ago. The Government said that it would solve their problems. A young person getting married today has to pay $36,000 for a home. He has to borrow $18,000 on first mortgage at 12 per cent. The Government has done that in 18 months. 
This measure before the Joint Sitting will effect the health of every Australian. The Government's performance in this regard must be judged on its performance over the past 18 months. I would have thought that it was quite fair and proper for me to refer to the Government's miserable record over the past 18 months to allow the Australian people to assess what hope this health scheme has. That is what the Government has done in 18 months- all of that and many more things,  Mr Chairman,  which you will not permit me to mention. It is not easy to do those things in 1 8 months. One needs a rare touch of genius to do them, but the Government has done them, spending money like a drunken sailor on leave. 
Now it proceeds with this health scheme which 56 per cent of the people surveyed in a Gallup poll said that they do not want. Yet with the persistence of the stupid the Government presses on with it, as socialists do. I remember the words of Koestler about socialists. He said that they whip the groaning masses to theoretical happiness which only they can see. The Labor Party genuinely believes that the best health care system is by salaried doctors, with Governmentowned hospitals and Government-owned nursing homes. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is on record as saying that he envisages that in a few years time, under the scheme, 80 per cent of people will be going to salaried doctors and that only 20 per cent will be able to afford to see a private doctor in his surgery. Where is the doctor-patient relationship in that sort of scheme? 
In July 1972 the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  said: 
Private hospitals and private nursing homes are irrelevant to the Labor Party 's conceptt of a national health scheme. 
The vast majority of people could easily be catered for in the public hospital sector. 
The Prime Minister himself, in July 1 972, said: 
The major act of nationalisation in the traditional sense to be undertaken by a Labor Government in the next term will be through the establishment of a single health fund administered by a health insurance commission. 
The Minister for Social Security, in September 1972, said: 
The Labor Party is a. socialist party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned is the establishment of public enterprise. 
If we had any doubt about the Government's intentions, the statements of those 3 people should be enough to dispel them. These sorts of statements literally mean that there will be a system of salaried doctors and the destruction of the doctor-patient relationship, the destruction of the magnificent private hospitals, the public hospitals, philanthropic nursing homes run by dedicated people, government-owned insurance funds including the little ones, and funds owned by trade unions and friendly societies. 
We in the Liberal and Country Parties are against the nationalisation of medicine. We are against the nationalisation of all professions- not only medicine but also law, science and architecture. We believe that it would reduce the quality of living to that of a socialist banana republic. Because of the inherent strengths and weaknesses of human nature, as soon as the rights and incentives of the professional man to practise in a free, competitive society are taken away and he is forced to work in a government machine, creative achievements, ingenious new techniques, break-throughs in knowledge and further explorations of the perplexing problems of mankind cease and we are all reduced to a level of mediocrity. 
I make an appeal to  Senator Hall,  who I understand is to oppose these Bills but who then by some curious system of logic, after these Bills are passed by the sheer weight of numbers, will sacrifice the principle on which he opposes these Bills and vote for the enabling Bills when they are introduced. That is a form of logic which I cannot follow. If he approves something on principle, how does it change if by the sheer weight of numbers certain Bills are passed through this Parliament? 
Let me explain what the Bills do. Firstly, the Government says to between 92 per cent and 95 per cent of Australians who are already covered by voluntary health insurance: 'We are going to upset the present situation. We are not going to give you the right of choice of voluntary insurance. We will force you by a compulsory super-tax of 1.35 per cent on income to insure with the government insurance fund'. It goes further and says to the man whose wife is working: 'We will not only take 1.35 per cent off your income in tax, but we will also take it off your wife'. So there will be double taxation in a family. In Queensland, the Minister's own State, the scheme goes further. It hits Queenslanders a third time because, as the Minister knows, in Queensland there is free hospitalisation already. Not only will all husbands and wives in Queensland be taxed on their incomes but they will be taxed for something that they are already getting for nothing. I would be amused to hear how the Minister justifies that to Queenslanders. 
The Government scheme goes further. By choice, 80 per cent of those people who now insure privately have opted for insurance for private wards. A young couple prefer to have their baby born in a private hospital. Eighty per cent of them pay for private hospital insurance. The Government says: 'We will insure you and drag you down to public ward accommodation. We will take away your choice'. The Minister says that people can insure privately. Is there any young couple who could afford additional private insurance after the imposition of the supertax of 1.35 per cent on income? Estimates of private insurance over and above the tax range from $100 to $200 a family. Can a young couple afford that as well? That proposition is absurd. 
The Opposition believes in the maximum coverage of people. We concede that many people today are not covered for health insurance and should be. From 5 per cent to 8 per cent of people are in this category. If the Minister and the Labor Party acknowledged that in those people they had a problem and decided to try to cover those people- the poor, the migrant, the ignorant; the 8 per cent or 5 per cent- we would be all the way with them. But they do not do that. They go to everybody in Australia and in typical socialist fashion grab them. The Government says: 'We will grab the lot of you and take away your freedom of choice'. In its obsessive zeal for nationalisation the Government will create one government insurance fund which will process 90,000 claims a day. That is mind boggling. Everyone's personal medical history will be in one Government owned data bank. The Labor Party health scheme entitles all Australians to free hospitalisation in a public ward. I ask: What is the effect of this? At present free public ward accommodation is mostly reserved for the poor, the migrant, the pensioner and those suffering from diseases the treatment of which demands special and sophisticated forms of equipment. Such hospitals are exclusively reserved for bad casualty cases. But these public hospitals are now used to full capacity. For example, in Melbourne there is already a waiting list in public hospitals of from 6 to 18 months for non-urgent surgery. 
The present system gives preference to the underdog, the poor person and people on low incomes. These are the people whom the Australian Labor Party supposedly champions. But make hospitalisation free overnight as the Government proposes to do on 1 July next year and we remove that preference to the poor, to the underdog and to the underprivileged. They will then have to compete with everybody else. The absurdity is that into the already overcrowded system we will impact millions and millions of people who are available for free accommodation in public ward hospitals. This will throw the public ward hospitals in this country into chaos. Human nature being what it is, why would not people who have a tax imposed on them say to themselves: 'Well, I am being taxed for this free public ward accommodation. I might as well use it. ' That is human nature. As I said a moment ago, many people will not be able to afford private insurance over and above the super tax. In Melbourne alone 1 ,000 additional public ward beds will be required overnight. How do we get 1,000 beds overnight? We cannot build a new hospital overnight. We can extend the waiting time for non-urgent surgery in public hospitals as they have had to do under the United Kingdom scheme upon which this scheme is modelled. One has to wait three to five years in the United Kingdom to have surgery for varicose veins, non-urgent gynaecological disorders, hernias and the like. Does the Labor Party want to impact that kind of scheme on Australia? the third possibility is that we commandeer private hospitals. I think that the great private hospitals run by philanthropic, charitable and religious organisations which have done a fantastic job for health care in this country are in immediate danger under this scheme. Does anybody in Melbourne believe that that great private hospital, the Mercy Hospital, or the equally great St Andrew's private hospital will remain immune? The Minister will commandeer, induce, seduce in some way beds from these hospitals. There is only one place in which these additional public ward beds will be required and under this Bill the Minister has power- time does not permit me to go into this- to do just that. 
This Bill makes the Minister for Social Security a latter day Don Corleone as far as the private hospitals are concerned. He can make them an offer. They cannot possibly refuse. No matter what the Minister says about doctor of own choice, if a great private hospital is half public and half private it is absurd to talk about a patient in the private section having the doctor of his own choice. That is a myth. I remind the people of Australia that this scheme cannot be paid for out of the 1.35 per cent levy. For every dollar the Government collects on that levy there has to be an extra $2 or more out of Consolidated Revenue. Who provides Consolidated Revenue? It is the taxpayers, and on to them this already over-expensive Labor Government is impacting a scheme which, according to an expert actuarial firm, is already under-costed by $300m or $400m per annum. The Minister will not cost his scheme. He is asking this Joint Sitting to pass an uncosted scheme, to give him a blank cheque. 

 Mr Chairman, we are not obstructionists. We have an alternative scheme. On 3 occasions in the 
House of Representatives I have said to the Minister that the Opposition supports increased money for public hospitals, we support assistance for people on low incomes with their insurance premiums and we support a great number of proposals in his health scheme; and I have appealed to him to adopt a bi-partisan approach on these matters. If he does that, the Opposition will give him every co-operation. But he has not done so. I plead with him to drop this crazy costly scheme. It will not improve the nation's health. It depersonalises medical care. It offers patients public wards when 80 per cent of people have shown clearly that they want private ward accommodation. It adds massively to costs at a time when cost increases are destroying our way of life. 
Why does the Government not realise that it cannot keep spending money as though it is going out of fashion? The Treasury coffers are not some bottomless pit into which some mystical goose continues to lay golden eggs. The ordinary, hard working Australian is the person who has to pay for socialist extravagances. The fact of life that this Government does not understand is that there are no mystical geese, although at times members of the Government Party seem desperately to be trying to imitate them, and there are no golden eggs. The Labor Government has ruined everything it has touched in the past 18 months. It can meddle with and ruin everything else it touches, but I plead with it not to meddle with the nation's health. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have been in some doubts as to the value of televising the proceedings in Parliament. After hearing the speech just ended, I have changed my mind. I am now persuaded that it is a good thing, because the people of Australia have just seen the most pathetic exposition of this so-called Labor scheme and they can now judge it for themselves. This is the fourth time that this socalled Labor health scheme has been debated in this place. It is the fourth time that I have stood here with the unanimous support of everyone sitting on my left to oppose the legislation with all our force. In doing that, the Opposition realises the political implications of its stance. We are not here to make a political point. It is a matter of principle, because we believe that this health scheme proposed by the Labor Party would be a disaster to the health of the Australian people. I reject on behalf of everybody on my side the sordid allegation made by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that the Opposition bows to vested interests. We do not give a damn about vested interests. It is a sordid allegation. What the Opposition cares about is the health of the Australian people. That is why we oppose this scheme. 
This debate is not really about politics, although it is conducted in a political forum. It is a debate about human beings- Australian human beings- and the most important thing in their lives, their health. This debate concerns not only those people who are now living, but also those to be born, because once this Labor health scheme is impacted on the Australian people there is no getting away from it. It will be with us for ever, as the British socialised health scheme is with the British people, as are the schemes that exist in Canada and New Zealand. This proposed scheme affects all Australians- living and to be born. The inevitable result of living is that sometime all of us will lose that rare gift which we take for granted while we have it- our health. We appreciate it only when we lose it. 
All of us can talk academically about health schemes, doctors and hospitals until we or one of our family need one. Tomorrow, as innocent pedestrians, we or our children could have our hopes decimated by the fool or the drunkard in a motor car. Any one of us could be struck at any time by a predatory virus, no matter what our social standing, income, age or sex may be. The mysterious killer diseases of heart and cancer could strike any of us without warning. Every baby born in Australian families requires hospitalisation and the best of medical care for mother and child. No one can promise that we shall not grow old. These are the things that this debate is about. 
I am not suggesting that the Minister for Social Security or any member of the Australian Labor Party does not have the same basic concern about these values as we do. What we say is that their method of approaching them and solving them is basically wrong and will end in disaster. They are socialists. They are proud to be socialists. They approach all problems in this community with that philosophy. Eighteen months ago honourable members opposite sincerely believed that they could improve our way of life. They sincerely believed that they could improve our economy. In 18 months they have reduced it to near chaos and disaster. The socialist regards the individual as a nuisance. In 18 miserable months the Government has made the rate of inflation jump from 4 per cent to 14 per centunparalleled in our history. In a time of an oil crisis the Government has rendered Australia - 

 -Mr Chairman, you know that I have ultimate respect for your rulings, but if the performance of this Government over the last 18 months is not relevant to what it promised to do in the field of health, I regard that as a rather curious ruling. 
-Let me talk about what the Government promised young married people 18 months ago. The Government said that it would solve their problems. A young person getting married today has to pay $36,000 for a home. He has to borrow $18,000 on first mortgage at 12 per cent. The Government has done that in 1 8 months. 
This measure before the Joint Sitting will effect the health of every Australian. The Government's performance in this regard must be judged on its performance over the past 18 months. I would have thought that it was quite fair and proper for me to refer to the Government's miserable record over the past 18 months to allow the Australian people to assess what hope this health scheme has. That is what the Government has done in 18 months- all of that and many more things,  Mr Chairman,  which you will not permit me to mention. It is not easy to do those things in 18 months. One needs a rare touch of genius to do them, but the Government has done them, spending money like a drunken sailor on leave. 
Now it proceeds with this health scheme which 56 per cent of the people surveyed in a Gallup poll said that they do not want. Yet with the persistence of the stupid the Government presses on with it, as socialists do. I remember the words of Koestler about socialists. He said that they whip the groaning masses to theoretical happiness which only they can see. The Labor Party genuinely believes that the best health care system is by salaried doctors, with Governmentowned hospitals and Government-owned nursing homes. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is on record as saying that he envisages that in a few years time, under the scheme, 80 per cent of people will be going to salaried doctors and that only 20 per cent will be able to afford to see a private doctor in his surgery. Where is the doctor-patient relationship in that sort of scheme? 
In July 1972 the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  said: 
Private hospitals and private nursing homes are irrelevant to the Labor Party's concept of a national health scheme. 
The vast majority of people could easily be catered for in the public hospital sector. 
The Prime Minister himself, in July 1 972, said: 
The major act of nationalisation in the traditional sense to be undertaken by a Labor Government in the next term will be through the establishment of a single health fund administered by a health insurance commission. 
The Minister for Social Security, in September 1972, said: 
The Labor Party is a socialist party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned is the establishment of public enterprise. 
If we had any doubt about the Government's intentions, the statements of those 3 people should be enough to dispel them. These sorts of statements literally mean that there will be a system of salaried doctors and the destruction of the doctor-patient relationship, the destruction of the magnificent private hospitals, the public hospitals, philanthropic nursing homes run by dedicated people, government-owned insurance funds including the little ones, and funds owned by trade unions and friendly societies. 
We in the Liberal and Country Parties are against the nationalisation of medicine. We are against the nationalisation of all professions- not only medicine but also law, science and architecture. We believe that it would reduce the quality of living to that of a socialist banana republic. Because of the inherent strengths and weaknesses of human nature, as soon as the rights and incentives of the professional man to practise in a free, competitive society are taken away and he is forced to work in a government machine, creative achievements, ingenious new techniques, break-throughs in knowledge and further explorations of the perplexing problems of mankind cease and we are all reduced to a level of mediocrity. 
I make an appeal to  Senator Hall,  who I understand is to oppose these Bills but who then by some curious system of logic, after these Bills are passed by the sheer weight of numbers, will sacrifice the principle on which he opposes these Bills and vote for the enabling Bills when they are introduced. That is a form of logic which I cannot follow. If he approves something on principle, how does it change if by the sheer weight of numbers certain Bills are passed through this Parliament? 
Let me explain what the Bills do. Firstly, the Government says to between 92 per cent and 95 per cent of Australians who are already covered by voluntary health insurance: 'We are going to upset the present situation. We are not going to give you the right of choice of voluntary insurance. We will force you by a compulsory super-tax of 1.35 per cent on income to insure with the government insurance fund'. It goes further and says to the man whose wife is working: 'We will not only take 1.35 per cent off your income in tax, but we will also take it off your wife'. So there will be double taxation in a family. In Queensland, the Minister's own State, the scheme goes further. It hits Queenslanders a third time because, as the Minister knows, in Queensland there is free hospitalisation already. Not only will all husbands and wives in Queensland be taxed on their incomes but they will be taxed for something that they are already getting for nothing. I would be amused to hear how the Minister justifies that to Queenslanders. 
The Government scheme goes further. By choice, 80 per cent of those people who now insure privately have opted for insurance for private wards. A young couple prefer to have their baby born in a private hospital. Eighty per cent of them pay for private hospital insurance. The Government says: 'We will insure you and drag you down to public ward accommodation. We will take away your choice'. The Minister says that people can insure privately. Is there any young couple who could afford additional private insurance after the imposition of the supertax of 1.35 per cent on income? Estimates of private insurance over and above the tax range from $ 100 to $200 a family. Can a young couple afford that as well? That proposition is absurd. 
The Opposition believes in the maximum coverage of people. We concede that many people today are not covered for health insurance and should be. From 5 per cent to 8 per cent of people are in this category. If the Minister and the Labor Party acknowledged that in those people they had a problem and decided to try to cover those people- the poor, the migrant, the ignorant; the 8 per cent or 5 per cent- we would be all the way with them. But they do not do that. They go to everybody in Australia and in typical socialist fashion grab them. The Government says: 'We will grab the lot of you and take away your freedom of choice'. In its obsessive zeal for nationalisation the Government will create one government insurance fund which will process 90,000 claims a day. That is mind bogsling. Everyone's personal medical history will be in one Government owned data bank. The Labor Party health scheme entitles all Australians to free hospitalisation in a public ward. I ask: What is the effect of this? At present free public ward accommodation is mostly reserved for the poor, the migrant, the pensioner and those suffering from diseases the treatment of which demands special and sophisticated forms of equipment. Such hospitals are exclusively reserved for bad casualty cases. But these public hospitals are now used to full capacity. For example, in Melbourne there is already a waiting list in public hospitals of from 6 to 18 months for non-urgent surgery. 
The present system gives preference to the underdog, the poor person and people on low incomes. These are the people whom the Australian Labor Party supposedly champions. But make hospitalisation free overnight as the Government proposes to do on 1 July next year and we remove that preference to the poor, to the underdog and to the underprivileged. They will then have to compete with everybody else. The absurdity is that into the already overcrowded system we will impact millions and millions of people who are available for free accommodation in public ward hospitals. This will throw the public ward hospitals in this country into chaos. Human nature being what it is, why would not people who have a tax imposed on them say to themselves: 'Well, I am being taxed for this free public ward accommodation. I might as well use it. ' That is human nature. As I said a moment ago, many people will not be able to afford private insurance over and above the super tax. In Melbourne alone 1 ,000 additional public ward beds will be required overnight. How do we get 1,000 beds overnight? We cannot build a new hospital overnight. We can extend the waiting time for non-urgent surgery in public hospitals as they have had to do under the United Kingdom scheme upon which this scheme is modelled. One has to wait three to five years in the United Kingdom to have surgery for varicose veins, non-urgent gynaecological disorders, hernias and the like. Does the Labor Party want to impact that kind of scheme on Australia? the third possibility is that we commandeer private hospitals. I think that the great private hospitals run by philanthropic, charitable and religious organisations which have done a fantastic job for health care in this country are in immediate danger under this scheme. Does anybody in Melbourne believe that that great private hospital, the Mercy Hospital, or the equally great St Andrew's private hospital will remain immune? The Minister will commandeer, induce, seduce in some way beds from these hospitals. There is only one place in which these additional public ward beds will be required and under this Bill the Minister has power- time does not permit me to go into this- to do just that. 
This Bill makes the Minister for Social Security a latter day Don Corleone as far as the private hospitals are concerned. He can make them an offer. They cannot possibly refuse. No matter what the Minister says about doctor of own choice, if a great private hospital is half public and half private it is absurd to talk about a patient in the private section having the doctor of his own choice. That is a myth. I remind the people of Australia that this scheme cannot be paid for out of the 1.35 per cent levy. For every dollar the Government collects on that levy there has to be an extra $2 or more out of Consolidated Revenue. Who provides Consolidated Revenue? It is the taxpayers, and on to them this already over-expensive Labor Government is impacting a scheme which, according to an expert actuarial firm, is already under-costed by $300m or $400m per annum. The Minister will not cost his scheme. He is asking this Joint Sitting to pass an uncosted scheme, to give him a blank cheque. 

 Mr Chairman, we are not obstructionists. We have an alternative scheme. On 3 occasions in the 
House of Representatives I have said to the Minister that the Opposition supports increased money for public hospitals, we support assistance for people on low incomes with their insurance premiums and we support a great number of proposals in his health scheme; and I have appealed to him to adopt a bi-partisan approach on these matters. If he does that, the Opposition will give him every co-operation. But he has not done so. I plead with him to drop this crazy costly scheme. It will not improve the nation's health. It depersonalises medical care. It offers patients public wards when 80 per cent of people have shown clearly that they want private ward accommodation. It adds massively to costs at a time when cost increases are destroying our way of life. 
Why does the Government not realise that it cannot keep spending money as though it is going out of fashion? The Treasury coffers are not some bottomless pit into which some mystical goose continues to lay golden eggs. The ordinary, hard working Australian is the person who has to pay for socialist extravagances. The fact of life that this Government does not understand is that there are no mystical geese, although at times members of the Government Party seem desperately to be trying to imitate them, and there are no golden eggs. The Labor Government has ruined everything it has touched in the past 18 months. It can meddle with and ruin everything else it touches, but I plead with it not to meddle with the nation's health. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who is the officer responsible for administering the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What is his age. 
) What are his formal qualifications. 
What is his experience in community affairs. 
What is his experience in Government financial methods. 
What is his classification. 
I seek to move an amendment. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
On a point of order. I strongly resent that reflection which you just made on this side of the House when you said - 

 - Mr Speaker, you will not sit me down on this. You said no one on this side of the House was interested. 
Question put: 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. I hope he will recognise it has the refreshing novelty of being non-political. My question concerns retailers' mark-ups. It has particular reference to the reported profit of the Myer emporium, which exceeded $27m. I would like the Prime Minister to reaffirm that the activities of retail mark-ups do come within the scope of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Joint Parliamentary Committe on Prices. If I presented evidence to the honourable gentleman that the company that I have mentioned bought a large quantity of cheese cloth blouses from India at $1.62 each and sold them over the counter for up to $8 each, would he have inquiries made to establish that this is a king sized rip off which benefits neither the Indian worker nor the Australian consumer? Would he agree that action such as this negates the intention of both the cottage industry imports scheme and the 25 per cent cut in tariffs which the Government introduced last year, and also seriously adds to inflation. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning rates for pensioners. The Prime Minister would be aware of the Opposition's claim that inflation running at the rate before that disclosed by the recent rise in the Consumer Price Index would be such that it would reduce the value of the pension to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings, when the Government has promised to increase the pension next autumn. This was disclosed in the speech on the Budget made by the Leader of the Opposition. I now ask the Prime Minister, as the Leader of the Government: Will he have some compassion for the pensioners? Will he take into account the astronomic rise in the cost of living as disclosed by the CPI figures? Will he realise that pensioners by next autumn will be in a hopeless financial position and will the Government do something now to alleviate their plight? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Community Council in Fairfield /Liverpool and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Community Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What Australian Assistance Plan submissions from local bodies have been rejected in part or totally. 
What were the reasons for rejection, and from what bodies did they come. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will he provide an outline of all methodology being employed in all social analysis work being undertaken by or through the Social Welfare Commission for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
asked the Minister for Social Secur ity, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Western Region Council for Social Development, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Manly Warringah Social Welfare Co-ordinating Committee, and what organizations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the South West Sydney Regional and Development Council and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrativecosts. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Regional Council for Social Development (Brisbane), and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
what are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
-The Social Services Bill (No. 3) contains twelve or more amendments to the Social Services Act. The Opposition supports all of the measures. Our criticisms of the Government in relation to this Bill are not related to what is contained in it but to what is omitted from it. 
-The omissions from this Bill - 
-The Minister for Social Security has an obsession with the past. Of all people in  this Government, which is now in complete and utter disarray, he would better serve the country and the areas of social need if he was not obsessed with the past, if he was conscious of the present and had some sympathy for the future of the people whom he is supposed to be caring for. One of the interesting aspects of this Bill is that here is another example of the Government stealing Opposition policy. It has stolen Opposition policy, as expressed in the booklet 'The Way Ahead', virtually in every area, including the economy and social welfare. That is why we support the various measures outlined in the Bill. For the sake of the record I would like briefly to outline what is in the Bill. Before I do so I would like to give notice that the Opposition through the auspices of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will be moving an amendment which will virtually give the Government the opportunity of voting on a question which it prevented the House from voting on last week through what I described then as very shady tactics. 
We on the Opposition side regard as one of the greatest areas of social need the men, widowers and deserted husbands who have been left to care for young children. Virtually nothing is being done for them now. We believe something more should be done for them. We will move during this second reading debate an amendment which will force the Government to stand up and be counted so that people can see where it stands in relation to people who are in such tragic circumstances. I do not know why the Government is resisting our move because it is bad enough for a child to lose a father, it is bad enough to have the breadwinner leave the family, but when the child is deprived of the mother surely the area of need is as great as or even greater than is the case in the other circumstances. I will leave it to my friend the honourable member for Mackellar to develop this point further. 
This Bill raises the additional payment for each child of a pensioner by SOc a week to $5.50 a week. We would support that move. I think all honourable members would like to see a higher payment. We will support it at this stage. The Bill also raises the supplementary assistance benefit, which is the rent allowance for pensioners and sickness beneficiaries, by $ 1 a week to $5 a week. This supplementary assistance is payable to pensioners who are existing or living purely on the pension and who have to pay rent. This benefit was introduced to give these people some additional help because it was felt that they suffered a greater disadvantage than do people who own their own homes. This was one of the areas of need which was highlighted by the Henderson interim report. Honourable members will remember that the Henderson Committee recommended that the supplementary assistance benefit of $4 be doubled to $8 forthwith. The Government has had almost 12 months to contemplate that interim report but so far it has not moved on it. This Bill proposes to increase the supplementary assistance benefit by $ 1 , raising it to $5. Back in April the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  announced as joint Opposition party policy that in government we would immediately increase supplementary assistance by $2 a week and that we would also alleviate the savage, vicious means test which is applied to this benefit. If the Minister wants to try to make a point by saying that that means test was introduced and maintained by a Liberal Party government of the past I would accept that and I would be as critical of that government for maintaining that test as he now is. I know that many honourable members on this side of the House would be equally critical of it, but there would not be one honourable member on this side of the House now who does not agree that it is vicious and savage, that it should be alleviated and that pensioners in this situation should be assisted. 
Their position is now even further exacerbated by the disaster that is now the housing industry. We regard many Ministers as being not disasters but catastrophes, and one of the greatest catastrophes to grace the floor of this House is the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  The kind of effrontery and arrogance with which he conducts himself in saying that the housing industry in Australia has never been better is to us mind boggling. The fact is that because of the enormous and exorbitant rates of interest that young couples have to pay now, the skyrocketing prices of housing and the enormous deposit gap that young people have to find, the number of new nouses being built in Australia has taken a sudden downturn. That is bad enough. But the by-product of this situation is that more and more people will have to apply for rented dwellings. As the demand for this type of accommodation increases the law of supply and demand will come into operation and the level of rents will increase all the time. At a time when rents are increasing and the purchasing power of the pension is being eroded the Government has introduced legislation to provide an extra $1 a week in supplementary allowance to pensioners. 
The Government has taken this action notwithstanding that the Henderson Committee recommended that the level of supplementary allowance should be increased by $4 to $8. 
The Bill also proposes to raise the double orphan 's benefit by $ 1 to $ 1 1 a week. The joint Opposition Parties policy document entitled 'The Way Ahead ' published in April-May of this year contains a commitment that the Opposition immediately on regaining government will double the orphans benefit of $10 a week. The Minister went on with a long spiel in his speech about the situation of children who have lost both parents or one parent and the other parent cannot be found. He makes out an eloquent case that they should be helped. But what does he do? He proposes to give them $1 a week extra at a time when $1 will hardly buy a packet of cigarettes. I am in agreement with one point made by the Minister when he was speaking about the double orphans benefit. The Minister mentioned that in the past his Government has increased social service benefits only to see the State governments reduce their welfare benefits by an equal amount. I join with him in deploring that practice. I hope, like he does, that the additional benefits brought about by this Bill will not be eroded by State governments reducing payments to beneficiaries. 
The Bill introduces a handicapped children's allowance of $10 a week. This amount will be payable to the parents or guardians of a mentally or physically handicapped child cared for in a family environment and requiring constant attention. We thoroughly support this benefit. Again, this proposal was contained in the publication 'The Way Ahead' published by the Opposition parties in April-May of this year. As I have said, we thoroughly support this new and novel benefit. I thank the Minister and his staff for giving me a short paper which deals with the administration procedures to be followed in respect of claims made for this benefit. The Minister will remember that I asked for this information when I sought the adjournment of the debate last week after the Minister had delivered his second reading speech. This information is not generally available to members of the House. However, it states: 
When the claim form is received by the Department it will be referred to an Australian Government Medical Officer who will examine the child and certify whether or not in his opinion the child is handicapped to a degree that qualifies for the payment of the allownace 
What is the test applied by that doctor? It goes on to state: 
In practice the medical test for severe handicap will be on the basis that if the condition remained unchanged the child would be likely to qualify for invalid pension on attaining 1 6 years of age. 
I would like to point out that that is a rather stringent test. The memorandum goes on to state that this will be flexible. I sympathise with the Department and the Minister because this is a relatively new benefit and I would hope that in practice it is administered with great sympathy and flexibility rather than with severity. I would think that that test would be too severe for justice to be served. 
One wonders too how an autistic or hyperactive child would be regarded under that test. One would think that it would be doubtful whether an autistic or hyperactive child would be considered 'sick' enough to qualify for an invalid pension at the age of 16 years. But those of us who have had experience with such children know that a family with such a child quite often desperately needs the kind of assistance that is envisaged in this Bill. One wonders in those cases whether the parents or guardians of such children will be disqualified from receiving benefit. Again I make an appeal on behalf of the Opposition for the Government to administer this benefit with sympathy. 
The Bill also introduces an incentive allowance for disabled people employed in sheltered workshops so that their earnings do not cause an immediate reduction in other allowances. This incentive allowance of $5 a week is paid in lieu of supplementary assistance and will be free of a means test. We would thoroughly agree with this proposal. Again this is a direct steal from the Liberal-Country Party policy contained in 'The Way Ahead' announced in April-May where the whole emphasis of our policies was to give incentive to these people to become meaningful citizens in the community. I would have liked to have seen an announcement by the Minister such as that contained in our policy document 'The Way Ahead' that the Government was looking at ways of giving incentives to factories to employ handicapped people. It is good that an incentive allowance is to be paid in respect of disabled people employed in sheltered workshops. But in our view that is not the end of the story because direct encouragement should be given to industry to employ these people. They should not only be encouraged to work in sheltered workshops but at a certain stage they should be able to go out into the community like everyone else and take their place side by side with other members of the work force who are not so handicapped. 
The Bill seeks the abolition of a residence qualification for invalid pensioners where permanent incapacity or blindness occurred in Australia. We thoroughly agree with that reform. Further, the Bill proposes an easing of residence qualifications for women who apply for a widow's pension or a supporting mother's benefit. We agree with that. The Bill also seeks to extend the Mother's allowance and the additional pension for children to Class B widows who have the custody, care and control of any child. We agree with that. It also seeks to extend the benefits to de facto wives of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries on a basis similar to that of de facto wives of pensioners. We agree with that. 
The Bill proposes the removal of the anachronistic sections of the Social Services Act which refer to the needs for beneficiaries to be of good character or deserving of a pension. We agree with that. One would have thought that the Minister, who constantly seems obsessed with our policies, had just read that reference in 'The Way Ahead ' which states: 
We must look at social welfare in a wider context than that of dispensing charity to the disadvantaged. The Liberal and Country Parties will work to remove the stigma attached to people in receipt of assistance to ensure that they do not feel like ' patients ', or people receiving ' handouts '. 
-The Minister is still obsessed with the past. I wonder why someone behind him does not tell him that this is 1974. His Government has been in office for 2 disastrous years, has rent this nation, created chaos and has disadvantaged old people, young people and every section of the community. Will he please stop looking backwards? Will he please bring forward a diagnosis of today's situation which his Government has created, and do something about the future? Forget the past- that was years ago. Today we are in 1974, and the Opposition has policies that will be acceptable to the Australian people. 
The Bill also provides for the payment to handicapped children undergoing vocational training as part of their rehabilitation of new rates of allowance comparable to those paid under the national employment and training scheme. We would agree with that and a number of other minor changes necessitated by the abolition of radio listeners' and television viewers' licences. I mentioned that we are critical of this Bill not for what it contains but for what it does not contain. For example, has the Minister considered the proposition raised in the joint Opposition Parties policy document entitled 'The Way Ahead' that the maternity allowance for the first child should be doubled to $60? Does he not concede that that is desirable in today's society? 

-The honourable member for Corio is also obsessed with the past. I would like to tell him that times change and circumstances change. The title of the Opposition policy booklet is 'The Way Ahead'. We on this side of the House are now looking to the future, to the way ahead, not delving into the past, going back to 1943. I thought that the interjection by the honourable member for Corio was pathetic in a debate on a Social Services Bill in 1974. If that is the best he can do by way of interjection I suggest that he consider not interjecting again. Does the Minister not agree that in these times when the great majority of wives continue to work after they are married, and when young couples make commitments, buy television sets and furniture and borrow heavily to buy a home - 
-The honourable member says: 'Not these days'. That is quite right. I dealt with that earlier. It is not possible for them to do it. But they go ahead budgeting, and if a child arrives whether planned or not, that first child imposes a massive burden. The family suffers the loss of an income. At the outset both husband and wife would have been working but once the wife becomes pregnant only the husband would have continued working and the wife's income would have been lost. What about the costs involved with a first child? One only has to mention the pram, the bassinet, the clothing and the enormous medical expenses. I believe that we should be considering people in that situation and that we should at least double the maternity allowance for the first child. 
We would like to see a survey conducted into the leisure needs of elderly people, and the needs of the unemployed youth, whose numbers will be so great in January and February next year that they will represent a very difficult social problem. We would like to see meals on wheels services extended. We would like to see home care for the elderly expanded, and so on. What action has the Government taken on the Henderson report? 
The report recommended massive changes in child endowment. What has the Government done about that? Is it waiting for the November report? The Government has given no indication of its intentions. 
-We have the question of child endowment under deep study. We are now investigating the possibility of means testing it by making it taxable. We are also investigating increasing certain payments. What is the Government doing in this area? What are its thoughts on child endowment? What are its thoughts on imposing a means test so that the endowment goes to those people who really need it? Has it any ideas in this area on which Henderson has placed a high priority? Why has the Government not abolished the 7-day waiting period for the payment of unemployment and sickness benefits? This is part of Liberal and Country Party policy. We are committed to do that. The Minister smiles, but a smile is not a good enough answer. I have been told by every responsible social welfare organisation in the country that this is an area of need. There are mechanical problems associated with it. 
The Minister, instead of smirking or smiling, should note that action in the area of child endowment has been recommended by the Henderson Committee and by all responsible social welfare organisations. Why does he not say that administrative difficulties stand in the way, if this is so? Why does he not say that the Government has examined them? Is there any basic reason why a person sacked from bis job- unhappily under this Government's policies the number of people in that situation is increasing- should have to wait a week before he gets any relief? I would have thought that a Government should have the wit and ability to devise a system whereby that waiting period could be abolished. I know that there are dangers that such a system could be abused. Maybe the welfare organisations could be deputed as agents to pay the money out in trust and then substantiate their claims with the Department of Social Security. The Henderson Committee has indicated that a great number of low income earners on the breadline with a wife and several children to support and who are suddenly sacked can experience deep hardship in the week following their sacking. What is the Government doing about the mother's or guardian's allowance? The Henderson report recommended that it be increased to $8. It is still $4. 
In conclusion, might I say that the real need for the aged is to safeguard the retired people and to preserve the value of their earnings and savings. Is the Government doing this? Has the Government in its 2 years of office preserved the savings and incomes of aged people or has it allowed them to be eroded? Yesterday I asked the Prime Minister whether, because of the astronomical rise in the cost of living in the last quarter, he would shift from the Government's undertaking not to increase pensions until autumn, which will be March, April and May of next year. Since the Government last increased pensions there has been a 5.4 per cent increase in the cost of living. Is there to be another similar increase in the cost of living next quarter? If so, will the Government do nothing to recompense pensioners for that? 
Much is made of the promise that the Labor Party will increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. This is absolute rubbish. Earlier this year the Government gave a massive increase of $5 a week to pensioners and for a few days the new pension of $3 1 represented 24 per cent of average weekly earnings in the June quarter. But the increase did not take effect until the September quarter, and by then average weekly earnings had risen, on a conservative guess, by a further 6 per cent to $134 a week. At the time that the $31 was paid it was worth only 23 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Budget indicates that average weekly earnings will increase by 22.5 per cent in 1974-75. The increase could well be higher if the Government introduces wage indexation on top of the current rates of inflation. By the June quarter of 1975 therefore average weekly earnings will be more than $155 and the $31 a week pension will be less than 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
I do not have the services of departmental spokesmen sitting in the chamber. I do not have any research officers. However, competent officers of the Department of Social Securities are sitting in this House now ready to advise the Minister. I challenge him to deny that figurethat by autumn of next year, when he increases pensions again, pensions as a percentage of average weekly earnings will be lower than 20 per cent, which makes his promise - 
Which breaks another promise by the Government. It is just no good denying it. I would like the Minister to respond in a responsible way to the figures I have just given. The increase needed by that time to bring the pension up to 25 per cent will be at least $8 and when it does get to $8 the Minister will be forced to pay it and then will come into this House and big note himself and his Government, saying that this is the biggest pension increase ever granted in the history of Australia. Well, it would be, and why the hell should it not be, if inflation now is higher than at any time during the last 20 years? 
The Minister is regarded as being one of the heavies in Cabinet. One wonders whether he is when one looks at figures. In the 1973-74 Budget the increase in social security and welfare payments was 18.4 per cent; the overall expenditure in all of the other items was 20.2 per cent. No matter how much the Minister comes into this House and says: 'Look what we are doing in the area of social welfare', what he got for his Department in Cabinet in the Budget was less than the Minister for Tourism and Recreation got. Does this Government regard building toilets on a cricket field or sponsoring a tour of some obscure sporting group from Perth to Sydney as being more important and having higher regard than the lot of the pensioners? 
To be fair, in the 1974-75 Budget the increase in social security and welfare payments was 38 per cent, but nevertheless it was less than the increase for education, for urban and regional development, for culture- whatever that means, and we know that there have been massive increases in expenditure in the name of culture in recent times- and indeed for recreation. Recreation, this pork-barrelling that is going around the country- is that more important than the Government concerning itself with the lot of the poor? The poor are the worst hit by inflation in this country and they should get a higher priority than urban and regional development, than buying paintings at $lm each, than obscure sports meetings all round the country. 
As I said at the beginning, the Opposition supports the provisions of this Bill but it criticises the Government very heavily for what is not in the Bill, because it is conscious that many pensioners have been subjected recently to significant tax increases, both direct and indirect. Many pensioners will be hard hit by the property earnings surcharge. The Government has reneged on its promise to abolish the means test. It has deferred that promise. The capital gains tax which has been introduced on estates will worry many elderly people. The Opposition asks the Government, asks the Minister, to look at these areas of social need which the Opposition has pointed to and to see if the Minister can give the House some indication of future Government policy on them. 
-The House is now debating the National Compensation Bill which could be described as one of the most significant social measures to have been brought into this House. It tries to cover one of the most significant areas of social need in the community. The Opposition recognises that need when it is built around the context of examining the number of people in Australia who are killed or injured or who become sick each year. For the magnitude of the position and its ramifications Australia-wide to be more simply understood one need only look at some of the figures in the report of the committee of inquiry set up by the present Govenment- the Woodhouse Committee. It said that every year 3,600 Australians are killed on the roads alone; that more than 90,000 are injured; that 5 times as many are victims of work accidents, and that even larger numbers are casualties elsewhere. If the figures are accurate it requires only a simple arithmetical calculation to ascertain that about 1 million Australians are either killed or injured annually. The consequences of that occurring cannot be properly quantified. I have referred only to figures concerning the number killed and injured. I suggest that it is a proper deduction from the Woodhouse report to say that much larger numbers in the Australian community are affected by sickness, but I believe that no accurate figures for that class can be obtained from the report. 
Having stated the amount of sickness and injury that does occur, let me come now to the areas of social need which this Bill tries to remedy. I see no justice in the fact that a man who died of a heart attack 5 minutes after returning home would not be covered by compensation but if he had died from the same complaint 5 minutes earlier while on his way home from work he would be covered by workers compensation. I can see no justice in a boy or young man who sustains some injury playing football and who becomes a paraplegic or a quadraplegic- all of us have known examples of this happeninggetting no compensation whereas a young man who arrives at work virtually drunk and who, because of his own indiscretions, injures himself and becomes a paraplegic or a quadriplegic would be covered by workers compensation. People can be and have been injured playing sport, swimming, ski-ing, in the homehousewives have accidents- and so on. At present they would not be covered by compensation. Admittedly if they do become sick they are eligible for social service benefits, but in that respect they all would have to meet a means test. The compensation for pain, injury and suffering to those people is non-existent. 
The Opposition recognises in a flash that this is a great area of social need and that something must be done about it. We also concede the weaknesses in the present system, as outlined in the report. The report does classify and identify the weaknesses under the present system. But we as members of Parliament did not need the report because all of us during our constituency work have had brought to our attention tragic case after tragic case of people who have been injured and who have had to wait a long time for satisfaction or who have received no satisfaction at all. Under the present system there are delays - sometimes inordinate delays- in people seeking justice. There is a delay of up to 4 years in the courts and there are delays for other reasons. We know that people are subjected to enormous ex- pense if they unfortunately become injured or become sick. Then there is that horrid period of uncertainty between the time of the injury or sickness and the wait for the litigation or other processes to be completed. Then if they do not receive what they believe they should receive there is disappointment. All of those emotional experiences- the delay, the expense, the uncertainty and the disappointment- are bad enough if an ordinary, healthy person suffers them. But what happens to people who have already suffered and sustained some injury or sickness. We recognise that that is a weakness. 
There is also the incongruity that a person who has suffered some terrible injury or illness should then have to go through the process of suing. One would look at that as being some additional punishment that one has to suffer to get justice. The delay is not only frustrating and aggravating but also inhibits rehabilitation from an illness or a sickness. I am not happy about the large amounts that go in legal fees in the course of people seeking justice in compensation for injury or sickness. 
I am not satisfied with the efficiency of some insurance companies and with the high expense ratio that they have to maintain their business. Notwithstanding how much we might champion the jury system, I am not happy- I do not think anybody is- about some of the irresponsible decisions handed down by juries from time to time. 
For all that, the Opposition recognises that there is a great need for reform in this area and the Opposition Parties have organised a group of experts- an expert committee- to look at means of overcoming the weaknesses and the bad things about the present scheme. In particular we are looking at that sort of legislation which is now operating in Victoria and Tasmania. But any scheme must be fair, it must be equitable and it must not be arbitrary. In particular it must not rely or rest on the arbitration of a civil servant with no redress to any judicial functions being available. We see virtue in the elimination of the need to prove fault. That is not part of the report or of the Bill which we necessarily criticise. I believe that it is essential that some form of 24-hour coverage be introduced to cover injury. I believe that there should be an extension of the payment of compensation for sickness and congenital disability. But where is the justice, if we say that we are concerned in this country about the human race, in a person born with some hideous congenital disability not being compensated for it? Does the elimination of the right to sue, as contained in this Bill, achieve that result? Does it achieve justice? Does the elimination of the right to receive lump sums of money in certain cases bring justice? I suggest that it does not. We would like an examination to see whether a dual scheme is possible. Is it possible to have the elimination of the need to prove fault and the retention of the right to sue at common law? I noticed that even the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  was posing this very question himself only last week in a letter to the Melbourne 'Age '. 
Because this is such a basic area and such an important area- it is the most significant area of social need that we have- the Opposition has authorised me to say that we deplore the absurd haste with which this Bill is being thrust through this House. If anything is the action of a panic stricken government gone mad, this is it. It is the action of a panic stricken government which we know it is. 
-The Minister says that it is not. He is being loyal to his Prime Minister. I happen to know that the Minister in charge of this legislation,  Senator Wheeldon,  desperately wants this legislation to be suitable and has expressed publicly on several occasions that he would want this legislation to lay on the table of the House for a considerable period so that it could be criticised and discussed. I know that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made some sort of statement last week that he would want consultations with people concerned with compensation. But no; here we have the timetable. The report, which is an enormous document of 3 volumes, was tabled last July. After promising that the Bill would lay on the table, be discussed and that the Government would receive criticisms, comment and suggestions about it, we find that the Bill was introduced on 3 October, just 3 weeks ago. All the time, the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation is saying that the Government wants discussion. There was no suggestion that the Bill was going to be brought on at this time. 
Then we have the incredible statement by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table now, in his second reading speech that the Government was not necessarily wedded to all that is in the report and that it would want to hear the views of trade unions, of housewives and of organisations. And he was charitable enough even to include the Opposition in that request. What does the Minister do? He says: 'I want consultation. I want criticism. ' This debate is brought on at 2. 1 5 p.m. and we are told that the Minister wants the Bill by 10 o'clock tonight. This is the most significant piece of social reform that has been introduced into this House for some time. 
The mind boggles at the action which the Government has taken. Last night I received a pretty grotty sort of publication from the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation informing me that there were to be 46 amendments to the Bill and that they were to be introduced today. We did not have a copy of the amendments last evening. We received them only at about 11 o'clock this morning. There are 9 amendments which, according to the Minister's words 'relate to the proposed phased introduction of the scheme'. There are 20 amendments that are formal drafting amendments, many involving cross references which have to be altered. There are 17 amendments which, in the Minister's own words, 'involve matters of principle'. We find 46 amendments are to be moved; we are expected to debate these and to pass the Bill today in this House. These amendments, which occupy 7 typewritten pages, were presented to honourable members just before lunch. 
The compendium- I hold it up so that the House can see it- is a document of more than 270 foolscap pages. I received it only last Thursday. Not only that but we had the rather quaint explanation from the Minister in the Senate on 17 October that there were not enough copies to go around, so he was laying a copy on the table of the House; and he expected the compendium on which the whole cost of the scheme is based to be ready some time 'next year'. 
Here is the Government introducing a scheme which will cost $ 1,700m a year- that is the Government's own figure, not mine- and the Government asks us to pass the legislation without having the advantage of seeing copies of the report on which it is based. We are told that those copies will not be printed until next year. This is one of the most disgraceful of the many disgraceful acts that this Government has forced on to this Parliament. I am beginning to wonder why the Government calls Parliament together at all. It is reducing Parliament to an absolute and utter farce with its tactics. I would hope that those champions of democracy up there in the Press gallery, who ridiculed us for years any time we gagged a motion, might for once look at this example of jackboot democracy, if one could call it that, and blow up for the public to contemplate the actions of the Government. 
Therefore, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House is of the opinion that, while recognising the obvious area of social need of sick and injured persons which this Bill seeks to assist, the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted because: 
it creates gross inequities for people and between people; 
it abolishes basic existing rights of people, substitutes apparent benefits which are not described with clarity and which are at the unfettered discretion of bureaucrats, and leaves many people worse off than under their existing legal rights; 
the cost to the Australian people has not been properly assessed or debated nor has its method of funding yet been decided or announced; 
it has been so hastily and incompletely drawn that already 46 Government amendments have been circulated, and 
trade unions, employers, welfare organisations and interested community group have not had an opportunity of presenting their views '. 
-by leave-As I said earlier, the Opposition believes that not enough representations and submissions have been made about this Bill by interested organisations. Several Opposition speakers have indicated that they are not necessarily against the concepts of the BUI. In fact, many speakers have said that they have great sympathy for much of the philosophical thrust of the Bill. The Opposition is not being obstructionist but it sincerely believes that the Bill should be referred to a select committee as was the New Zealand Woodhouse Committee report. Paragraph (b) of standing order 22 1 states that: 
Immediately after the second reading- 
a motion 'That this Bill be referred to a select committee' may be moved; 
I give notice that at present it is my intention so to move. If the Special Minister for State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  wants to respond and indicate his reaction to that proposal we will grant him leave. I suggest that there should be no necessity for him to push this Bill through to a second reading division tonight. I would suggest that if the Bill is referred to a select committee its terms of reference should be reasonable. It should examine whether there are any alternatives to the Woodhouse proposals; it should examine the validity and accuracy of the Woodhouse report's statistical and costing assumptions and consider alternative methods of funding, because the Government has not yet determined its own ideas on funding; it should examine the effects of any such scheme on the insurance industry together with proposals to offset such effects; and the committee should be given a reasonable time tin which to conduct its inquiries. The Committee could be a select committee of this House or, if the Minister prefers, a joint committee of both Houses. The committee should not be expected to report within any ridiculous time such as a month or 6 weeks. Although many Opposition members support the concept and philosophical thrust of thus Bill and its proposals to care for people who have no adequate cover, I do not think any honourable member would be prepared to vote for it as it is presently presented to the House. For those reasons I hope that the Minister will respond, and respond with sweet reason. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmithSpecial Minister of State)- by leave- I appreciate the position of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  raised this matter. I have discussed it with the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  and I can indicate that the Bill will go to a Senate committee. That is the arrangement he has made. We are convinced, for all the reasons I have mentioned, that there has been an adequate examination. We are very suspicious of the fact that we are meeting so much objection. We would have thought that this Bill could have gone through. 
I was not political in my statement. Play the game. 

No he did not. He said a joint committee. 
How long? 
Three weeks. 
You will be welcomed and accommodated. 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Chipp's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
-In conformity with the Standing Orders, I move: 
That this Bill be referred to a select committee. 
I shall not detain the House for long, but I want to make a fundamental point of principle. I join with the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who advocates that this Bill should be referred to a committee of this House. I hope I am not misrepresenting him. I join with the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  who today also said that he wants it referred to a committee. I speak on behalf of all honourable members on this side of the House when I say that this question should go to a committee for the reasons that I have given previously. I ask: Why is the Government suddenly shy about forming a select committee of this House to inquire into something of such significant social importance? We would settle for a joint committee of both Houses. Here we have a Party that denigrates the Senate, that is always speaking against Senate committees and alleged Senate interference with the rights of Parliament, that is dedicated to the abolition of the Senate - 
A Government supporter- Oh, shut up. 
MrSPEAKER-Order! 

 - Mr Speaker, will you not ask for that to be withdrawn? 
We have been pondering why the Government is so reluctant to have this House set up a House of Representatives committee to investigate this Bill. It is not a simple Bill. It is not a machinery measure. By the Government's own costing this scheme is estimated to cost this nation at its plateau level $ 1,700m per annum. Also, as I think my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and other speakers have suggested, it can change the whole social fabric of this nation. There has not been sufficient time for this House or the community of Australia to contemplate and discuss the ramifications of this legislation. The report was tabled in July. As I said before, in New Zealand it was something like 2 or 3 years after the proposal went to a select committee before the legislation was presented for a vote in the Parliament of that country. This Bill was not presented here until 3 October, just 3 weeks ago. It was not until 11 o'clock this morning that I received the 47 Government amendments to this 
Bill which would appear to add massively to the cost of the scheme. I thought that as an opposition we were being reasonable in saying: 'Look, why do you not refer this to a committee of the House to investigate the fundamental things that this Bill tries to do? ' I cannot understand why the Government is reluctant to accept our proposal. Is the Government fair dinkum about having a look at this? 
-Why do you want the Bill put through tonight if you are fair dinkum? What purpose is served by ramrodding this through this House tonight and saying that you will send it to a committee for 3 weeks? How fair dinkum are you? 
If honourable members opposite think that we are going to fall for a confidence trick like that and that the Opposition will support this legislation without a vote and without a fight at this stage and then be able to throw that up because of some cheap, tawdry, insincere deal involving sending this to a committee for 3 weeks then they have bargained wrongly. I wonder whether this device, this lolly or this sugarcoated pill is not a move to allow the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to go out at the next election, which Bob Hawke tells him he can expect in April, and say to the people that here is another instance of Senate obstructionism. Why will the Government not put this matter to a committee of this House? What is the reason for suddenly having this obsession about senatorial rights and the rights of that chamber? I will mention one of the many examples which have been given. As my friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  said today, 'Do the provisions of this Bill add to the cost of providing benefits for people who are injured?' Does it add to the delay? I thought the honourable member put a very persuasive and eloquent argument to indicate that it does add to delay and that it does add to the cost. The more reasonable people on the Government side of this House would concede that there might be some validity in that view. We do not know; we suspect it. But why not find out by sending this to a committee first? The 
Government does not want this legislation to operate until 1 July 1976. Yet it is asking us with one hour's notice to pass it in about 3 or 4 hours in this House after 47 amendments. We are sincere and we test the opposition to this measure. We test the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  We test the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn).  We test them on this occasion to vote in favour of the motion that this House appoint a select committee, which it has the power to do under the Standing Orders. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Steering Committee for Est.-Southern Region Council for Social Development and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Interim Committee of Loddon-Campaspe Regional Council for Social Development and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council, and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Ballarat Council of Social Services and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Broadmeadows Welfare Advisory Committee and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Committee and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Outer Western Region Investigation Committee and what organizations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Committee and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Interim Committee Regional Council (Northampton Sub-region), and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Interim Board of Southern Region Social Development and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to. be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Board and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Regional Council for Eastern Goldfields (Kalgoorlie) and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
3 ) What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Newcastle Community Development Group, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Group and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Tamworth and District Social Service Council, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the persons involved in the other two studies of regionalism, viz.: (a) social analysis of the Moreton Region and (b) social analysis of Sydney, to assist in the determination of sector boundaries for social planning purposes. 
What is their budget, and when will the results be known. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Central Coast Social and Welfare Co-ordination Council and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Social Development Board for Gladstone, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Board and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Mackay Council of Social Welfare and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Townsville Welfare Council and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
-That is a deliberate untruth and you know it. That is a lie. 

 - Mr Speaker, in deference to you I withdraw the statement that it was a lie and I substitute the words that it was a deliberate untruth. 
asked the Minister for  Social Security,  upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Rockhampton Social Welfare Development Planning Council, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial year, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Bundaberg Regional Council for Social Service and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Albury-Wodonga Regional Council for Social Development and what organizations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administration costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Northern Tasmanian Regional Council for Social Development, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Interim Planning Committee Southern Region Tasmania, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Committee and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Central Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Interim Regional Council (N.T. Council of Social Service), and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements, over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
3 ) What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Interim Regional Council (Katherine Community Action), and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the qualifications of the 6 experts in social science who are evaluating the Australian Assistance Plan, and what was their detailed evaluation of their meeting which was stated to have taken place in February 1974. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Steering Committee, Westernport Regional Council for Social Development and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the precentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the costs and time scale for each of the 12 stages envisaged for regional councils for social development to be fully operational. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the regional councils for social development, what proportion of the costs of the first 3 years will be given to stage 12- the provision of services for projects overall, and how much will be given over to the other 1 1 stages which are largely administrative. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Wagga Wagga Community Action Group, and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Group and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the budget of, and what results have been obtained by, Professor C. P. Harris in developing a scale to measure inter-regional differences in social needs. 
What is the budget of, and what results have been obtained by, Professor Harris in evaluating the present role of local government throughout Australia in providing personal welfare services. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Whyalla Regional Social Development Board and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
An Interim Steering Committee has recently been formed to incorporate the entire Northern Spencer Gulf Region, not just the Whyalla sub-region as is now the position. 
The Whyalla Regional Social Development Board was approved to receive administration grants only in the pilot period of the Australian Assistance Plan of $5,000 in 1973-74 and up to $40,000 ($30,000 for staff salaries and $10,000 for other administrative costs) for 1974-75 as proposed in the Budget 1974-75. Funding to be provided in 1975-76 has not, as yet, been determined. Budgetary requirements of the Board are estimated at $20,000 per annum. A staff of 2 is envisaged- Social Planner and Stenosecretary. The $20,000 per annum is for administrative purposes only. 
No projects have been planned by the Regional Council for Social Development for the Northern Spencer Gulf Region as the Regional Council is still at the Steering Committee stage. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Barwon Regional Council for Social Development and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Interim Regional Council (Alice Springs) and what organisations do they represent. 
What are the details of their budgetary requirements over the next 3 financial years, including the estimated staff and the percentage of expenditure to be given over for administrative costs. 
What are the projects planned by the Council and how many people will be catered for in each project in the first 3 years. 

 -Mr Speaker, we are debating 3 Bills- the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill, the Aged Persons Hostels Bill and the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Bill. I have music for the Minister's ears because not only is the Opposition going to support these 3 Bills but it is going to commend the Government and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for the reforms that have been included in the Bills. The charge is often made against the Opposition that it is obstructionist, that it opposes for the sake of opposing. I want to go on record as saying quite categorically that these are very commendable amendments that have been made in these 3 areas of social need. The Minister has a passion for quoting me; he has a passion also for speaking loudly while I am talking. The Minister has a passion for quoting me, not only in answer to questions and not only in the House but also in documents printed by his Department. He has an equal passion for misquoting me on occasion, and I do hope that the remarks I have just made at the opening of my speech commending the Government for these reforms are not used out of context, because we in the Opposition still find some areas in the Bills about which to be critical. Indeed, in relation to the Aged Persons Hostels Bill, in Committee I shall be moving an amendment to extend the operation of that Bill for another 2 years. 
-One thing about the Minister that does not improve is his sense of humour. The first Bill is the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill, the purpose of which is to give effect to one of the items mentioned in the Budget, that is, to increase the rate of subsidy payable under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act by 5c a meal. That is an increase from 20c to 25c a meal delivered, or 30c if the meal includes an approved vitamin C supplement. The Minister has not heeded my suggestion that he might include a subsidy for vitamin E. I might add that, as the Minister said, while many very good services are being developed in some States of the Commonwealth to supplement what we are doing, the Australian Government is far from satisfied with the rate of their growth. The Minister said that he hopes to examine ways and means by which a greater coverage of these services can be obtained. I agree with what the Minister said then, and I commend him for saying that he is looking at ways and means of getting greater coverage. 
I should also like on behalf of the Opposition to join with the Minister when he congratulates and thanks the hundreds- or is it thousands?- of volunteers around Australia for their continuing assistance in supporting the Meals on Wheels service. It is a selfless, sometimes thankless task of many hundreds or thousands of women who serve in an honorary capacity. The Minister also said that in many cases the social contact with the Meals on Wheels volunteer is as welcome to the aged recipient as is the meal. Both the Government Party and the Opposition Parties agree that it is best to keep aged people in their homes as long as possible, and the Meals on Wheels service allows that to be done. I believe that not only do the meals provide nutritional value for aged people but that the Meals on Wheels contact performs an even more important social function. To many old people living alone it is the only social contact they have for that day or that week. Those of us who live the kind of life we live can never appreciate the loneliness that there must be for an old person who is friendless, quite often without relatives, living alone without any social contact at all. I also commend the Government on the publications that it has issued- the Meals on Wheels Food Guide and the other publications which have been updated. 
The Opposition agrees with all this. But we are disappointed that the Government has not implemented that part of the Liberal policy- it is becoming quite tedious now that almost every day the Government is stealing Liberal-Country Party policy- in relation to Meals on Wheels, by which the Liberal Party wants the service extended to 365 days a year for certain elderly people for whom a doctor's prescription has been obtained. The Opposition believes that this is a service that would not cost very much and it is one part of its policy which it would implement as soon as it returned to office. 
The history of the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Bill is that under the Aged Persons Homes Act the Australian Government makes grants to non-profit organisations and local governing bodies towards the cost of providing homes for aged persons. When the Act was originally introduced by a Liberal Party-Country Party Government in 1954 the subsidy was on a $1 for $1 basis. In 1957 the rate of subsidy was increased to $2 for $1 and has remained at that level ever since. This Bill does 4 things, the first of which is to allegedly- and I say allegedlydouble the rate of the present subsidy from $2 for $1 to $4 for $1. 1 point out that this- I would not dare use a term such as lacking in honesty or deceitful as far as the Minister is concerned, but I would say that the promise of the $4 for $1 subsidy could be quite illusory. 
I am not happy with the maximum ceiling limits which are contained in the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill or the associated Bill. I believe that the maximum limit of $1 1,700 is unrealistic, in terms of today's building costs, for the building of such a unit. I had in fact drafted an amendment forcing the Minister to have as a floor $ 13,000 as a minimum amount of subsidy, but I withdrew that because I did not believe it was responsible to impact that kind of limitation on the Minister when I had not done the sort of detailed research that I should like to have done. Also, I understand that because of the Government's catastrophic economic policies there are many motels and the like coming onto the market because they are not economically viable and these are available for the Government to purchase and would make ideal aged persons' hostels. In those circumstances the cost of the units would be considerably less than $13,000. 
Can I illustrate how the $4 for $1 subsidy can be deceptive or illusory? Assuming the actual cost of a unit is $13,000- that seems to be a figure that is a median, according to those from whom I have inquired- the maximum subsidy on that is $9,360, which would mean that on a $4 for $1 basis the organisation would have to contribute $2,340. That makes a total of $1 1,700, which I submit is not enough to build a unit these days. This would mean that another $1,300 would have to be found by the voluntary organisation, which would mean that the relative contributions would be $9,360 from the Government and $3,640 from the voluntary organisation, making a total of $13,000. On that basis the rate of government subsidy is therefore not $4-for-$ 1 ; it is less than $3-for-$ 1 . 
In some areas, as my friend reminds me, it goes down as low as $2-for-$l. The second provision of the Bill is that it extends the provisions of the Aged Persons Homes Act to handicapped adults. Again we commend the Government for this enlightened move. Previously anybody under the age of 60 years was forbidden from being accommodated in an aged persons home if it attracted a subsidy. This impacted great hardship on many people. I am thinking of the elderly parent who has had a mongoloid child, for example, and who has nursed that child through to adulthood. When widowed that parent cannot be admitted to an aged persons home because she does not want to leave her mentally retarded child and she cannot take that child into the aged persons home. While we commend the proposition of opening aged persons homes to handicapped adults we would hope that it is not extended to the extent where teenagers are mixed up with elderly people as a matter of course. We are very aware of the multi-purpose institutions established by the Victorian government in the early 1900s. It is only in recent times that they have been slowly converted to special hospitals for the aged. It would be a retrograde step to go back to that era when they were multi-purpose institutions. We think it would be disastrous to make it a matter of course that such institutions take in young people. 
-I take the Minister's interjection and thank him for it. The third thing that the Bill does is to extend the personal care rate from $12 to $15 a week. This is absolutely necessary. As the Minister said, hostels play an important role by providing accommodation for elderly people who, whilst no longer able to look after themselves in independent units, do not need the more expensive medically oriented care provided by a nursing home. We would welcome this proposal but would ask the Minister to review it continually because the rate of inflation would soon erode the additional benefit given. 
The fourth measure in the Bill allows local councils to attract the subsidy on moneys borrowed. We welcome this proposal but we wonder what it is worth because, although this now allows a local council to attract the subsidy to build an aged persons home on moneys it obtains from loans, I am informed by many councils with whom I have spoken that they cannot get enough loan funds now to meet their other needs, and one would wonder what the practical benefit of this so-called reform is. However, we would support it on principle. 
The Minister also said that he wanted to make an announcement concerning the maximum subsidy limits payable under the Aged Persons Homes Act and the Aged Persons Hostels Act. These announcements were made following a report presented by a working party of officers of the Department of Social Security and the Treasury. It did essentially 5 things. First of all, it increased the maximum subsidy limits payable under the Aged Persons Homes Act to $7,800 for a single unit and $9,100 for a double unit. Secondly, it increased the subsidy limits for aged persons hostels to $11,700 for each person accommodated. We had contemplated, as I say, an amendment to that, but I was dissuaded from it for the reasons that I gave. Thirdly, the Minister announced that it had been decided that the present maximum subsidy limits which took effect from 1 April 1974 shall apply to projects which were in the course of construction at that date and, I presume, beyond that date. I would commend that proposition. Perhaps the most significant thing that the Government has adoptedand this has been largely through Opposition prompting- is that cost increases due to the rise and fall clause in building contracts in respect of work carried out since 1 April 1974 will be subsidised. If the Minister would look carefully at that paragraph and if I am any judge of the meaning of English words, I think he would find that the literal interpretation of it is that the rise and fall clauses would apply to those contracts between 1 April 1974 and the date upon which royal assent is given to this Bill. I would not imagine that that is what the Minister meant. I believe that the Minister meant that the rise and fall clauses in building contracts will now be a permanent feature of this subsidy legislation. I would like an assurance from the Minister on that point when he responds. 
The fifth announcement was that the introduction of zone loadings for country areas where building costs are abnormally high should be given further study. I think my friends in the Country Party and those rural members of the Liberal Party would join me when I say that this is one area in which we can be critical of the Government. Surely this proposition has been proved beyond doubt, namely, that to build an aged persons home in Rockhampton is more costly than building one in Brisbane. Why that would need so much further study, I do not know. In fact, the Seaman Committee of the Social Welfare Commission estimated that the cost of building an aged persons home in Rockhampton- my friend from Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  might support me in this- is 40 per cent higher than the cost of building an aged persons home in Brisbane. For how much longer is the Minister and his Department going to give this matter further study before some relief is given to these people? 
Finally on this BUI I would like to say that we believe that Australia needs a complete plan of aged care which includes accommodation as only one of its aspects. The present Aged Persons Homes Act and Aged Persons Hostels Act are isolated programs which, whilst good, should be seen in a complete picture. I would Uke to see the Government give more emphasis to preventive, remedial and rehabilitation programs, because the less emphasis there is given in those areas the more the need for flats, hostels, homes and nursing homes. Surely the whole thrust of a social security program should be to keep people as they are aging out of institutions, whether they be run by the State, whether they be run by the Government, or whether they be run by somebody else. One of the issues implicit in a debate such as this is the aged who cannot care for themselves. There are only 3 groups of people who can care for elderly people. They are the person's own family, a voluntary organisation or the State. One of the sad things about the 20th century is the nuclear family and the decline of the extended family unit which has left the field of caring for the aged largely in the hands of voluntary organisations or the States. Because of rising building costs the voluntary organisations are finding it more difficult to keep in the running. 
The Minister has indicated that the share of capital costs met by voluntary organisations over the last 4 years has fallen from 20 per cent in 1970-71 to 10 per cent in 1973-74. Donations from residents have increased to more than onequarter of the capital cost in the same period. An example of a percentage of total cost of aged persons homes is that in 1973-74 the Government contributed 61 per cent. The residents who were going into the home had to contribute 29 per cent and the voluntary organisations contributed 9.7 per cent. We believe that a voluntary organisation run by a charitable, religious or philanthropic institution is much to be preferred to a government institutionalised set-up. Therefore, if one accepts that, does it not make sense to encourage people to give to voluntary organisations? In a situation in which the proportion given by voluntary organisations is falling because of inflation we now have the position where absolute insanity is being floated by the Government about doing away with taxation deductions for donations to religious, philanthropic and other bodies. The Government has flown a . kite about this matter. It has flown it on more than one occasion. The Government has leaked out its intentions in its normal way awaiting some reaction. If the Government wants a storm around its head from every decent, public minded citizen in the community it should meddle with that because as soon as it starts meddling with the involvement of the citizen in caring for his fellow human being, so much less is the society in which those people five. 
-That gives me little comfort. I do not want to be a smart alec in retorting to that, but we do not know for how long the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is going to be Treasurer. We have had countless examples of Ministers making statements in this chamber about matters of policy and of those policies being reversed within days. 
There is one other point that I should make about who is paying for what proportion of the cost of homes. I share the Minister's concern that voluntary organisations, through no fault of their own, are contributing less and less to the capital costs. They are in charge of millions of dollars of buildings and equipment; yet their contributions are diminishing. I hope that from the statements that the Minister is constantly making on this matter he is not foreshadowing a further intrusion of the Government to the extent of running completely institutionalised aged persons homes. I believe that that would be a retrograde step to take in our community. 
In speaking of the importance of an aged persons homes scheme, I would like to pay a tribute to one organisation involved in this field, namely, the Italian Community Service Fund. This organisation has acquired 25 acres of land at South Morang in Victoria and wishes to set up a 3-stage complex for elderly Italians. This site has the advantage of being very central to the Italian population and of being large enough to allow for the development of a total care project which could include self-contained flats, hostel units and, ultimately, nursing care. Already one such complex has been funded at Austral in Sydney under the auspices of the Scalabrini Fathers. The problem that the Italian Community Service Fund is having is one which is common to the whole community, that is, of inflation leading to massive increases in building costs. The Italian Community Service Fund estimated in relation to the first stage, which was to be a self-contained units stage, that the cost as at June 1974 would be $13,500 per unit. However, by October 1 974- only 4 months later- the projected cost for each unit had risen to a staggering $16,075. I commend the Italian Community for its selflessness in doing that in the face of the fearful odds which are besetting the community. 
The third and final Bill is the Aged Persons Hostels Bill. The Opposition welcomes the amendments to the Aged Persons Hostels Act provided for in this Bill which was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972. But the Opposition fears that the amendments contained in this Bill are too little too late. We estimate that there are 50,000 pensioners who are neither in their own homes nor in some form of subsidised accommodation or paying reasonable rents. The immediate need for aged persons hostels has only to be stated to be proved. The legislation we are now debating is complementary to the Aged Persons Homes Act Eligible organisations receive entitlements on the basis of 2 beds for every unsubsidised bed they currently operate or one bed for every 2 beds subsidised in the first few years of the Aged Persons Homes Act on a$l for $1 basis. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's announcement of March, which has been referred to on a number of occasions since then, that the capital grant payable under the Aged Persons Hostels Act would be increased from $7,800 to $9,000 per person retrospective to 1 April 1974. In a subsequent statement the Minister has announced that that figure has been increased to $1 1,700. We agree with the Government that there is a need for more hostel accommodation for the aged, particularly for hostels in which personal care services can be provided for those who have become frail but do not need nursing attention. Unfortunately the lack of suitable hostel accommodation in the past has resulted in the less acceptable and more expensive nursing beds being utilised for such purposes. I share the Minister's concern about that. 
This Bill also seeks to do something progressive with which we are entirely in agreement. We know that many organisations which have entitlements under the Aged Persons Hostels Act do not propose to take advantage of them. That is for a variety of reasons. They might want to specialise in some other area of social need, they might not have the funds at that time or they might have some other reason. This Bill will allow a voluntary organisation to transfer its entitlement to another organisation. We thoroughly support that. In the period of the operation of the Act since 27 September 1972 hostel accommodation has been approved for 2,1 1 1 aged people. National entitlements to a total of 14,000 or more free hostel beds exist. In other words, with less than one year of the Act left to run options on 12,000 free hostel beds remain to be taken up by voluntary organisations. 
In the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill I will be moving an amendment which seeks to extend the period of operation of this Act for another 2 years. I appeal to the Minister, if I can have his indulgence for just 10 seconds, to contemplate the stupidity of refusing such an amendment. This legislation will cease to be an Act of Parliament at the end of September next year. The Minister has tried to window dress the situation to some extent by saying that these amendments will not operate from 1 January next year but from when the Bill receives royal assent. He has made a big deal of that. It is now mid-November. This Bill has to go through the Senate. It will not receive royal assent until the end of this month. So what is the Minister doing? He is saying to everybody: 'You have another month', as if that is some sort of great concession. 
Let us contemplate what is going to happen in the 10 months before this legislation ceases to be an Act of Parliament. There are 12,000 entitlements to beds under this legislation. Does the Minister seriously think that a voluntary organisation like the Brotherhood of St Laurence, like the Council for the Aged and like many Catholic, Jewish, Salvation Army and philanthropic societies would do a deal with another voluntary organisation, arrange a swapping of entitlements, call in architects, get plans prepared, obtain estimates, mount a public appeal and obtain the necessary funds by 27 September next year? The Minister must know that the period has to be extended. If he does not accept the Opposition's amendment he will not be giving any confidence to those voluntary organisations to start planning because those voluntary organisations have to spend real money and devote a whole lot of time to planning. 
In the State of Victoria public appeals are organised by the Hospitals and Charities Commission. The Brotherhood of St Laurence, for example, cannot decide to build some aged persons hostels and expect to be able to conduct a public appeal next month to raise $ 100,000 to do so because it is illegal to conduct an appeal in a month other than that which is allotted by the Hospitals and Charities Commission. It might not be until 1976 that an organisation can be allotted a month in which to conduct an appeal. I would like the Minister to contemplate acceptance of the Opposition's amendment so that these organisations can be given some assurance that they can go ahead and plan and spend money, confident that the Act will be continued. With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to get some indication from the Minister as to whether he would be prepared to accept such a sensible amendment from the Opposition. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence for 30 seconds? 
I will not abuse the situation; I will stick to 30 seconds. While regretting the 2 phases of the amendment, namely, that the priority has gone out of the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  and, secondly, the false eulogy that the Government has introduced, praising the Australian Government, and because the Opposition believes that this is such an important social issue and that there should be unanimity in this House on the issue, the Opposition will vote for the motion as amended. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I second the motion,  Mr Speaker.  Even with man's great intelligence and ingenuity there is one thing that he has never been able to do and there is one thing he will never be able to do, that is, to choose his own parents. We are each the product of a union of a man and a woman. We had no control of whom those 2 people were, where they might have been, what nationality they might have been, what their wealth might have been, what their educational or socio-economic status might have been. Therefore all human beings in one sense are either gynaecological or geographic accidents. This motion is brought forward by us today because this is a day on which non-government business can be brought on. We are hoping for a unanimous vote of the House expressing its view as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has stated. We know that the terms of the motion already have been adopted as a matter of principle by the Standing Committee of Australian and New Zealand Attorneys-General. It was announced in February of this year. We know that there could be difficulties in implementing it in forms of legislation because this itself takes time. But we on this side of the House believed that it would serve a useful purpose if this House of Parliament in Australia unanimously expressed a view on this social reform. About 20 seconds before I rose to speak I was handed a proposed amendment which I understand is to be moved by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby).  On the face of it, without my looking at it in depth, it appalls me that even in a matter like this the Government cannot stop playing dirty politics. The amendment proposes to omit - 

 - Mr Speaker, I will not canvass or transgress your ruling. But may I correct you? You have given a very correct ruling as a  Speaker  but you are wrong in practice because we will not be able to discuss this amendment if the Government follows its normal practice of gagging the debate as soon as the Minister for Manufacturing Industry has spoken. 
He says: 'That is the agreement'. 
-I will accept that,  Mr Speaker.  I just make the point that we will not be allowed to discuss the amendment because the Government will gag the debate as soon as the Minister has moved the amendment. I put it this way: If the Government contemplated introducing an amendment to this motion in words such as 'supports the Australian Government's decision to legislate', that to me is reducing the debate to the level of dirty politics while the Government is trying to get some sort of credit. Why on earth on general business day cannot the Government mix in with the Opposition and talk about these matters of social reform on a non-party, nonpartisan basis? Surely to God this is the forum of the nation and we can debate these things on a non-partisan basis from time to time. Therefore I am sorry that the Government has seen fit to introduce politics into this matter. 
Because of the position of wealth, nationality and our parentage we are what we are. Therefore it behoves those of us who one might call lucky to be born into a lucky and affluent country, a country which does not have the oppression, disease and poverty of some other countries, to feel sympathy for other people. That is why I was appalled this morning to hear the answer given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he boastfully said that we should be proud of our record of giving aid as announced by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  at the World Food Conference. We gave $16m in the form of wheat to Bangladesh in a week that fortuitously Australians bet $20m on one horse race. How that can be regarded as a generous contribution confounds me. 
Therefore we do owe sympathy to those people who through no fault of their own are disadvantaged. As my Leader has said, the exnuptial child is disadvantaged because of circumstances completely beyond his control. I completely support my Leader in our belief that none of us in legislation, speech or in any way should continue under any circumstances to use that hideous word 'illegitimate'. The whole connotation of that word applies to the child as if it is the child's fault that he has been born under these circumstances. Many suggestions have been made of alternative terms that could be used, terms such as ex-nuptual child, natural child and child of a single mother. These are some suggestions of the terms that could be used without the stigma which the word 'illegitimate' connotes. 
This is an appropriate time for the Parliament to debate and to pass this motion because there is a growing incidence of natural children who for a variety of reasons are born out of marriage. I do not think that it is competent or necessary for me to canvass those reasons today. But what this does not necessarily mean is that there is a growth of promiscuity; it does not necessarily mean that there is a growth in the incidence of extra marital intercourse. What it does mean, I suggest, is that there is no longer, thank God, that outdated procedure thought necessary of the shotgun marriage. I can think of no worse social custom than the parents of a child who is conceived as a result of their actions when half drunk in the back of a motor car getting married because they feel that to avoid social stigma they are forced to do so. This sort of situation carries with it the inevitable tragic results. As society becomes more sophisticated the number of children born out of marriage will increase. 
I do not want to canvass in the short time at my disposal this morning whether this one custom in the community is a good or a bad thing sociologically. I have views on this matter myself. I refer to the custom whereby unmarried women who become pregnant and do not wish or are not able to have an abortion or a termination quietly have the child adopted by some agency. That custom too is changing in that more and more single mothers are keeping their children. I do not have the statistics of the percentage of unmarried mothers who kept their children 10 years ago. I should think it would be quite small. But I am astonished today to notice that 40 per cent of single mothers now keep their children. This point would not have had so much importance had the children been formally adopted under the old style. But in the present circumstances the motion now before the premier House of Parliament in Australia becomes more interesting. 
As my Leader said, one could, if one wanted to- and it is not my wish to do this- revel in the pastime of moralising about people who engage in extra marital intercourse. But, as my Leader said, that is not the point. We are not talking about the responsibility that people have. We must be unanimous that the child- whatever the faults, if there are any, of the parents- is completely blameless. Therefore why have this stigma? There is another reason for this motion. One would have thought that in this year of grace and enlightenment sexual ignorance would be disappearing in Australia. But such is not the case. A journal of the Australian Medical Association, which is not a notoriously radical or irresponsible body, recently estimated that each year a mininmum of 250,000 women in Australia become pregnant who do not wish to become pregnant. Thi§ highlights another area which is not directly applicable to the resolution but one which I think is pertinent. If those figures prove anything- and I believe they are minimum figures- they prove beyond any doubt that there is massive sexual ignorance in Australia today. But we still have those bastions who vigorously and maniacally oppose any forms of sex education, oppose the advertising of contraceptives and oppose any resolutions for sexual enlightenment among people. 
The Liberal Party has definite views on this matter. I would like to have some material incorporated in Hansard but I will not even bring myself down to the Minister's level to ask for leave to do so having in mind the way in which he refused leave for my Leader to incorporate the responsible document of the Liberal Party 's policies in the area of sex education, women's community health centres and the like. 
-My time is running out. The Minister says that he has never seen the Liberal Party policy. I find that an extraordinary statement. My Leader mentioned the disadvantages that are suffered by children born out of marriage- the Commonwealth Superannuation Act, the property inheritance where ex-nuptial children have to sue and fight to contest their natural rights; the embarrassment that one has to go through in paternity tests; and the housing difficulties encountered by single mothers with children. That sort of thing also rubs off on the child. All of these disadvantages must, as my Leader suggested, have an enormous psychological impact on that child, whose only sin is that he was born of parents whom he could not choose. This society, this Parliament, this Government, my Party have gone a long way with their recognition of the single mother. Is it not now time that we turned our attention to the child? 
I ask the Treasurer-elect a question. In the absence of any statement to this House by the Prime Minister, in lieu of which there was an extraordinary statement leaked to the Press blaming the Governor-General for the change in the Treasurership, I presume that it is  Dr Cairns  to whom I should address the question. I ask: Will the  Deputy  Prime Minister now give the House an unequivocal assurance- as his predecessor, I understand, did- that when he does become the Treasurer he will not recommend the withdrawal of taxation deductibility of donations to voluntary welfare organisations? 
-The Handicapped Persons Assistance Bill repeals 2 Actsthe Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children's (Assistance) Actand consolidates and extends the Australian Government's program of assistance to voluntary organisations. The Opposition commends the Bill and it commends the amendments that are being made but in doing so we have some criticismsI hope constructive ones- to make on the way. This is another area of social reform to which the Government has made a contribution, although we think that it has not been enough and in some ways perhaps it has been made in the wrong direction. Before I get down to the technical aspects of the Bill and my criticisms of it, I wish to put the matter in context. The tragedy of being handicapped or of having a child who has become handicapped, who is born handicapped or who appears to be handicapped after birth is a tragedy that can never be understood unless it is personally experienced by the person who is handicapped or by the parents of that person. Therefore, although we can have much compassion about this form of tragedy, we can never really share it unless it happens to us or someone close to us. 
I have done some research on a personal basis about the needs in this field. I have spoken to the parents of handicapped children. I have gone to handicapped people and asked about the crying need requiring government help or assistance or society assistance in this tragedy. I have not received a unanimous view that there should be more money for this purpose or more money for that purpose. Of course, people have put forward suggestions but there was a constant request running through my whole survey. It was that when such a tragedy happens people want full information or someone to tell them exactly what facilities are available to someone who is handicapped. That seems to be a simple request but apparently there is a great need for such a document. I request this Government, which has a passion for publishing documents at taxpayers' expense, to prepare a simple document explaining to the parents of handicapped children the kind of facilities and help that is available to them. I am not talking only about the help that would be available from the Australian Government. I am talking of a consolidated document that would show the kind of assistance that is available at the Australian Government level, the State government level, the local government level and now, as the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  foreshadows in his second reading speech, at the fourth tier of government which is rapidly being created in this country by the Australian Assistance Plan. This sort of publication would be extraordinarily helpful. 
I also join the Opposition with the remarks of the Minister in his thanks and praise for the men and women of the voluntary organisations. We would totally join with the Minister in his comments in that regard. It is not unusual for the Minister to spoil a good speech by an indiscreet remark. He did not let us down on the occasion of making his second reading speech on this Bill. He makes what I regard as being a rather contemptible allegation in his speech as recorded on page 3425 of Hansard of 13 November 1974. He said: 
The morality of the social contracts written by past governments for some of these groups - 
That is, voluntary organisations-  has been very much open to question. All too often it has been a case of those with the most financial and political influence, the most access and the most highly developed sense of their own importance to our economic and social system receiving the most attention. On the other hand the modest, the humble and the handicapped have received only token attention. 
There was no need for the Minister to inject that kind of atmosphere into his speech. It is totally untrue. It is totally unworthy. It is a reflection on the previous Minister in charge of social security, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  It is a reflection on the previous Government and it is also a reflection on the organisations that received assistance from the previous Government. We reject that allegation. 
I return to the Bill. Without doubt the legislation will give to voluntary and private organisations increased financial assistance that is very much needed. The evidence of this need for increased assistance is obvious to anybody who has some involvement with voluntary welfare organisations. The Minister's own Department carries out an annual national survey of sheltered workshops. He mentions in his second reading speech that income from sheltered workshops had risen to $ 16m in 1974. What he did not say, however, was that expenditure had exceeded income in 1974 by nearly $2m. In other words, the sheltered workshops ran at a $2m loss last year. Financial assistance will be increased in 2 main ways. Firstly, there will be a wider range of functions or services that will attract a subsidy. Secondly, certain existing subsidies and benefits have been increased. For example, capital and equipment subsidies have been increased by 13 per cent- not doubled as the Minister says. I hope that I make that point very clearly. They have been increased from $2 for $ 1 to $4 for $ 1 . The handicapped children's benefit has been increased by 50c from $3 to $3.50 a day and the salary subsidy in respect of approved staff will be increased in the majority of cases from a 25 per cent level to a 50 per cent level. As well as this increased level of assistance, the Act will give voluntary and private associations much greater flexibility in initiating new programs. 
It could be said that it is highly desirable that the ability of voluntary associations to respond quickly to emerging needs or requests for service for consumers will be enhanced by this Bill. As I see it, this increased flexibility will be mainly fostered by 2 provisions: Firstly, the changes to the rental subsidy which increase the amount of subsidy from 66 per cent to 80 per cent; remove the 3-year limit on the subsidy and sets no maximum limit; and broaden the range of facilities which are eligible to attract rental subsidy. Secondly, the fact that for approved staff of new ventures a salary subsidy of up to 100 per cent for the first 2 years of operation may be approved also increases organisational flexibility. That the Bill does provide additional levels of assistance for a wider range of functions and enhances the ability of voluntary organisations to respond quickly to needs is beyond doubt. However, what is in doubt is that the provisions of the Bill fall far short of providing, in the Minister's own words, 'a balanced and integrated program that is intended to serve an area of social need'. I hope that I am being constructively critical. I hope that Government speakers who follow me will not say that I was trying to make small political points. I know the difficulties of the Minister and the Government in this area. I know that this proposal is an attempt to improve an area and that it does improve the facilities and amenities for handicapped persons. But what I am trying to do- as I think an Opposition should- is to paint the counsel of perfection hoping that we may get some unanimous agreement in philosophy and practice on both sides of the House. Both sides aim for that, whoever is sitting on the Treasury bench. 
There can be no balance and integration when the activities of State governments in this area are specifically excluded from Australian Government financial assistance. I have a telegram from the Leader of the Opposition in the Tasmanian Parliament. I have written to all my State colleagues in the 6 State parliaments. But the speed with which the Government is putting Bills through, with only a week to consider them, does not leave us, as an Opposition, time for consultation with our State colleagues and with the voluntary organisations. I cannot be too critical of the Government for this because we did exactly the same when we were in Government. 
-No, it was not different. I am conceding that it is a wrong practice and does not lead itself to good government. I give a guarantee now to the Minister that when we are back in power, by the middle of next year, I will be more considerate to him than my predecessors were. I hope that makes the Minister happy. 
I am not used to having that happen to me. I was about to read a telegram from the Tasmanian Leader of the Opposition. It states: 
We applaud the provision of funds but urge that it should be made through the States or at least in full consultation with them. 
From my reading of the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech I cannot see that any such guarantees exist. 
Yes, I will. I think it is indisputable that the States have both the historical and practical background in broad social welfare functions which is simply not going to be utilised. There are years of experience, know-how and background available from the States and the voluntary organisations that I believe it would be silly to overlook and to take no notice of. Not only have they got that knowledge but they have also got, I think, a greater knowledge of local needs than does a bureaucrat or a Minister in Canberra. The Minister mentioned the Australian Assistance Plan, the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and the Schools Commission as being related to and involved with this area of social need. Yet he failed to state the incongruity of excluding assistance to the States with this Bill when it is provided by two of the others. 1 should like the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  whose contributions on the subject I always respect, to address himself, when he speaks on this Bill, to how he can justify the money not going through the States or at least the States being consulted in this area of social need. As we know, State education departments receive direct financial assistance for education including special education for handicapped through Schools Commission funds and also receive funds for community health and mental health projects through the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
The AAP, to my knowledge, does not provide financial assistance to State government welfare bodies and this Bill specifically excludes it. It seems to be most incongruous that States should be able to receive financial assistance for education and health programs for handicapped people but not for social welfare programs. That is my reply to the interjection of the honourable member for Perth. In my view the singling out of the States in this legislation is its most serious limitiation in any effort to achieve a balanced and integrated program. I agree with the Minister in his aims. It is quite obvious that voluntary organisations and consumers themselves do not want the vast majority of services to handicapped people to be delivered by a system based on a medical model. I hope that we have unanimity in the House on that. At the last annual general meeting of the Association for the Mentally Retarded it was agreed that the problem of mental retardation- the most common single handicap among handicapped people- was a social problem and not a medical one. 
It is; I concede that point that the Minister just made. I am glad that the Minister and I agree on that. Handicapped people themselves do not want to become part of the 'white coat syndrome'. They want their services delivered by local welfare organisations. While it is vital to increase the effectiveness of voluntary organisations, it is also important to increase the effectiveness and build on the experience and practical wisdom of the State welfare departments. I know the limitations of State welfare departments. I know the limitations of many State governments, State Ministers and State public servants. But they are there and there to stay. Why should we not take notice of what they do by a form of consultation. I doubt that local government bodies in Australia have the historical or the practical background or framework upon which to build hastily complex welfare service structures. I think practice will bear out my view that it is unrealistic to claim any material involvement of the Australian Assistance Plan in this area of social need. Firstly, both the AAP and this proposed Act will be administered by the one department and the one Minister. Secondly, as I understand it, it is departmental policy to insist that programs for handicapped people be funded by the handicapped persons welfare section of the Department of Social Security and not through AAP funds. There is also an inter-departmental committee which aims to ensure that for these kinds of programs no funds through the Hospitals and Health Services Commission are made available. 
Thirdly, in practice there are still a number of very woolly areas where the functions or responsibilities of one government department overlap those of another and this needs to be sorted out. One such area, for example, concerns special schools for handicapped children that were built by voluntary associations with assistance from the Department of Social Security. After many months of discussion there has still been no decision concerning the assumption of responsibility for these educational facilities by State education authorities with the aid of funds from the Schools Commission. One could go on and give a great number of examples of this duplication of services in departments which I believe has been caused by speed. In some cases one can commend the speed of social reform which the Minister and his Government have pursued but certainly we have paid for it in terms of duplication of bundles of muddles, as many examples could indicate. 
Fourthly, the Bill also specifically excludes the joint funding of programs, as I understand, the Bill. That is, Australian Government funds either will not be paid to voluntary organisations together with grants from the States, or the amount of the Australian Government contribution will be balanced out against the amount of State government contribution. To me such exclusion hardly fosters balance, integration or coordination. While I support the importance of not having duplication of funding and consistency of approach I think there is a vast difference between duplication and joint or co-ordinated funding of services and programs. The continued and expanded involvement of the States and other government departments with voluntary associations on joint bases is, I believe, essential. 
Fifthly, this Bill does not recognise that many areas and groups of people within our community do not have the capacity, for one reason or another, to raise the initial funds required to commence services or facilities for handicapped people. The 2 previously mentioned Acts recognised that to establish health and education welfare services is a major undertaking and too great for some communities to initiate at all or to initiate within a reasonable period. These Acts, as we know, recognise this fact by making initiating grants covering all or nearly all of the total establishment and running costs. To overlook such a provision indicates to me that regrettably this Bill is but another piecemeal approach and does not provide a balanced or integrated program. 
In his second reading speech the Minister spoke in most glowing terms about the relationships between the statutory and the private and voluntary sectors in welfare. It is most encouraging to see these kinds of statements being made by Ministers. However, it would be much more encouraging to see such sentiments being put into practice. I suspect and I fear that the provisions of this Bill will not substantially reverse the presence of imbalance in this area where more resources are being channelled into the Government services rather than into the voluntary sector. It is all very well for the Minister to speak for 3 pages of his second reading speech praising the efforts of the voluntary organisations and commending the job they do. The only area in which his sincerity and his belief count is when he administers those views into practice. 
I consider that the claimed integrated and program nature of these provisions can be challenged not only on practical grounds, as I have shown, but also on the ground that the apparent underlying philosophies will not be consistently implemented. It seems to me inherent in the Minister's second reading speech that there are elements which advocate the principles or philosophies of equality of opportunity, normalisation and integration of handicapped people. While we wholeheartedly agree with the importance of these principles, we suspect that this Bill will implement them without any real consistency or without any real definition. This is a question of judgement, I suppose: We would commend the increased subsidies for bricks and mortar, but if one is looking at handicapped persons as a human problem, one would have thought that greater emphasis with the amount of funds that was available for that particular area of need might well have been placed in the subsidy area of salaries. 
That is undoubted, and I commend that area. The only thing I am saying is that I am wondering whether there should not have been more in that area rather than in the capital area. It is a question of judgment upon which I could be challenged- while I am talking on the subsidy of salaries to the extent of 50 per cent or 100 per cent, I hope that the Minister, whoever he is, will be diligent in looking after those faithful people in his Department and that when approval is given to approved subjects as far as salaries are concerned, he will ensure that the long hand of the bureaucracy does not extend too far into the administration of those problems of the voluntary organisations which in the past have acted both wisely and well. I understand, if Government expenditure is to be given in the form of subsidy to voluntary organisations, that of course the Government has a responsibility to the taxpayers to oversee the expenditure of that money. But I would hope that the overseeing or the supervision of expenditure is not carried to extreme limits by the civil servants in the Department so as to represent interference. 
Some people not currently eligible for hostel accommodation under the Handicapped Persons (Assistance) Act and the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act- that is, persons too old to be in handicapped children's homes and too severely handicapped to be employed in sheltered workshops- will be provided for under the extended provisions of the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act 1974. 1 am talking, for example, about the mongoloid son or daughter of an aged person and the provisions of the Handicapped Persons Assistance Bill when it becomes law. It has been indicated that organisations running day activity centres would be eligible for subsidy to provide accommodation for persons attending such centres although this is made by no means clear by the Minister in his second reading speech. I ask the Minister when he replies to this debate whether he would clarify the position concerning that problem I have just raised. 
The Opposition does see some factors about this Bill which we would say are not perfect. It does not present a complete and total picture but we do commend what is in it. We have no amendments to move. The amendment which the Minister has foreshadowed to clear up a technical error in drafting will receive the support of the Opposition as well. 
-We have just heard the most extraordinary speech that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has ever made in this place. He has tried to justify his bloody-mindedness in not accepting a very constructive and helpful amendment that the Opposition both here and in the Senate has tried to make to a great area of social need. There is not one word that he has uttered today that can justify his pig-headedness, his obstinacy and obstruction in refusing this amendment. 
What are we talking about? We are talking about the Aged Persons Hostels Act, legislation which was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party government about 2 years ago. It has a period of 3 years to run. It will not be operative as from late September next year. It has about 10 months to run as of now. I commended the Bill because it sought to allow voluntary organisations, welfare organisations and people interested in philanthropy to transfer their entitlements and to receive money or assistance from the Government if they had an entitlement under the Aged Persons Homes Act. The Government's action in this regard is commendable 
The Bill essentially did two things. It increased the subsidy or the grant to which these welfare organisations were entitled. As I said in my earlier speech, the extension of the grant was illusory because I have the opinion that the cost of building hostels is higher than that which the Minister cares to admit. But the Opposition decided not to press an amendment seeking to raise the minimum amount of subsidy or grant that organisations could receive. But the Opposition was firm on asking that the operation of the Act should be extended for another 2 years. I gave the reasons quite clearly in my second reading speech. Before I again refer to those reasons may I make with as little anger as I can, although 1 am feeling angry at the moment, the following point: A member of the Minister's staff telephoned me this morning. She said that she could not contact me on Friday, for some extraordinary reason because I was in my office in Melbourne all day on Friday, to tell me that the Minister wanted 2 Bills dealt with tomorrow. As Opposition spokesman on social security I have to handle 6 Bills this week which were introduced only last week by the Government. The member of the Minister's staff asked me this morning would I co-operate with the Government and the Minister by expediting the passage of the 2 Bills, the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill and the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill, tomorrow. I said that I would be pleased to do that as the Opposition is always pleased to co-operate with the Government. 
I then said to that member of the Minister's staff that I understood that an amendment to the Aged Persons Hostels Act was coming back to this place today. I asked could I have the courtesy of receiving from the Minister information about the Government's attitude to the amendment. I asked whether the Government would accept or reject the amendment made to the legislation by the Opposition in the Senate. It was not until I walked into this place just now, even though I received that phone call at 10 o'clock this morning, that I learned from the Minister or any member of his staff what the Government's attitude would be. 
-It is not a diablolical plot at all because you do not have the intellectual capacity to concoct one. It is just sheer blank, arrant discourtesy. If the Minister wants co-operation from the Opposition, he had better learn how to behave himself as a Minister, to conduct himself in this House as a Minister, and not to ride roughshod over the Opposition which at all times wants to co-operate with him in the passage of important social legislation. This is not the sort of matter on which the Minister can score cheap political points off the Opposition. He wins no marks for not telling me until I walked into the House what his attitude would be. 
How the devil the Minister possibly expects to win any sympathy with this action I do not know. Every welfare organisation with which I have spoken has supported the stand on this matter by the Opposition in asking for an extension of the Act for another 2 years. The Minister flies in the face of that support Does he fly in the face of it simply because the amendment was suggested by the Opposition? Is it true- I propose to ask him this question tomorrow and give him the opportunity of telling another untruth as he did today at question time- that the advice from his Department was that the Opposition's amendment should be agreed to? I have it on information that that was the advice from his Department. Why is he refusing it? 
Let us look at the situation. This Bill transfers entitlements to welfare organisations running aged persons hostels as distinct from aged persons' homes. The hostel is very valuable for the accommodation of the aged who do not need the full facilities that aged person's homes may have. It is good legislation, and I said that, but for the organisations to get their entitlements under this Bill they must do deals with other organisations. For example, the Brotherhood of St Laurence may have an entitlement to provide a certain number of beds under the legislation relating to aged persons homes. For some reason or other that organisation may not wish to take up that entitlement. It may be going into some other field of endeavour, some other charitable or philanthropic work. It might not have the funds to meet its full entitlement. It might already believe that it has enough entitlement and wish to unload some of that entitlement under this procedure to another organisation. 
Let us assume that the Salvation Army, or one of the many philanthropic activities of the Catholic Church or the Jewish fraternity wanted that entitlement. It would need to go to the Brotherhood of St Laurence, in the case of my example, negotiate for the transfer of the entitlement, go to an architect and engineers to have some plans drawn for its aged persons hostel, have the work costed and tenders called and then somehow raise the appropriate amount of money it needed to do that work. Does the Minister seriously suggest that that all can be done by September of next year? It cannot be done. Nobody in any of the welfare organisations with whom I have spoken says that it can be done. 
With respect to the example that I quoted, in the State of Victoria a public appeal cannot be held unless the organisation wishing to undertake the appeal is slotted into a month by the Hospitals and Charities Commission. Therefore, if an approved organisation in Victoria wanted to raise a public appeal next year for the purposes of this Act, it simply could not do it. It would be breaking the law to conduct a public appeal next year in Victoria to raise funds for the purposes of this legislation. What organisation will commit itself to the expenditure of architects' fees and engineers' fees to prepare plans for an aged persons hostel when it has no guarantee, as the Minister has just said, that the legislation will continue. 
The Minister just said, and put doubt into the minds of all welfare organisations, that perhaps this working committee of inquiry will recommend against the extension of this Act.  Sir, have  you ever heard of anything so ridiculous as to put up that kind of proposition, that is, to recommend against the extension of the Act? The Minister said, with that great logic of which he is always capable, that there are 2 things that the committee of inquiry might recommend. The committee might recommend that it be extended or the committee might recommend that it not be extended. I would have thought that there were only 2 possibilities in this area. We are appalled at this judgment. We realise that the Minister is being obstructionist and is prepared to hold up this legislation. We are not. For that reason we very reluctantly say at this stage that we will not divide on this Bill although we criticise the Minister for his pig-headedness, his obstinacy and the way in which he is being obstructionist in regard to what we believe to be a thoughtful and constructive amendment suggested by the Opposition and carried by the Senate. 
Amendment disagreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Mr Hayden)  agreed to: 
That  Mr Daly, Mr Nicholls  and the mover be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendment of the Senate. 
-I will not detain the House for more than a moment. I know that the Government has business to get through. But what I deplore on a Bill which is so fundamental - 
-We are considering 2 Bills. One deals with the homeless. As one goes through big cities one can see them on park benches pathetically trying to make conversation with each other. One can see them sometimes when one goes to a public library- men, and to some extent women, in their dishevelled gear in a moment of sobriety, knowing that they have seen better days and trying to recapture some of the glory of those former days. To put the debate into context I should like to quote a passage that appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' just today. It reads: 
Wearing battered greatcoats, old sports clothes and blank looks, they shuffled into the big green hall of Surry House yesterday. The word was out and Sydney's faceless had responded. They came trudging up  Foveaux  Street from every corner, down-and-outs seeking a hot meal at the City Mission 's soup kitchen, reopened for lunch after 1 2 months. 
We joined the depressing queue of 30 men; no one spoke as whitehaired  Mr Col  Breem  ladled mince stew into paper plates and handed them out. The silence continued at the trestle tables: washed down with weak tea, the meal was filling. Old Rod beside us, 'on the scrounge' since leaving jail nine days ago, mopped up his stew with bread. He spoke suddenly: 'Now I 've only got me next feed to worry about. ' 
I think that poignant story points up the problem of the homeless in our country. They include not only the men one sees in the disused Army greatcoats lounging around parks and gardens or in the depressed areas of the city, but also the young homosexual who is cast out by his family because they do not understand that some people are sexually deviant without any blame cast upon themselves. The young person cast out with nowhere to go finally goes to some place at one of the lowest levels in our society. They include also the single mother who is cast out of her home by non-understanding parents and is driven into a desperate situation. They include the discarded daughter of a family who will not meet the strict moral requirements of that family. 
These are the sorts of people which the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill is destined to help. It is designed to help the battered wife who quite often puts up with bashings day and night, sometimes several nights a week, who is virtually a prisoner in her home and who suffers unspeakable agonies at the hands of some monster who takes some sadistic pleasure out of woman bashing. Then one day something breaks and she leaves the home because she cannot stand it any more. These are the kinds of people about whom we are talking today. They have no pressure group. They have no lobbyist in Canberra. The tragedy is that politicians disregard them because there are no votes in looking after the homeless. That is why I commend the Government with as much force as I can for this humanitarian gesture. 
If I can put the problem into perspective, I shall quote from an article written by a man who knows a lot about homeless men in the community. If the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  will excuse me I am not being chauvinistic when I say men, because as she would know that for some interesting philosophical reason for which I do not have the answer, of the homeless in our country the men outnumber the women ten to one. The article states: 
The term 'Skid Row' is more applicable to American cities than to Australia, where the facilities used by homeless men are spread over relatively large areas of the cities. However, the picture is essentially similar; a population of homeless men roughly proportional to the size of the city is found in association with night shelters, cheap rooming houses, religious missions, charitable handouts, wine shops, lowgrade hotels, and sources of casual employment. Being in personal contact with each other, homeless men tend to become  acculturated  to the distinctive values, customs and myths of the Skid Row community, which therefore has some characteristics of a sub-culture. 
I commend the word 'acculturated' to the vocabulary of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  It has been used only twice before in the history of this country to my knowledge. The article continues: 
The men who are observed in a given period might be classified arbitrarily into men who appear briefly while in transit from one place to another, men for whom the particular Skid Row is the headquarters from which they move out periodically to work or to wander, - 
Or to go to gaol-  and the immovable hard core of 'derelicts'. 
Homeless men may be defined approximately as persons who exhibit extreme social isolation, and who are chronically dependent on the community for material support, either continuously or recurrently. The great majority of homeless men are chronic excessive drinkers. Their social isolation follows chronic and severe failure to sustain intimate personal relationships, resulting in loss of all primary group ties. Another way of stating much the same fact, used by Pittman and Gordon, is to describe homeless men as 'undersocialised ', implying that their social failure is due to failure ever to learn adequate social skills. Many homeless men do become integrated in to the Skid Row community, but they never identify themselves completely with the group, and their friendships and loyalties are usually weak and unstable. Most homeless men support themselves most of the time, but all are subject to recurrent crises, during which they often become dependent on the community. Material support is obtained as social service benefits and pensions, from welfare agencies and missions, by begging, by 'borrowing' from other men, and by residence in hospitals, prisons, sanatoria and homes for the aged. Material dependency tends to become more complete as the man grows older. 
I believe that is a tragic commentary and description of the homeless about whom we are talking today. It is tragic to observe how little compassion and regard the community has for such people. I still recall my own guilt some years ago when I was walking down Little Collins Street, a very busy thoroughfare in Melbourne, at lunch time and one of these people had collapsed in a crumpled heap on the footpath. I walked past him like probably 1 ,000 people walked past him in the 5 minutes since he had collapsed. I walked past about 30 yards and my conscience impelled me to turn back to see what had happened to him. I saw that a scruffy newspaper vendor, probably regarded by society as one of the lower class in the community, was trying to prop this man up against one of the buildings to give him some comfort. He appealed to everyone passing by to assist him in the task of helping this derelict. He was completely ignored by everyone who passed by. Finally he was impelled to yell out: 'Will not someone help me? You would not leave a bloody dog in this situation'. I think that comment sums up the situation of the way in which society regards these people. 
The unhappy thing about this is that as our cities grow- and the current prognosis for Melbourne is 4 million to 4.5 million people by the year 2000 and 6 million or whatever for Sydneythis problem of the homeless will grow proportionately according to the social reports that we get. I know that the various State governments have institutions in this area. I would not say that they have done what they might have or could have done but they have done something. Essentially this problem has been left to the churches and to the philanthropic and charitable institutions. I do not think that history will ever record the kind of service to their fellow human beings organisations like the Salvation Army and other branches of the Christian church have done for these representatives of the flotsam and jetsam that are in our cities. But one of the unfortunate things about these voluntary organisations is that simply because of the lack of finance they have to treat these people rather en masse rather than individuals. The one thing that these peope want if there is to be any hope at all for them is to be treated as individuals rather than as part of an amorphous mass.These organisations will get some assistance under this Bill. I again commend the Government for it. 
I hope I will now proceed to be constructively critical of the Bill. I am sure that the Minister would agree with most of my criticisms. At least he has made a start. We did not for 23 years. I commend him for it. Again we seem to be falling into the trap of throwing money at any social problem with which we are confronted. I am sure the Minister will agree with me that throwing money at a problem like this will not solve it. It will stop these poor devils from going hungry. It may help to put a roof over their heads. But it will not solve the basic social problem that makes them homeless people. The purpose of the Bill is to assist the eligible organisations engaged in providing temporary accommodation and personal services for homeless men and women and, in one-parent family situations, their children. The Minister has given an undertaking that the legislation will not interfere with the fields of child care under the administration of State governments. The Opposition is pleased to see that. 
The assistance will be available for 3 years. Assistance will be given to voluntary organisations to buy buildings, to rent buildings and to improve buildings up to in some cases 100 per cent of the project. It is estimated that $ 1.45m will be spent in the remainder of 1974-75. Also, the Bill allows for recurrent expenses to be paid, sometimes up to 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker. The Bill defines a social welfare worker as someone qualified or not necessarily qualified. I am delighted to see that the definition of a person who might receive assistance under this Bill is not so narrow as to disqualify people who do not necessarily have a university degree. The cost of the subsidy on salaries is $250,000 for the remainder of this year. 
Also there will be a subsidy for food and accommodation. This is where I might be critical of the Government, although I am conscious that I cannot be too critical because at least this is a start. But I am sure that the Minister will agree with what I am about to say. On meals the proposed rate of subsidy to organisations is 20c per meal. I am not going to say that is miserable. Of course, one cannot provide a meal at such a cost. As I said, this is a start and I commend the Government for it. But I remind the Minister that the proposed subsidy is 5c below the basic meal rate and 10c below the vitamin C supplement rate which applies to the delivered meals on wheels scheme. As delivered meals are frequently delivered in private cars the differential between the 2 meal rates seems to be arbitrary. I put it to the Minister- I think it is a valid pointthat the nutritional needs of the homeless, especially alcoholics, may be even greater than those of pensioners and the need for a vitamin supplement subsidy may be a significant omission from the Bill. I would like the Minister to pay me the courtesy of responding to this point when he replies. 
The 75c daily subsidy for organisations providing accommodation and food represents in effect a 60c subsidy for 3 meals and a 1 5c subsidy for accommodation. Here I think I can be justifiably critical of the 15c subsidy for accommodation because in these days such a subsidy is completely unreal. I wonder whether there is any rationale behind those figures. I have the report of the working party which the Minister established and which recommended these matters some months ago. It seems a small matter to raise now but I hope that the Minister or his Department might take note of some suggestions. I have said before that it is no good just simply having these poor devils line up in stew lines or soup lines receiving a hand out each day and then going away and dossing in a doss house. The working party suggested a great number of practical and constructive things such as an aggressive program of creating employment opportunities which could be undertaken by the Commonwealth Employment Service and which could persuade employers that there are many jobs which homeless men can perform quite adequately. The working party suggested certain activities such as tree planting which at least would give a sense of some sort of achievement to a person in this situation. 
It is not clear from the Minister's second reading speech whether or not the Bill will assist in the provision of a central reception and assessment centre in each capital city as proposed by  Dr T.  Vinson, the Director of the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research, and recommended by the working party.  Dr Vinson  said:  a hard core of 7 per cent of detainees accounts for more than 20 per cent of the total arrests for drunkenness in New South Wales. 
And-  only a small number (8.8 per cent) of those arrested for drunkenness have a history of offences against the person. 
This 'revolving door' approach of repeated arrests for drunkenness cannot offer any hope of dignity or rehabilitation for those involved. I would ask the Minister to respond on that point and to make it clear whether the Government will assist in the provision of a central reception and assessment agency which, I would believe, would be vital to this Bill. The Bill will not apply to statutory authorities although this was recommended by the working party. I point that out not as a matter of criticism of the Government but as something that I believe should be given consideration by the Government in future after the scheme has been monitored. 
In concluding my remarks on the Bill that provides assistance for the homeless I commend to honourable members an article written in the Social Security Quarterly' of winter 1974- a publication of the Department of Social Security. This is an article by Deaconess Noreen Towers who has spent a lifetime with the homeless people of the cities. She makes several points. This may seem a strangely out of place and incongrous matter to raise in a Parliament which, with respect to the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child),  is almost full of hard, cynical men. But I believe it is worth injecting into this debate, if we are to think compassionately about the homeless rather than, as I said before, throw money at their problems, what Deaconess Tower says.  Her  article states: 
It is self evident that if we are dealing with homeless people and wish to grapple seriously with the problems, the first basic requirement will be the provision of a 'home-like' environment. By this, I mean not just the building, but all the elements that are present in a good home: 
Acceptance, which includes love, significance and security. 
Adequate, suitable food. 
Accommodation that provides reasonable comfort and makes possible the maintenance of personal dignity. 
Motivation to improve social skills. 
One point that she does make which is, I believe, a counsel of perfection but one which we cannot see on the horizon is this: 
One of the basic requirements, in my view, is the opportunity for the homeless man to relate to a women in the role of substitute mother. 
That, I believe, would present enormous problems to welfare organisations. But I know that those people are conscious of this need. Perhaps that is the reason why with respect to the homeless in this country men outnumber women by ten to one. Sociological research indicates that almost all of these people were denied the love of a women in their childhood. Summing up, Deaconess Towers says: 
Firstly, it would be preferable if our buildings and programs were much less institutionalised. 
I would agree with that. She continues: 
Secondly, I feel that a program of care would mean that something should be done to make it difficult to obtain methylated spirits for human consumption. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I am very serious about this matter. I realise that it probably lies in the province of the State governments. She goes on to say: 
It is very easily obtainable and unfortunately some people are addicted to it. In an attempt to prevent it from being used for drinking purposes, an unpalatable deterrent could be added, just as is done in Sweden. 
I have been to some of these establishments. The places reek of methylated spirits. Social workers have told me that to give the hideous concoction some extra bite sometimes it is mixed with unbelievable substances like boot polish. One would think that it is not beyond the wit of State health authorities to devise some way in which methylated spirits, a cursed addictive substance, can be made unpalatable for human consumption. 
Deaconess Towers continues: 
Thirdly, I hope that a program of care would mean providing the opportunity for these men to meet and mix with decent women. 
She mentioned this earlier in the article. She concludes: 
Although the house mothers would encounter some problems with some of the men, such as the handling of jealousy, the men do respond to the care and attention given by women. 
Finally, on this Bill, I commend the Government for this humanitarian piece of legislation, with the reservations and criticisms that I have given, and I would hope that, in his response, the Minister might clear up the matters that I have raised. 
The second Bill that we are debating cognately is the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill. That Bill undertakes to introduce a system of deficit financing for nursing homes. These are nursing homes run by voluntary organisations. The system of deficit financing is to meet the losses incurred. The scheme does not include privately run nursing homes or nursing homes run by the States. The assistance contained in this Bill will go also to local government authorities, which conduct nursing homes, as well as to charitable, religious and philanthropic institutions. The Bill gives assistance not only for in-patients but also for visiting patients. It includes physiotherapy, occupational therapy and other forms of therapy. It includes the costs of transportation and others. 
The Opposition supports this Bill, but again I wish to point out some dangers contained in it, as I see them. No voluntary organisation is compelled to enter into this arrangement with the Government for deficit financing. The Act does not force them to do so. It gives them an option. They can continue as they are today virtually on a hand to mouth basis with rising costs and so on, or they can say: 'Look, let us take away the worry of financial difficulties and enter into an agreement with the Government'. The agreement is one of the key provisions of this legislation. 
There are 3 features in the terms of the agreement. The first is that the proprietor of a nursing home will have to submit a budget on income and expenditure. That budget will be examined by the Department of Social Security for reasonableness, having regard to the costs of operating other nursing homes participating in the deficit financing arrangement and the past costs of the nursing home concerned. That is a perfectly reasonable provision to put in an agreement. If taxpayers' money is to be spent in millions in subsidising nursing homes, notwithstanding the fact that those nursing homes are run by religious or philanthropic organisations, the Government of the day has a duty to protect the expenditure of taxpayers' money on them. But I do point out the danger that, as soon as a nursing home applies to the Minister for Social Security for deficit financing, it naturally and automatically places itself in the hands of the Government as far as even administration, budgeting and the operation of the home are concerned. It depends on the way in which the Minister allows his Department to administer this Act whether he will permit his Department to intrude into the private running affairs of the nursing homes. That would be up to the Minister. I would hope that the amount of intervention by bureaucrats in this area of social need would be limited to the absolute essential and not go beyond that. But that would be up to the Minister. 
Secondly, under the arrangements, the Australian Government will make advances to a nursing home to meet a deficit as it is being occurred. This will relieve the cash flow problems confronting a number of these nursing homes at present. Thirdly, when the actual deficit has been determined at the end of the year, a final settlement will be made by the Government. The deficit financing will extend further the control that the Government has over voluntary non-profit nursing homes. Despite the fact that the agreement between the home and the Government will be voluntary, it will probably prove easier for a home to join the scheme than it will for a home to leave the scheme after it has been participating in it for a few years. 
Experience under this program may necessitate a greater degree of control than is currently anticipated. In some cases, voluntary homes may let private sources of income lapse while accepting deficit financing. That would be a bad thing, I believe. If Freemasons' homes, Presbyterian homes, Methodist homes and Jewish homes allow the private sources of financing to lapse and say: 'We will rely completely on Government handouts or on Government deficit financing', I think that would be a retrograde step. If experience of deficit financing proves unsatisfactory the homes might find it extremely difficult to revive private sources of income. The Bill also gives enormous power to the permanent head of the Department of Social Security or his delegate. As I understand it, it gives the permanent head power to say to a voluntary organisation: 'You will build your home here', even though a State Government might believe that that is the worst possible place to build a home. It gives the permanent head power to determine the size of a nursing home. It also gives the permanent head or his delegate power to determine standards both for nursing homes and for outside services being provided for them. 
I point out another feature of the Bill which leaves a single pensioner $4 for his tobacco, toiletries and so on. I point out to the Minister that this amount is lower in proportion than the amount proposed by the Liberal-Country Party Government when it amended nursing home benefits in 1972. In this area I do not think the Minister can be too proud of that figure of $4 because it is in fact lower than the one which we proposed. Another factor about the $4 left to the pensioner to spend- I would like the Minister to correct me if I am wrong- is that on my reading of the Bill the amount that the pensioner pays, $32 a week or whatever it is, is fixed by the Act. That will get out of balance very quickly if inflation continues at this rate and if pensions continue at this rate. I think it would be more sensible and easier for the Minister to administer if he said that the pensioner paid a percentage of his pension to the home, leaving a certain percentage over. That would obviate the necessity of having to come back to Parliament every time the Government wanted to alter that provision. 
There is nothing in the Bill to assist the privately run, privately owned nursing home. We believe that such homes have performed an extremely valuable function in this country in caring for the aged. Many times they have done this at a lesser cost than the voluntary charitable organisations and certainly than the State run institutions. There is nothing in this Bill against the private nursing homes but one would hope that the Minister does not persevere with his obsession to destroy them. That would result in a great social upheaval for people who no longer can care for themselves. With those comments the Opposition commends the Government sincerely on the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill. It supports with reservations the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill. 
-The House is debating a surprising Bill introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  last Wednesday. We are asked to debate this Bill tonight, the following Tuesday. No notice has been given of the intention of or the reason for this Bill to be debated. There is no rationale for it. Out of the blue, we get something so fundamental which we believe is probably the greatest and most naked assault on the private health insurance funds that has ever been introduced into this House. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
Proposals directed to improvements in the legislation authorising the present health insurance arrangements were placed before the Government recently. 
We have to look at this aspect in the context of the state of play at the moment. The Government has had certain Bills passed through a joint sitting of both Houses of the Parliament. This gives it authority to introduce the so-called notorious Hayden health scheme. The Minister's departmental officers and ministerial advisers have been traipsing around the country trying to get support from the various parties interested in his health legislation to co-operate. I refer to the doctors, the private hospitals, the private nursing homes, and the private health funds. Everywhere he or his representatives have gone, they have met with rebuff. Nobody will have a bar of his health scheme. 
But there is a further ingredient which happened just a week ago in the New South Wales Supreme Court. The power of the Minister to destroy private health funds was questioned, in fact torpedoed, by a judgment of that Court. Now we have the prospect of the Minister and the Government committed beyond any shadow of doubt to introducing its health scheme which will change the whole complexion of health care in this country by 1 July of next year; or now they are saying perhaps 1 October of next year. Nobody will co-operate with them. It is now quite clear that the Government cannot introduce its health scheme by October of next year without either the co-operation or the subservience of the people or the organisations that I have mentioned, that is, the doctors, the health funds, the private hospitals, the private nursing homes, the States, and so on. 
I beg the honourable member's pardon? 
I acknowledge the interjection of the honourable member for Robertson who said that he thinks they will co-operate. If this Bill which is before the House was passed, they would have no option but to co-operate. This is why the Opposition is going to oppose it with all its force both here and in another place. 
One of the main obstacles to the Minister in implementing his health scheme are the private health funds. Can I take a moment to discuss these institutions? The Minister and Government speakers have painted them as rapacious health funds, as private enterprise at its worst, profiteering out of the public. But what are they? They are virtually co-operative societies. No dividends are declared by these health funds. The sort of people and organisations against whom this Bill is directed are the friendly societies which for years have traditionally been a body of people interested in grouping together to protect their own health and to protect themselves against, among other things, the cost of medicine. 
It was only about 4 hours ago that I stood at this place and commended the same Minister for his compassion and understanding in introducing legislation concerned with homeless people. I cannot understand his fanatical obsession with the health insurance funds of this country. They are not multi-national companies. They are not groups of people headquartered in London or New York or anywhere else who have come here to take us over. These are Australian born people who are serving in an honourary capacity to assist Australians to insure themselves against injury or sickness. 
I acknowledge the interjection of the honourable member for Robertson. I do not understand its import. If the honourable member says that they tend to be empire builders, I reply: Of course they do. Any organisation unhappily inevitably falls into empire building in terms of Parkinson's law. But what the honourable member for Robertson and the Minister want is the greatest empire of all time in the Australian Health Insurance Commission, a bureaucratic monster that will take over the whole of health insurance in this country, run by the Government or run by the big brother. If Government members are going to talk about empire building, I say that the mind boggles at the kind of empire building of Much that sort of organisation is capable. 
The health funds obviously are the key to the implementation of the Government's health insurance program we on this side of the House have s u we are intractably opposed. The Minister knows that he cannot get his health scheme without the co-operation of these organisations that I have mentioned, primarily the health funds. He has asked them to be agents temporarily, for 3 years, until the Australian Health Insurance Commission can take over. The health funds have refused. The Minister has given an extension of time to the health fundsuntil 3 1 December of this year- to make their decision. They have remained intractable in their opposition because the kind of offer that the Minister has made to the private health insurance funds of this nation has been such that, if they accepted his agency proposition, they would be signing their own death warrants and signing the death warrants of the millions of contributors that there are around Australia. 
I respect the honourable member for Kingston. If he contemplates that interjection, he will see in a flash how absurd it is in its context. What company or organisation takes out a referendum on - 
-The House is debating 3 health levy Bills the purpose of which essentially is to provide the funds for the notorious Hayden health scheme. At the outset I make it very clear that the Opposition will be as resolute in its opposition to these 3 Bills as it has been twice before. Although I honour the friendship of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  who assists the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  I should have thought that as these Bills could be the last which the Treasurer as such would have handled I might have had the additional honour of having him confront me across the table. These Bills have already been debated in this House this year. The Opposition voted against them, but they were passed by the Government numbers in this chamber. The Bills went to the Senate where they were rejected. They are now back in this chamber, and the Opposition will be as resolute in opposing them as it was before. 
That is hardly appropriate language for a lay Methodist preacher to use. In opposing these Bills we are conscious of the constitutional possibilities our opposition raises. We realise that we are putting into the Government 's hands a weapon for another double dissolution. If it chooses to take this issue to the people and involves this House or both Houses the Opposition will accommodate it in a flash- if the Government dares. These Bills will have the effect of adding to people's income tax to the extent of 1.35 per cent of taxable income over and above what they are paying now so that the Hayden health scheme can be part funded. This 1.35 per cent will not, of course, fund the Hayden health scheme completely as the major proportion of the cost will be taken out of Consolidated Revenue. It is pathetic that the Government should pursue with obsessive zeal the introduction of such a scheme at a time of raging inflation. I pick up a newspaper, the 'Australian Financial Review', which has not been notorious for supporting the Opposition in recent times. It carries the headline 'A sick economy'. 
The honourable member for Blaxland says it is an intelligent newspaper. I acknowledge his interjection so that it will appear in Hansard, I shall now quote what the 'Australian Financial Review' says about the Labor Party: 
The Whitlam Government, beleaguered by rising unemployment and inflation, was yesterday presented with a statistical picture which shows that Australia is headed For a set of more intractable economic problems. 
It is now clear that Australia is in an economic slump which will at least match the decline of 1 960-6 1 . 
Do the honourable members for Blaxland and Wilmot agree that this is an intelligent commentary? 
The honourable member for Blaxland has never been in position in his life. I quote further from the 'Australian Financial Review'. It states: 
What is a nice little country like Australia doing in a mess like this? ... A great deal of the Whitlam Government's Cabinet is preoccupied with the perks of office, the seductive, corruptive world of patronage and little else. 
This is not a two-bit newspaper; it is one of the highly  respected  financial newspapers of this country. In its leader article today it states: 
For reasons unconnected with the vagaries of nature the economic growth of Australia has gone into reverse. 
Any suggestion that this can be explained in terms of international trends is intelligence-insulating deception. 
It is quite simply a matter of extremely poor domestic economic management. 
In conclusion the lead article states: 
In the process, Labor has taken what must be one of the best positioned economies in the entire world and turned it upside down. 
In the light of that we now have this added insanity of adding to the fires of inflation by representing these health levy Bills. 
If what I have said is not sufficient, I take some comments made recently by one of the great admirers of the Government, Professor Downing. I can testify to his competence because he turned out a large number of students from the University of Melbourne with commerce degrees including, I understand, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and myself. In talking of the economy a day or two ago Professor Downing said: 
Each of them - 
He was talking about the compensation scheme, the superannuation scheme and the health scheme- is admirable in itself. Add them together, however, and the total cost on prospect is sobering . . . The total cost to public revenue of these 3 major proposals ... is just on $4,900m, about 10 per cent of gross domestic product. 
This means that 10 per cent of everything we produce is being diverted by the Labor Government, a socialist government, into these 3 areas. Professor Downing who, I remind honourable members, is a distinguished gentleman and the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, continued: 
The additional burden will fall mainly on lower-income people not now contributing to private schemes. 
Is it the Labor Government that is doing thisthe so-called champion of the working class? Is the Labor Government impacting this additional cost on the people who cannot afford to pay it at a time of raging inflation which is crippling the economy and crippling the poor? Professor Downing continued: 
This increased revenue will all have to be raised through direct or indirect taxes and will involve an increase of tux revenues from 22.3 per cent of gross domestic product to 28 per cent- an increase of 25.5 per cent. 
That means to finance these 3 schemes taxes, both direct and indirect, will have to increase by 25 per cent. Professor Downing concludes with this devastating comment: 
It is, however, now painfully clear that the people of this country will not take a sharp sudden increase in taxes without pressing for equally sharp sudden increases in their money incomes in an effort to ease the incidence of these taxes. Since the schemes are all costed in terms of percentages of gross domestic product, any such inflation of money incomes will lead directly to increased expenditures on these schemes and will thus set off a vicious inflationary spiral. 
In the light of that advice, and when every economist in the country and responsible financial newspapers are saying 'For God's sake halt this crazy inflationary spiral', it passes my comprehension that the Labor Party would introduce something that represents a further stimulus to increase incomes and increase prices. Even if this were a good scheme, which we do not believe it is, now would be a bad time to bring it in. 
What does it mean- these goodies included in the health scheme which we are now debating, the compensation scheme and the superannuation scheme? It means, in effect, that this Government is saying to every wage earner in Australia: 'Look, we cannot trust you with how you spend your money. We are going to spend it for you.' These 3 schemes alone will mean that after people have paid their taxes the Government will go to them and say: 'We are going to take 10 per cent of your take-home pay over and above what we are taking now in taxation to finance these schemes because we believe they are good for you. It does not matter whether you want to put that discretionary dollar of yours into further education for your children, to add a room on to your house or use it for some other function '. The Government says: ' We know best; big brother knows best. We are going to rip it off you. We are going to take a further 10 per cent of what you take home because we know better than you'. Who does the Government think pays for all these goodies? Does the Government think it can continue to print money in printing presses? I would like to inform the Government that it is the ordinary man- the wage earnerwho pays. The worker pays for this. When will this Labor Government realise that it cannot dip its hands into a barrel and produce money to pay for all these goodies? When will it discover that there is no magical golden goose that lays the golden eggs for it to pick up so that it can shower goodies over people? Let it realise that there is no bottomless pit into which it can dip its hands and draw out billions of dollars without any restraint. 
Apart from the effects that such action will have on the economy, it will have a much more serious impact on something which is even more important than the nation's economy. I refer to the health of individual Australians. I believe that this legislation will have a bad effect on health care and the health of Australians and their families. It is really sad to look back over the last few years and to see that every field of endeavour in which the Australian Labor Party has intruded since it came to office 2 years ago it has ruined. It has not touched anything that it has not ruined. What has the Labor Government done to the housing situation? Is it possible now for a young couple to buy a house without mortgaging themselves in perpetuity and paying the highest rate of interest we have ever known in this country? 
Can the vocal honourable member for Blaxland tell me one Minister who has done a good job? Let him tell me one Minister in relation to whom he can get on a public platform and say: 'There is a good Minister. I am proud of him. I am proud of the job he has done'. Honourable members opposite could not name one such Minister. You have ruined the defence forces of this country. You have ruined any opportunity for oil exploration. You have stopped oil exploration in this country when there has been an international oil crisis. You have set interest rates in the country at the highest level they have been in the nation's history. You have massive, crippling unemployment. You have ruined secondary industry - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the honourable member to address the Chair and I ask other honourable members to cease interjecting. 
This Labor Government has ruined everything it has touched. It now has secondary industry in utter chaos and confusion. It does not know where to go. The average man is paying more tax than he has ever paid before. The Government has made a farce of and demeaned this insititution of Parliament. Is there a member opposite who would stand up and be proud of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the way he has behaved in the last 10 days? Is there a Labor Party member who would be proud to stand up beside his Minister? Everywhere one turns, one sees chaos. What sort of comfort will there be now for the thousands who are thrown out of work by the larrikinism of the Minister for Transport. We saw what happened to thousands of employees of Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines. What about the position of thousands of school leavers? Would they find any comfort in this Government? I repeat that the Government has not touched anything without ruining it. Now, it is going to ruin the nation's health care system which will mean that it will interfere with the health of Australians. 
-I would have thought that the honourable member for Corio was more worthy than to make that contemptible remark which I will regard with the utter contempt that it deserves. If the honourable member wants to hold on to his seat of Corio, which has now become more tenuous than ever because of the Government's policies, he should make remarks more worthy of a member of Parliament than the one he has just made. 
I thank the Minister and I thank the House. Notwithstanding the vilification of the present health scheme, the Opposition says that this is still a good health scheme that we have operating at the moment. We would concede the need for further development in the light of experience and changing conditions. What disturbs us is the way in which the Minister in particular has vilified at every opportunity every person connected with the present health scheme. He has abused doctors, he has vilified the health funds, calling them rapacious. He has brought the nursing homes of this country to the brink of destruction on many occasions. He has signed the death warrant of private hospitals. His Government is responsible for the worst inflation we have had in this country for many years, if not ever, and because doctors apply, like everybody else, for an increase in their salaries he vilifies them as being grabbing doctors. As far as I know, the only people in the community who have not had a rise in the last 3 years are the poor, miserable unfortunate creatures who happen to be members of Parliament. Everybody else, of course, has had massive increases in salary. Why should the doctors not have increases also? 
The Liberal Party's policy is one of universal health care. We care for the 8 per cent of people who are not covered for health insurance and we have a policy to cover them. We care for the people on low incomes who cannot afford the now expensive private health insurance and we have a sliding scale by which they can contribute for their private health insurance according to the level of their incomes. We have checked our scheme with former experts in the Taxation Office, with constitutional lawyers, with State governments, with the professions and with the private hospitals, and although most of these people have slight criticisms and suggestions about our health scheme they are in fundamental agreement with it. The opposite can be said of the Labor Party's health scheme. There is not one reputable organisation concerned with health care in Australia which supports the Labor health scheme. Fifty-six per cent of the people surveyed in a gallup poll would not have a bar of it, and yet today we still have this Government obsession about forcing the legislation through this House. Our health scheme is being updated all the time, and today I want to make a new announcement of policy which will be in the Press boxes in a moment or two. It reads: 
The Liberal and Country Parties recognise that the States face grave financial difficulties in developing their hospital and health services, because of the unwillingness of the Labor Government to increase Commonwealth support in line with inflation. 
A Liberal and Country Party Government will provide an immediate and large injection of funds into State Health systems. 
The Commomwealth Government today contributes only $5.00 per day towards the bed costs of Pensioner Medical Service patients, provided with free treatment in a public ward. 
-The Minister interjects. If he hears me out he will realise that this money would have been given to the States by his Government with tags, the kind of tags which the Labor Party always uses. It says to the States: 'We will give you this money but in return you have got to hand over to us your soul. You have to hand over to us the control of State hospitals'. Our scheme is vastly different from the Minister's. We will allow the States to maintain autonomy with their health services and with their hospitals. The new policy statement continues: 
Originally the Commonwealth contribution represented a substantial proportion of the bed-costs of pensioner patients. This is no longer the case- hospital bed costs ranging to above $50.00 per day - 
And the Commonwealth only provides $5 a day. 
The States now bear the brunt of the burden of providing free hospital treatment for pensioners. This has placed an intolerable strain on scarce State resources, particularly in times of higher inflation. 
The Liberal and Country Parties recognise the pressing need for more State resources to be made available for the development of hospital and health services. 
The Commonwealth Government has the Constitutional power to provide medical and hospital services for pensioners, and with it the responsibility to make a significant contribution towards the hospital care of pensioners. This responsibility should be exercised without seeking to take over financial control and management of State hospitals. 
As the Labor Party would want to do. 
A Liberal and Country Party Government will increase the proportion of the Commonwealth contribution towards the daily bed costs of pensioners from 10 per cent to 50 per cent. On present costs this would result in an increase of the Commonwealth contribution from $5 per day to at least $22.50 per day. 
An LCP Government will also enter into urgent negotiations with the States and the Voluntary Health Insurance Funds on a number of other matters, including- improving the presently inadequate SHBP for low income peoplemedical benefits cover for outpatients. 
We would also improve ambulance services, cover for psychiatric patients and other matters. These are the sorts of matters the States have been asking for for 2 years at conferences and the Government has refused them. On return to power we will take those actions that I have just described. 
In conclusion, we think that this Bill is badly timed. It is a bad Bill and we will oppose it here. We will divide on it here. We will oppose it in the 
Senate and hopefully reject it again in that place which I would think would be the just deserts of a very bad Bill. 
-I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is it true that a very senior officer of his Department was invited to deliver a paper to the Fifth International Symposium on Energy Resources and Environment held in Kuala Lumpur last week? Did that officer refuse to deliver a paper? If so, why? Further, why was no officer of his Department present at that conference and symposium at which the world's leading experts on energy resources and the environment gave the benefit of their knowledge? Does this indicate that the Minister and his Department believe that their fund of knowledge in this area is complete? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The Minister made special reference to me by name and stated unequivocally before the House that my position on Medibank was different from that of my 
Leader. That is the point upon which I have been personally misrepresented, deliberately and mischievously, by the Minister. About 8 weeks ago I made an announcement on behalf of the joint Opposition after having had it discussed in the Party room and having the unanimous support of everyone behind me that we would dismande Medibank and the Health Insurance Commission. I issued a statement on that. Immediately after that I was asked to appear on radio and television. I was then asked the question: 'Do you mean you would dismantle Medibank at any time?' I said that it would be an absurd proposition to answer that question unequivocally because if we were unfortunate enough not to resume power after, say, 3 years, the Medibank scheme would be woven fabric of Australian society as it was in the United Kingdom. At that time, 6 weeks ago, I made that statement. It is on the record. It is in public speeches and it is identical with the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition. Yet the Minister knowing this will come in here and try to make this sort of mischief. It is contemptible. 
I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  We will not call for a division on the third reading of the Bill, but I want it on the record that this is not because we do not vigorously oppose the Bill; it is simply because I believe that we made the point once in dividing on the second reading and we do not want to waste the time of honourable members by calling for division after division. I just wanted to put that point on the record. Again I thank the Minister for allowing me to do so. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am happy to co-operate with the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  as in this way the time of the House is saved. These 2 Bills seek to amend the same Act. As it happens, the Opposition will be supporting one Bdi, the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1975, and vigorously and resolutely opposing the other, the National Health BUI (No. 3) 1975. 
The National Health BUI (No. 2) 1975 is a simple but good amendment to the National Health Act. It proposes to allow Commonwealth and fund benefits to be paid to women who are pregnant when they join a fund and who are not now able to receive benefits for care and service associated with the pregnancy and birth. Also, it covers and provides benefits to uninsured people who become eligible for unemployment and sickness benefits and who are currently required to serve a 2 week waiting period before becoming eligible for benefits under the subsidised health benefits plan. 
This BUI proposes that the special account system be extended to include the above groups of people. Although the numbers of people involved are small, this action will remove substantial costs and worries from individuals. This is especially so in the case of unemployment and sickness benefit recipients whose unemployment may be the result of sickness or accident and are thus at a severe disadvantage. The special account system was introduced in 1969 by a Liberal-Country Party Government and was meant to assist the chronically Ul or long term patients whose insurance entitlement expired under a maximum benefits clause. The cost incurred by funds in providing this additional cover was made good by the Government. 
It is interesting to notice that the Minister is referring to the special accounts system this time in a commendatory way whereas, in the past few months, he has been vilifying the health funds for abusing the special account system and also knocking the concept ofthe special account anyway. I will not say any more on the National 
Health Bill (No. 2) 1975. It is a relatively simple Bill. It is a good one, and the Opposition supports it. 
The National Health Bill (No. 3), the second Bill, is a different proposition. This is the second occasion on which this House has considered the clauses of this Bill, which are identical to those contained in the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1974. That Bill had some goodies latched on to it. For example, it included some subsidies for nursing homes, changes in the payments concerning handicapped children, the wider provision of surgical aids and medical aids and appliances and the extension of full approval rights for certain friendly society dispensaries. The Opposition supported the amendments which I have just recounted but opposed the other components of the 1974 Bill which now form this Bill. The Government accepted the amendments that were passed in the Senate. Those amendments took the form of excising from the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1974 the provisions relating to the health funds and leaving in the Bill the matters to which I have just referred. That Bill was then brought back to this House as amended, was passed and is now, I presume, proclaimed or about to be proclaimed. 
So the Bill we now have before us is nothing but a naked assault by the Minister for Social Security on the administration and autonomy of the private health funds of Australia. It is for that reason that we vigorously oppose it and will continue to oppose it in another place. I am very disappointed that this Bill and the other Bill are being debated on a day when the House of Representatives is not on the air. 
I am a very charitable man, as my friend the honourable member for Griffith would readily concede. But I am not charitable enough to suggest that it was fortuitous that the Health Bills were brought forward on a Wednesday. I think it is contemptible that the Government will be spending or squandering $1.5m of taxpayers' funds on publicising Labor Party propaganda in the form of its discredited health scheme and yet not only refuses to give the Opposition one cent to publicise its own health plans but also, when an opportunity comes along when the debate in this chamber can be broadcast, manipulates the scheduling of the Bills to such an extent that every health Bill seems to be debated while the House of Representatives is off the air. I do not know how many people listen to debates that are broadcast. Perhaps 20 000 or 40 000 people listen at any one time. But at least that is some audience to whom the Opposition can put over its point of view. The Government is putting over its point of view by the squandering of $ 1 . 5m on television to literally millions of Australians, with what  I  believe to be false and misleading advertising which virtually is Labor Party propaganga. 
If the Minister wants to interject, let me illustrate the point I am making. One of the advertisements states: 
Medibank will provide free medical insurance cover for every man, woman and child in Australia. 
I challenge the Minister, with your indulgence  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on 2 points: Does the adver- tisementpaidforbytaxpayers'moneysaythat; and is it not untrue? In his customary fashion the Minister finds himself in a corner from which he cannot retreat. 
What I have said is true because I have quoted from the advertisement. It is a blatant untruth to say that Medibank is free. The argument that the honourable member for Wilmot uses, namely, that something that will cost the Australian taxpayer $ 1,600m is free, is a very curious one as far as I am concerned. 
I readily concede that if  I  live to be one thousand, I will never comprehend the reasoning of the honourable member for Wilmot. If he is suggesting that a health scheme which on any reasonable estimate - 
-But it does not say that. 
Because it is misleading, and that is the very point I am making. If the advertisement said that the Medibank scheme would provide medical insurance free from contribution, that would be a true statement. But it does not say that. I imagine that any student of the English language who reads or hears on television that 'Medibank will provide free medical insurance cover for every man, woman and child in Australia' is free to accept that this is not going to cost him anything. Any reasonable estimate indicates that the cost of the scheme will be $ 1,600m a year. Can the Minister tell me how it is free? Where is the money to come from? Has he some magical tree in Queensland from which he plucks $ 1,600m a year to put into the cost of Medibank? 
Untruths often are spoken in politics, and they are regrettable. But it is contemptible when untruths are spoken over radio and television at the taxpayers' expense, and that is precisely what is happening with Medibank. The advertisement further states: 
Medibank will cover all those Australians-more than one million of them- who are not insured against the high cost of sickness or injury at present. Not insured because they cannot insure themselves. So they simply cannot afford to become ill. 
This also is untrue for the very reasons that the Minister knows. I have not the time to talk at the length at which I would like to talk about the advertisements that are being placed over radio and television. But I am curious as to why the Government is placing these advertisements. The Minister for Social Security has stated in this House that his health scheme has been fully explained and debated. The 'Australian' of 10 December 1974 said that this was the Minister's justification for gagging the debate on the health scheme in this House. I have been at the despatch box in front of me many times, debating the health scheme in this place. I think I have debated the health scheme or its allied legislation here about 7 times. I cannot remember an occasion on which the debate has not been gagged. I cannot remember an occasion on which there were not many members on this side of the House who wished to speak but who were gagged. But that did not stop the Minister from saying that the health scheme has been fully explained and debated. 
The Minister cannot have it both ways. If he said on 10 December 1974 that the health scheme has been fully explained and debated, what is his justification for spending $ 1 .5m in advertising Medibank on radio and television? That in itself is a complete inconsistency. The advertising campaign is not to explain Medibank; it is a blatant advertising gimmick of the Labor Party which is using taxpayers' money to promote its own discredited scheme. If the Minister believes that the scheme has been fully explained, debated and understood, can he explain to me why 5 6 per cent of people who took pan in a gallup poll taken in December 1974 preferred a voluntary scheme to the Government's plan? We heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today repeat the sickening statement that Medibank has been approved by the Australian people on 3 occasions. He said the Minister has said and the people on the other side of the House have said ad nauseam that they have a mandate for Medibank and that it has been approved 3 times. That is a quaint kind of approval to me in which 56 per cent of the people oppose it. That is the kind of approval which I find difficult to understand, even using the logic of the Minister. 
Turning to the provisions of this Bill, what do they do? This Bill gives the Minister absolute power over every health fund in Australia. Let us look at the health funds. We have heard the Minister speak on them. One thing which I will concede is that he is very good at abusive language. He is the master of hurtful invective, of the adjective that has some sting in it. One term that he has been using is 'the rapacious health funds' or the greedy health funds', trying to conjure up the view that the health funds are same multinational company out here to rip profits off the Australian people and to plough them back overseas. The private health funds are co-operative societies. They are organised and consist of ordinary people- millions of them- who decide to insure themselves. They do not declare dividends to be paid to anybody. There is no profit made to be sent out of the country. They are co-operative societies- non-profit making. 
Another point is that the powers that the Minister has in relation to the funds were increased in 1974 by amendment to the National Health Act. We did not oppose that amendment. In fact we supported it and standing at this table I commended the Minister for bringing in that amendment because I believed that there was not enough discipline by the federal Government, which did provide most of the income of the funds, over the funds and that the only weapon- if that is the right word; I do not think it is- to use over the funds was deregistration. The Minister made the point that that was too severe, that it was a steamhammer to hit a tack. I agreed with him, so we on this side of the House and also in the senate agreed to the amendment and we believe that that additional power gave him sufficient powers. 
What does this Bill do in relation to the funds? This Bill allows the Minister to have the power to transfer the reserves between medical and hospital funds and vice versa. Let us examine that proposition. There are the private health funds such as the Hospitals Benefits Association of Victoria, in Sydney the Medical Benefit Fund of Australia Ltd, the Hospitals Contributions Fund of Australia or whatever, the health fund which is run by a trade union- there are a great number of those- and there are also the friendly societies and the lodge funds. There are 2 separate compartments in health funds. There are the people who want to insure themselves and their families against hospital charges. There are those of us who want to insure against doctors' fees. It is not necessarily so that the people who insure themselves in both funds are identical. It could be that an almost entirely different group of people are insuring themselves in the medical fund as compared with those insuring themselves in the hospital fund. Let us assume that the medical fund has large reserves and the hospital fund has none. Is it equitable, is it fair that the excess contributions or the reserves of the medical fund should simply be taken out of that fund and be put into the hospital fund? That could well be robbing the assets of a great number of people which have been built up in good faith over the years and giving them to someone else. I just cannot see the justice in that. I just cannot see the equity in it. In fact, if it were done without the sanction of law it would be simply classified as theft, but the Minister wants to give this theft the sanction of the law by an Act of this Parliament. The controls in this Bill would give the responsible Minister very great powers over the funds. Reading from that, it would give an irresponsible Minister enormous powers over the funds. What powers are provided in this Bill? 
This is an extraordinary Bill. I will not go into the technicalities because time will not allow me but I will summarise the Bill as I see it. If the Minister wants- to use the vernacular- to knock off a health fund or to take it over he then says: This Bill gives me the power to indulge in an exercise of talking to myself. As far as the Minister is concerned, I would strongly discourage that practice because I would strongly encourage him when he does get into conversation to discuss something with someone intelligent. This Bill gives him the opportunity of discussing something with himself. He has to ask himself the question: 'Have I good reason to investigate that health fund?' He asks himself:  'Mr Hayden,  do you think that that health fund needs investigation?' The other  Mr Hayden  says: 'Yes, I think it needs investigation'. So once he has come to that decision after that monologue, after dichotomising himself, he then has power to send in an inspector of his own choosing. That inspector can be anybody he chooses. The Bill, as I recall it, does not say the person has to be a public servant, a judge or anybody else. In other words, he can be- to use a horrid word- the Minister's stooge. That inspector then reports to the Minister on the condition of that health fund. If the inspector, the Minister's stooge, believes that that health fund needs somebody sent into it the Minister then can send in a judicial manager who can have all the powers that the administration and boards of directors of the funds now have. In other words, he can dissipate reserves or transfer reserves anywhere he likes. He can increase or decrease contribution rates. In other words, the funds and all their assets then become the child, the property of a Minister of the Crown. The Minister must be out of his mind if he believes for one moment that any responsible Opposition would accept such a ridiculous set of circumstances to give that kind of power to a Minister. 
We will reject this Bill with the vigour with which we rejected the last one. This is part of the whole complex of the Labor Party's national health scheme. I would just like to make 2 more comments about this matter which we in Opposition find it difficult to make because of the limitations of time put on us at question time and at any other time. I would like the Minister to tell me when he replies, although the technique usually adopted is that debates on health are gagged and the Minister uses that as an excuse for not replying to the questions raised and the points made by the Opposition, why we have not had any statements from him in the 2 years in which he has been in charge of this Bill so that the Parliament could debate the matters of policy. Why is it that he inevitably relies on a Dorothy Dixer and then takes anything up to 20 minutes of question time to announce policy, to explain policy without giving the Opposition an opportunity to debate it? Is he frightened of debate on this subject? Is he using the coward's technique of scuttling off to television, spending the taxpayers' money and not giving the Opposition a voice? Is he frightened of being overwhelmed again on television as he was during the last election campaign? That may be all very well, but why does the Minister come in here and invent mischief? I will give an example. He and the Prime Minister tried to create mischief between the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and myself over alleged conflicting statements regarding Medibank. I will read into the record- it will take only 4 lines- the accusation of the Minister and the Prime Minister. They said that the Leader of the Opposition and I were at basic difference about what we would do with Medibank if we came to government. They quoted the Leader of the Opposition who, in an interview with the 'Financial Review' on 26 February was asked: 
Would you abolish the Medibank scheme? 

 Mr Snedden replied: 
It will depend on the extent to which the Medibank scheme has been imposed on the public. The freedom to reverse the scheme in its entirety is in practice confined. 
If we are looking for honesty in this Parliament it should come not only from Ministers but essentially from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister had that statement in front of him. With his huge entourage of advisers, surely he had my statement in front of him. Having had both statements in front of him he stood up and told this House that the Leader of the Opposition and I were at variance. This is my statement which has been published and which would have been in his office on 3 December 1974 a couple of months earlier. It is headed: 'Statement by Chipp- Shadow Minister for Social Security' and states that the Liberal Party-Country Party government would disband the Health Insurance Commission if returned to power at an appropriate time. I did not consult my Leader before he issued his statement, but those 2 statements are identical, showing identical purposes in our attitude towards Medibank. Both of us made the point that if we by some unfortunate occurrence were not returned to government within the next 12 months or 2 years it would be absurd to contemplate completely dismantling an organisation that had had 2 years to build up and run. This was not possible in the United Kingdom and it would not be possible here. It is, I believe, disgraceful when a Prime Minister and a Minister use their monopoly of time in this House blatantly and deliberately to tell untruths and to cause mischief. I challenge the Minister, in his response, to justify why he added to the mischief and why he added to the untruths of his Prime Minister. 
-Thank you. I did mention earlier in my speech that it is absolutely vital that the National Health Bill (No. 3) be passed if Medibank is to be implemented in any fashion. Without it the Minister still has not the control over the private health funds that he must necessarily have if Medibank is to come into operation on 1 July. However,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will note your concern and I will be particularly relevant to this Bill. In conclusion I should like to give an indication of costs involved. The main concern we have with the national health scheme of the Labor Party is that it will be a deterioration in the quality of health care provided to the Australian people. That can be demonstrated and we have demonstrated it before. The second reason is the question of cost. I have been provided with some figures by Professor Barbara Shenfield, a distinguished authority in the field of national health in Great Britain, who says that the British national health service was estimated to cost £170m a year. It now costs £2,73 lm a year. That was the 1973 figure. Official statistics say that the present British health scheme, which is very similar to this proposed scheme, now needs an additional £500m to be pumped into it immediately as a bare minimum to prevent the service from breaking down completely. This is the kind of lunacy which this Labor Government wants to lead Australia into- something openended; subsidised demand in the name of its socalled health scheme. 
I think it is good to remember that these are the results at the moment of the free national health scheme in Great Britain. Doctors are now emigrating from Great Britain. The general practitioners are threatening to withdraw their services. Consultants are working to rule. The waiting lists for non-urgent surgery and medical care can run up to over one year. There were fewer fully staffed hospitals in 1972 than there were 22 years earlier. There are fewer hospitals fully staffed now than before the beginning of their socalled health scheme. 
-No, they have not. I thank my friend, the honourable member for Murray, for his interjection. The taxpayers must now find £2,73 lm a year for their free health scheme in Britain. That is the result of the experience in the United Kingdom. Even at this late hour on behalf of the Opposition I plead with the Labor Party and I plead with the Minister to stop this insanity because the Government will have not only an open-ended inflationary health scheme impacted upon us but something more serioussomething that probably would cause the most serious damage possible to the Australian people. It will affect their health. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he or his predecessor issued or caused to be issued any instruction or suggestion, to any members of any Police Force under the jurisdiction of the Australian Government, that persons found in possession of marijuana, in such a quantity as to suggest personal use, should not be prosecuted. 
If not, has he heard whether any such instruction has been issued. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has the Government or the Prime Minister used the fact of their friendly relationships with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the People's Republic of China and asked either of those nations to stop providing North Vietnamese regular troops in South Vietnam with arms or other forms of support? 

asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has an appropriation of $2m been set aside to provide financial assistance to voluntary welfare organisations throughout Australia. 
If so, has a public announcement been made as to Unavailability of these funds. 
What criteria will be used to allocate money in this fund. 
It might seem to honourable members that there is an incongruity in my leading for the Opposition in this debate because of my almost complete ignorance- a confessed ignorance- in matters of art and art galleries. Therefore, I will leave it to those more expert honourable members who follow me to deal with the specific issues raised by the Bill. The Opposition shadow Minister responsible for this area is  Senator Rae.  He has asked me to say that, in his usual diligent fashion, he has circulated the State governments and the directors of the State so-called national art galleries on this legislation. He has not yet received any response from any of the State governments but he has received no adverse comment from any of the directors of the State galleries. In fact, what he has received from the directors of the State galleries has been commendation for the Bill. For that reason and for the reason that the Opposition finds no objection to the Bill itself, I declare on behalf of the Opposition that we support the Bill and commend the Government for introducing it. 
I strike one small note of discord at the beginning of my speech which my friend the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  will follow up with some detail. In reading the second reading speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  one could be led to believe that he was the only person interested in this subject and that he has been the champion of establishing a national gallery because he uses the first personal pronoun so many times in his speech. For example, he states: 
Honourable members will be aware of my long standing interest . . . 
Other such expressions may be found in that speech. 
-I do not deny that the Prime Minister has a long standing interest in this matter, but that claim looks ridiculous. The history of this gallery goes way back before 1968 when former Prime Ministers Gorton and McMahon took an extraordinary interest in the establishment of a national gallery. The first point I wish to make is that this is not an initiative of the Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam, or the Labor Party. It is an initiative which was shared, I think, by all members of this House and is now simply being carried on by the Labor Party in Government. 
As I said, the Opposition supports the Bill. I wish to make a few points on the second reading speech of the Prime Minister. First, the Prime Minister says: 
The affairs of the gallery will be conducted by a council including a director of the gallery and not more than 10 other members chose with regard to their knowledge and experience with respect to the visual arts or other areas of knowledge relevant to the affairs of the gallery. 
The constitution of that Council does concern me a little. I am not an expert in art and I do not pretend to be, but what I do say is this: If those people who are vitally and specifically interested in the arts think or believe that this national gallery should be something only for those people who are expert and who can stare at a painting for hours and get all sorts of sublimated joy out of it, it would be a tragedy for our national gallery to develop that way. I would like to think that this should be an opportunity to create our national gallery and to develop it in a way in which it will broaden the interest in an among more people in Australia. 
It would be ghastly if the council of this gallery was specifically inclusive only of art boffins, directors of art galleries, or artists or people who follow that pursuit. I would have thought that that council should include people such as those interested in social welfare who would know the needs and the wants of people who at this time in Australia do not appreciate the niceties of a classical painting or a classical graphic drawing but who can be stimulated to satisfy their minds more in a way in which would add to their enjoyment of life. I would hope that in choosing the council the Government might be directed to that point and might include people other than art boffins and might in fact include simply an ordinary guy- someone who is not specifically interested in art but who might look at the whole concept of the national gallery and try to get it to interest the ordinary people of" Australia. 
Another feature of the Bill which I commend and with which I agree is that it has 2 statutory officers, the director of the Australian National Gallery and the secretary and manager of that gallery. It is provided that the Director shall have the overall responsibility to the Council for the running of the Gallery in its artistic direction. The Secretary-Manager, under the Director, shall manage the day to day administration of the affairs of the Council. I thoroughly agree with that provision because although it is not an unbreakable rule, artistic people are not notorious as good managers and conversely good managers are not notorious as artistic people. I think that this is a very sensible balance that the Government has made in the construction of the Council. The last point I wish to make about the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  concerns the part where he said: 
Much has been said over the last year or two about some of the Gallery's acquisitions of contemporary art from overseas. On balance, I think this has been for the good. Many art-interested Australians have been obliged to reconsider some of their values and tastes and I believe that this is a salutary experience for us all every once in a while. 
I quote from an article by Bernard Smith in the 'Australian' newspaper of 22 February which begins like this: 'What do you think of Whitlam?' a Sydney taxi-driver said to me recently in a state of irritation. 'I call him Van Gogh Whitlam.' 'What,' I said, 'Don't you like Gough or Van Gogh?' 'Yes,* he said, 'I like Van Gogh but I don't like those bloody awful things Whitlam 's buying now. ' 
I think that illustrates the Prime Minister's point. There you have a taxi driver- one of the people whom some journalists and others call 'ockers'- interesting himself in an. I think that controversy in this area, as long as a person is interested in the field of an, is not necessarily a bad thing. 
But when we talk about an, what are we talking about? An can take many forms. I should like to take 60 seconds to give my personal philosophy. It comes to the basis of why any of us should be here, in this House of Parliament as parliamentarians. Surely the only reason that we are here, or should be here, or should remain here is that we can do something to make Australians happier or less unhappy. If none of us meet either of these conditions, I believe we should not be here. This leads me to a definition of happiness. I have found that the one which satisfies my criteria is that happiness is a state where there is stimulation and satisfaction of the 3 components of the human being- the mind, the soul or the spirit, and the body. An is one of those things which can almost simultaneously satisfy and stimulate both the mind and the soul. I believe, and I hope, that the Council of the Gallery would not be carried away with any other criterion than that. Members of the Council should try to provide some stimulation and satisfaction to the minds and spirits of the Australian people. How can they best do that? I should like to make a few brief comments as to show how they might. 
They should not get carried away. Members of the Council who are on reasonably high salaries should not expect that everybody in Australia can visit and view and enjoy the paintings and other works of art in the National Gallery. Canberra is a place which is 200 miles from Sydney, 300 miles from Melbourne, 2500 miles or more from Perth and 1000 miles from Adelaide. The Commonwealth, with virtually unlimited money, was able to buy 'Blue Poles' and other well known works of art. I do not wish to enter into a controversy as to whether ' Blue Poles ' was worth buying or not as I am not an expert. But if this Council were to think that all of Australia can see these works of art it would be mistaken. 
I advocate that one of the first concepts the Council should adopt is that the paintings and works of an acquired should be moved around Australia as much as possible so that everybody can see them. I have heard directors of galleries saying that this is not possible. They say it is impracticable because precious works of art should not be moved. It is said that they cannot be transferred, it is expensive to insure them and so on. I point to the exhibition brought to Australia by  Mrs John  D. Rockefeller. I know that she should not get all of the credit for it but whoever organised the bringing of that exhibition of impressionist paintings to Australia should certainly get credit. I believe 8000 people in Sydney are now queuing up for admission. This gives the lie for ever to the statement that works of art and exhibitions cannot be moved around the country. 
I would like to think that the first concept which the Council adopts is that the precious things which they can buy with the preference that Commonwealth agents have over the States and other people, could be shown to the people in Port Adelaide, the people in Hotham and the people all round Australia. They should have the opportunity to view them. I believe the visiting Museum of Modern Art exhibition has illustrated that this is feasible, practicable and possible. 
As somebody who is a confessed non-art boffin, I believe that the Director of the Gallery should assume when he is doing the layout of the Gallery- the layout of the paintings and the works of art- that most of the people who will go to that Gallery are not experts in art. It should be laid out with simplicity and with some background explanation to people who are interested enough to go to a gallery. I believe that the Director and the Council have a duty not only to put on works of art for display but to do it in a way that will interest anybody who comes to see them. They should try to be evangelistic and try to win to an interest in art the tourists who are now flocking into Canberra. If there is a beautiful building and a beautiful layout the tourist goes there because it is on his schedule of places to visit in Canberra. A director should have imagination and enough humility to be able to appeal to the lowest common denominator. I do not use that word in an offensive sense. He should be able to appeal to a person like me who should be able to say: 'There is a painting and there is an explanation under it concerning its origin or its author or what he is getting at. ' It would then interest me to look at the painting or work of graphic art longer than if I simply saw something that my finite mind in this field of art might not otherwise appreciate. 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  suggesting that evangelism should be limited to proselytising only religious matters? If not, I do not understand his kind interjection. 
-There are a lot of things which I say which the Minister does not understand. That does not bother me at all. Maybe an exhibition could be set out in chronological order. Maybe it could be set out in the order of development of an in particular country. At least it should be put in such a way that the ordinary person can understand it. I am told that in the Capetown Art Gallery- I have never been there- there is a small note under each painting which says what the artist is trying to do and something about the artist. It certainly adds to the enlightenment and understanding of the people who visit the gallery. 
There is another matter which I should like to warn the Council about: It is my experience that in the art galleries in some States, the directors have personal prejudices against some style of art, some period of art and indeed some artists. I should think that one of the jobs of the Council would be to ensure that such prejudices are not expressed. I will give just 2 illustrations. I understand that there are no oil paintings by David Boyd, who although he is not quite as well known as his famous brother is an accomplished artist, in the galleries of New South Wales or Victoria. I wonder whether that is simply an oversight or is due to the prejudice of the directors of those galleries? There are many Australian artists who have won big prizes and whose works are not displayed in any of the galleries. Is that due to the prejudice of the directors? I cite the case of Wesley Penderthy of Melbourne, who won a Sulman Prize for a mural. To my knowledge, none of his murals is hung in any Australian art gallery. 
I think the Council has a responsibility to look at the actions, aspirations, concepts and philosophies of the artistic director of this Gallery. I will not mention any names, but I am appalled by the kind of people who have been appointed to the councils of art galleries in some States. They know less than I do about art. They have been appointed simply because they are belted earls or patrons of the arts in those States. Friends of the directors of art galleries also have been appointed to the councils of those art galleries. I hope that the Council of this Gallery will exercise some responsibility in that respect. 
I conclude by speaking about something which is barely relevant to this Bill but about which I feel very strongly. Anybody who knows a person who is close to the War Memorial or to the Government in Canberra can be led down to some dark vaults in the War Memorial and can view something like $100m worth of beautiful Australian works of art that are hidden down there. It is very difficult to get down there to see them. Apparently the view of the Government- I am not being critical of the Labor Government in this respect because the position is exactly the same now as it was when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power in that both governments have been influenced by the bureaucrats- is that they are not good enough to be hung in government buildings throughout the nation and they are not bad enough to be allowed out into government offices; so they are stored in these deep, dark vaults in the War Memorial. It is like trying to extract a tooth to get one of these paintings to hang in, say, the Parliament Offices in Adelaide, Melbourne or wherever. If it is worth while to have these sorts of riches in Australian art in store, I should have thought that it would be worth while to show them off to the people of Australia and to have them adorning some of the walls of government offices. I should think that it would be a ridiculous exercise for a member of Parliament to try his luck by asking the appropriate authorities to lend one of these paintings to him to hang in his office, as such a request would be refused outright; yet they are being kept where nobody can see them. These works of art are being wasted. 
The Opposition supports the Bill, with the warnings I have sounded and with the point that my friend the honourable member for Gwydir and perhaps other speakers will make, namely, that this initiative is not entirely the prerogative of the Labor Government. We on this side of the House take a great deal of pride in sharing the fulfilment of a dream which began many years ago. 
-With the full support of the Opposition I move the following as a discussion of a matter of public importance: 
The underhanded and cavalier manner which the Government is using to effect changes in the drug laws affecting the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the States. 
This concern spreads over the entire population of Australia as 1 hope to demonstrate. May I go through the extraordinary sequence of events which has led to this matter of public importance? In the middle of last year I received information that an instruction had been given by someone high in authority in the Government to the Australian Capital Territory Police not to prosecute any person found in possession of any products of the plant cannabis, that is, marihuana, hashish or liquid hashish. Rather than making a fuss I tried to do the right thing. Soon after Parliament resumed for the Budget session, on  23  August, I placed a question on notice to the then Attorney-General, now  Mr Justice  Murphy. I asked him: 
1 ) Has he or his predecessor issued or caused to be issued any instruction or suggestion, to any members of any Police Force under the jurisdiction of the Australian Government, that persons found in possession of marihuana, in such a quantity as to suggest personal use, should not be prosecuted. 
If not, has he heard whether any such instruction has been issued. 
That was not a difficult question. I do not ask many questions on notice. I think that is the only question on notice I have asked of the AttorneyGeneral who was then in another place. I would have thought that that was a question which could be answered in a matter of days. I did not get an answer until  3  April  1975, 7  months later. The answer came from the present AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby).  After  7  months' ingestion one would have thought that the answer would have been better than the one I got. It is a most extraordinary piece of literature. It states: 
I ask the House to note the phrase 'for some years'- has been not to arrest a person in possession of marihuana unless the quantity in his possession indicates that he is trafficking in marihuana and that, where there are doubts, the person is not to be arrested but the matter is to be reported. 
Now we come to a sentence by itself from the Attorney-General: 
I see no reason to alter the practice. 
Let me analyse the first part of his answer. He says that it has been the practice in the Australian Capital Territory for some years not to arrest anybody in possession of marihuana. That is an untruth. That is an inaccurate statement. According to his colleague in the Senate,  Senator James  McClelland, last Thursday- I shall refer to that in a moment- there was a prosecution as late as  1  November  1974,  just  4½  months ago. So we have a situation in which a Minister in the Senate was saying in the Estimates debate that there was a prosecution  4  months ago, but then the Attorney-General was saying to me, in reply to a question on notice and after having  7  months to think about my question, that there had not been a prosecution for years. That is the first comment I wish to make. The second comment is that the Attorney-General said: 
I see no reason to alter the practice. 
He is saying there that there is a practice in the Australian Capital Territory not to arrest people in possession of marihuana. He says that he personally sees no reason to alter that practice. In other words, this Minister is saying that there is a law, that the police are not acting in accordance with the law by prosecuting users and that he, the Attorney-General and first law officer of the Commonwealth, sees no reason to alter that practice. To me that is an extraordinary situation. I cannot explain it and I would like the Minister when he rises to explain it. I still persist with the question I asked the Attorney-General: Was an instruction given? Here is the second extraordinary statement which the Attorney-General made in his answer: 
No instructions have been issued - 
That is, no instructions for the police not to prosecute- although I understand that the former Attorney-General discussed the matter briefly with the Commissioner, Australian Capital Territory Police Force. 
What in the name of fortune does that mean? I have information that an instruction has been issued at the highest level. I asked the Minister was it issued and he replied: 
No instructions have been issued although I understand that the former Attorney-General discussed the matter briefly with the Commissioner, Australian Capital Territory Police Force. 
Did former  Senator Murphy  issue an instruction to the Police Force or to the Police Force chief? If he did not, why was it necessary to put this addendum to the answer: although I understand that the former Attorney-General discussed the matter briefly with the Commissioner, Australian Capital Territory Police Force. 
What was discussed briefly? Did former  Senator Murphy  say ' Continue with your prosecutions ' or did he say not to prosecute? The House is still floundering for an explanation of this matter. 
On about  4  April, early this month, the Attorney-General on behalf of the Labor Government said virtually: 'I see no reason to alter this practice'. In other words, we were to have a change in the law in the Australian Capital Territory without any Bill being brought into this Parliament, without any ordinance being brought into this Parliament, but simply on an instruction from the chief legal officer or by practice of the police. The Attorney-General thought he could get away with that. He thought 'That is fair enough; I am going to have a welling up of opinion in the Australian Capital Territory among all the pot smokers'; and that the rest of his friends would be saying 'Good on you, Kep, this is sane government'. But that was not to be because on 10 April the newspaper in this city, the 'Canberra Times', had an article headed: ' Misleading reply on ACT drugs '. It said: 
The Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  made a misleading statement in a written reply to a question on notice on Tuesday. 
Then it said: 
Sources in the Attorney-General's Department said yesterday that a person possessing marihuana would be reported to the legal adjudication . . . 
I would like to know with whom the AttorneyGeneral discussed the answer he gave to me before he gave it to the  Clerk.  Surely to goodness he discussed it with the Attorney-General's Department. If he did, did the AttorneyGeneral's Department disown him the next day or was this simply a statement the AttorneyGeneral made himself after discussing the matter with a few of his trendy friends in Cabinet. I do not think he did even that. With the regularity with which we find some of these trendy people in the Press gallery constantly in offices of Ministers, one wonders where the Minister is seeking his advice on such a matter. Then on 15 April the Minister himself burst into print and criticised me for becoming hysterical about it. 
I certainly did not say the things about floodgates which the Press reported me as saying. I make this aside,  Mr Speaker:  It never ceases to amaze me how some of these people in the Press gallery ring us on the telephone asking for a quotation and, when we give it to them, put something in quotation marks, attributed to us, that never passed from our lips. However, I have not time to deal with that. The Attorney-General said: 
The fact that no prosecutions have taken place here for some time probably would have gone unnoticed were it not for politicians like  Mr Chipp  trying to get on a bandwaggon and get their name in the papers. 
I am terribly sorry; I apologise to the AttorneyGeneral. He was trying to bring about a change in the law in a sneaky, underhand way and in contempt of Parliament, and I found him out and brought it to the notice of the Parliament. I am terribly sorry. I am supposed to apologise for that. He operates to a set of standards, which I certainly do not accept. But the mere fact of having a law in the Australian Capital Territory different from the law enforced by the Customs 
Department when people returned from overseas in possession of products of the plant cannabis, apparently escaped the AttorneyGeneral. Does he seriously want people to believe that he sees no reason to alter the practice in the Australian Capital Territory- that it is all right for people in Canberra to possess marihuana with immunity from prosecution? Will some poor devil who gets off a plane from Bali with 3 or 4 joints on him be arrested and prosecuted under the Customs Act? Will there be 2 standards under the one Government and within the one department? This is the absurd situation which has been reached. 
My friend, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  brought the matter to a head again last Thursday when he asked whether the Attorney-General knew some of the danger signals of marihuana. The Attorney-General gave a most extraordinary answer. On the front bench it is sometimes difficult to hear full answers given by Ministers. The Attorney-General is sometimes even a little more incoherent than some of his colleagues. Sometimes his answers are hard to pick up. I am indebted to a very astute journalist in the Press Gallery,  Mr Laurie  Oakes, who heard the Attorney-General's answer on the microphone and brought it to my attention. When one reads the Hansard report what the Attorney-General said last Thursday was highly significant. He said he would do 2 things: He would introduce the International Convention on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances into this Parliament for ratification- I thought it was strange that he answered my friend, the honourable member for Kennedy, in that way and I missed his next few words- and he would change the laws in relation to marihuana and cannabis which would then have an over-riding effect on the States. To me this is an example of the most blackguardly impertinence I have ever heard from this Government. By introducing this Treaty ratification into the Parliament the Government could then, as I understand it, use the external affairs power to impact and improve its laws and regulations on to the States. 
When I was Minister for Customs and Excise we had many conferences with the State Ministers of Health and their officers, with the State Attorney-General's Departments and with every expert we could find to determine whether marihuana was a dangerous drug and what was the best thing to do for the people of Australia. Only after conferences did we reach agreement and decide on uniform drug laws. But this Ministerthis Government- is simply going to have this Parliament ratify this treaty and then pass some law decriminalising marihuana or legalising it, or making it an offence equal to selling sly grog and impact that on every State government. That law will apply to everybody in the country. If the Minister believes that pot should be decriminalised or that it is harmless- it is a respectable view but one with which I do not agree- and if he wants to change the law, why does he not come into this Parliament and introduce legislation and let it be debated? Why does he not seek expert advice from people in the field? As recently as a few months ago, there was not one police force in Australia and not one drug squad on any police force- I am including the Narcotics Bureau in addition to the 6 State police forces and the Commonwealth Police. Force- which would have recommended to the Minister the lowering of penalties in the way he proposes. 
I have not time to go into all the clinical evidence. All I am saying is that cannabis sativa in its 3 forms- marihuana, the drug from the flower; hashish, the drug from the resin in the stem; and a third dangerous drug, liquid hashish or hashish oil which is an extract of hashish forty times stronger than marihuana and possessing a very high content of THC, tetrahydrocannabinol is a dangerous hallucinogenic drug. Does the Attorney-General mean to legalise that too or to reduce the penalties for possessing the drug? I ask him not to think that he can simply change the laws relating to use and possession without it having an effect on the pushers. If he makes the quantity for use 40 joints, then any pusher can come to Canberra or anywhere else and have 4000 joints in a hole in a garage or somewhere else, and as long as he does not have 40 joints on him at any one time he is immune from prosecution. All he could be charged with is that equivalent to a traffic offence. I have evidence from experts showing the danger signals about cannabis. I ask that the Minister think carefully before he proceeds. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired.  
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the number of (a) public ward beds and (b) private ward beds in each State in respect of which hospital benefits are payable. 
-The 2 Bills we are now discussing deal with increases in pension rates announced by the Government some time ago. To remind the House, the age pension for single people is to be increased by $5 a week and the married rate is to be increased by $4.25 a week. The legislation also deals with the increase in unemployment benefits, the second phase of the abolition of the means test and something else concerning the unemployment benefit to which I will refer in a moment. 
At the outset I say that the Opposition will support both of these Bills and give them the expedition that the Government requires. Before I proceed with my speech may I try to overcome an illusion that seems to be around in the electorates. There seems to be some mischief in many electorates- in some cases caused deliberately by members of the Australian Labor Party, in other instances caused by other factors- where the blame for these increases in pensions not being paid earlier seems to attach to the Federal Opposition. This is basically and palpably untrue. 
On the second last day on which this House sat before the recess, which was 22 April, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  introduced the Bills which we are now debating. The intention was to have the pension increases payable as from 1 May. The Opposition could not understand why there was so much delay in introducing the Bills. But as I said, they were brought in on the day before we rose for the recess. In the company of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is the Leader of the House on this side of the chamber, I spoke to the Minister for Social Security and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and said: 'Look, if you want these Bills passed before the House rises for the recess we will give them to you today or tomorrow with the minimum of debate and we will be prepared to pass them in the Senate'. If that offer of the Opposition had been accepted these Bills would have been passed by both Houses of Parliament by 23 April so as to allow the increases to be paid by 1 May. 
Today is 13 May and we are still debating in the House of Representatives these 2 Bills which will be passed today without any delay on the part of the Opposition. They will go to the Senate where we will not offer any opposition and they will be passed there with expedition. But the point I make is that the reason pensioners have not yet received these increases is that the Government did not bring the legislation forward for debate on 23 April. When I made the offer in company with the honourable member for New England, the Leader of the House and the Minister for Social Security said: 'Yes, we will do that and bring them on tomorrow'. When I saw the notice paper for the next day I was surprised to find that the Bills were not listed for debate. I still do not know why they were not so listed on that day. Because of the mischief that has been caused, in some cases deliberately by members of the Labor Party blaming the Liberal and National Country Parties, I thought I should make the position clear. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Henty is not in the House because I wrote her a note saying that out of courtesy I wanted to inform her that during the debate on this legislation I would be making some critical remarks of her. I refer to  Mrs Joan  Child, the honourable member for Henty, who wrote a letter on 1 May 1975 to the 'Moorabbin Standard', a local newspaper that circulates extensively and almost exclusively in her electorate, in my electorate, the electorate of Isaacs and to some extent the electorate of Holt. I am astonished at what she had to say in her letter but my innate sense of gallantry will restrain me from saying about this lady what I really believe and what I would have said had the honourable member been a man. Therefore, with my usual gallantry I will restrain myself and I will not say what I really believe. I read to honourable members what she wrote to the editor. She said: 

 Sir, I have had numerous phone calls and representations this week from pensioners who have not received increases in their pension cheques. The increase was passed through the 2 Houses of Parliament last month and should have been paid on May 1 . The Appropriation Bill to appropriate money to pay the increases passed through the House of Representatives last week and the Senate failed to pass it. 
In fact, 27 Labor senators voted to sit on and pass the Bill while 28 Liberal-Country Party senators voted to adjourn the House. The Independent senator from Albury was not present having returned to Albury. The House was duly adjourned at 5 p.m. (Although the House of Representatives sat through till 1 1 p.m.). As the Appropriation Bill did not pass the Senate we cannot, therefore, pay the increases. When Parliament resumes the Bill should be passed by the Senate and the increase will be paid retrospective to May 1. Signed (Joan Child) Member for Henty. 
I repeat a certain extract of the letter which states: 
The increase . . . 
That is to the pensions- was passed through the 2 Houses of Parliament last month and should have been paid on May 1 . 
That refers to the very Bill which we are debating today, 13 May.  Mrs Child,  because obviously she has had a lot of complaints from pensioners that they have not received the increase in pension, has resorted to the paltry, mean, untrue device of saying: 'Well, the Bills have been passed by the Houses of Parliament but the reason you have not got your increases, dear pensioners, is that the Liberal and Country Party senators went home early'. It is bad form in this place for someone who has been here for 13 years, as 1 have, to give advice to somebody who has been here for only 2 years and who looks like being what is called a oncer. But I shall remove that restraint from myself and suggest to  Mrs Child  that she will guarantee herself to be a oncer in the Parliament if she continues to tell deliberate untruths which she knows to be misleading, as I am sure the reading of that letter into the record indicates. 
When I reported this news in my Party room today as a matter of interest, I was surprised to hear many of my colleagues in the Opposition, such as the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  and many others, say: 'Yes, but that rumour that it was the Liberal and Country Parties in the Senate which stopped the pension increases being paid before 1 May is around our electorates too'. I hope that what I have said today will at least persuade the listening audience, which at this time of day is at its largest, of the untruth of those allegations. I do not attach any blame in this to the Minister for Social Security. As far as I know he has been ignorant of the mischief which has been put abroad by members of his own Party. Being the man that he is, I am sure that had he known that that mischief had been put abroad he would have disowned it in a flash. I know that when he gets up to respond to the debate on the second reading speech he will disown the untruths told by the honourable member for Henty. 
The cost of these pension increases, that is, the $5 and the $4.25 for married people, will represent about $480m a year additional to the Treasury. Of course, this adds to the massive deficit which this Government has already run up in its mismanagement of the economy. The Opposition does not object to these increases, we support them. If it had not been for this massive increase of $5 a week to pensioners, they would be the ones in the community who would suffer because of the unbelievable mismanagement of the economy by the Labor Government. It will cost taxpayers almost $500m extra to finance this plugging of another hole. The Minister, in his second reading speech, states that this increase goes towards the Labor Party's goal of bringing pensions up to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, seasonally adjusted. He makes the point proudly that the increase brings the pension up to 24.5 per cent of male average weekly earnings, seasonally adjusted. Then he cannot restrain himself. He has a tilt at the Opposition by pointing out that when the Liberals were last in power the pension was only 2 1 per cent of average weekly earnings. I do not quibble at bis figures. But I wish he would tell the full story because as of today, 13 May, when the $5 has not yet been paid to pensioners, the pension which pensioners are now receiving is 21.1 per cent of male average weekly earnings, seasonally adjusted. 
So, as of this day, the Labor Party is and has been paying pensioners at a rate which is equal to the percentage of average weekly earnings which the Minister denounced the last Liberal Government for paying. The tragedy is that as soon as this increase becomes law- whenever it becomes law- and is payable, from that day onwards its percentage of average weekly earnings will continue to be eroded because of the rampant inflation which is going on in this country and about which the Labor Party does not seem to care. Our policy in the Opposition has been stated clearly. We believe in the indexation of pensions. We do not believe that pensions should be a political football and that a Minister should come into the House and grandstand by saying: 'We will give you pensioners $5 or $6'. We believe and we have announced as our policy that pensions should be indexed and tied automatically to the appropriate index for increases twice a year so that they will not be susceptible and subject to political chicanery. 
-The Minister asks: 'What is the appropriate index?' I am glad of the interjection because the Minister has deliberately misquoted me and the extract from 'The Way Ahead', which is the policy document of the LiberalCountry Party of Australia, when he has said that the Liberal and Country Parties would index the pensions to the consumer price index. If the Minister searches 'The Way Ahead' from now until kingdom come he will not see such a reference. What he will see is that we will index the pension to what, after the final Henderson report recommendations, will be a suitable index. Maybe it will be average weekly earnings. Maybe there will be another index. But as I pointed out to the Minister for Social Security in another speech, because of the way in which this Government is mismanaging the economy, with rampant inflation and with unemployment rising, it might be to the disadvantage of pensioners to have their pension indexed and tied to average weekly earnings. There may well be another index which will give more justice and equity. This Bill increases unemployment benefits also. We do not object to that. In fact, we compliment the Labor Party on adopting Liberal-Country Party policy in making unemployment benefits payable as soon as a person is unemployed or becomes sick.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will know that previously when a person got the sack he had to wait a week before he was eligible for unemployment benefits. 
I acknowledge the interjection of the honourable member for Barton and say it is true. It is true also that that policy has been carried on by the Labor Party for the last 2 years. In May 1974 we announced that in the case where there was genuine hardship, where a man with 3 children had been sacked from the job that it was inequitable that he had to wait a week for the unemployment benefit. We could see no justice in that. He would have no income coming into his house to feed himself and his 3 children. So we recommended- it came out as policy- that unemployment benefits begin from the day after a man is sacked. Since May 1974 we have been pleading with the Labor Party to implement this. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  drew my attention to this matter. I am glad that the Government has now copied our policy. I compliment the Government on doing so. I also compliment it on extending the benefit so that it is paid to a former prisoner as soon as he is released from gaol. This is a progressive reform of which we approve. 
I would like to remind the House of the cost of unemployment benefits now. Unemployment is reaching a very high level, and that costs the nation an enormous amount of money. I will detail these figures very quickly. Unemployment benefits for the year will cost $158m. The Regional Employment Development scheme will cost $ 15.5m. The structural adjustment assistance scheme- that is, assistance to individuals because of tariff changes- will cost $30m. That is a total of $203m. The indirect costs of unemployment are through the National Employment and Training scheme- under which history will show some of the great scandals of our time have been perpetrated- which will cost $14m; the special adjustment assistance, which will cost $0.267m; the special assistance to non-metropolitan areas scheme, which will cost $4m; and the special payments to the States for unemployment, which will cost $240m. The total of those direct and indirect costs means that spending on unemployment relief this year at this moment looks as though it will be $46 1 m. 
That $46 lm is being paid by the Australian taxpayer to people for doing nothing, paid for one of two reasons: Either there is no work for them or there is work but the scandalous way the Labor Party has softened the work test has allowed to flourish in this country a race of bludgers who are doing nothing, want to do nothing and yet are being paid for it by the Australian taxpayer. That $46 lm is not a small sum for the taxpayer to be paying out for something that is completely non-productive. One could build on that by saying that the reduction in sales tax on motor vehicles is costing the Australian taxpayer something. That was a device used by the Government to get employment moving, as were the extra funds for housing. So the total cost of unemployment which is a direct result of the economic mismanagement of the Government is over $460m. Because it is so costly, I suggest that there is a need for careful administration. 
I have referred to bludgers. I will give 2 examples which bother me very much. I am indebted to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who brought this matter to the attention of the House a few weeks ago. Instead of giving specific examples, I will mention a couple of matters which I think will cause some concern. A survey was conducted in March by the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd in Melbourne. This is the organisation which for years conducted the gallup polls. As I understand it, this was the first independent unemployment survey conducted. At that time the official unemployment figure was 298 000 people; say 300 000 people were out of work, according to the Government. The Roy Morgan Research Centre in its survey found by a sample of 10 000 people- by this sampling method great accuracy can be obtained, as we know from the organisation's surveying of election results- that only 224 000 people were out of work. This leaves a balance of 75 000 people unaccounted for. In other words, the Government says that the number of people unemployed is 75 000 more than an independent sampling survey indicates. 
What are the possibilities? One is that the margin for error in the independent survey is so great that it is wrong by 75 000 out of 300 000. To anyone who has studied statistical method that would be an absurd proposition. Of course the margin for error is not that great. Could it be that the Commonwealth Employment Service is so lax in taking out the cards of people when jobs are found for them that the unemployment figures are inflated each month? That would be an absurd proposition, because I am sure that a ministerial direction has been sent out to every CES office saying: 'For goodness sake, as soon as you find somebody a job take his card out of the file so as to make the unemployment figure realistic'. So that is not a possibility. 
What I do think is a possibility- and this terrifies me- is that there are 75 000 dual or multi registrations of people who are collecting not one cheque but more than one cheque and who are registered at more than one place, and this is not being policed by the Minister or by the Department for several reasons. One reason is that the Minister does not want it policed because he does not want to put pressure on the unemployed. Another is that the Department is so hideously overworked at the moment that it could not possibly police it. I have had brought to my notice cases in which the computer keeps paying people for whom the Department has found a job 2, 3 and 4 weeks before. How many honest people return those cheques? How many people do not? Does the Department follow these people up? If so, when? The Department of Social Security is now responsible for policing the abuses of unemployment benefits and because of the overwork associated with the economic situation the policing has not been carried out on a sufficiently large scale. 
Abuses of unemployment benefits are becoming simpler. Why the Minister and the Department have oversimplified the system and made it so easy to get unemployment relief, I do not know; but they have. Now only one form must be lodged monthly with the Department of Social Security to keep those cheques rolling in, and that form can be lodged by mail. Under the old system a person had to lodge the form personally each week at the local CES office in order to continue being paid the unemployment benefit. I am prepared to be as sympathetic to the unemployed as anybody. In fact, the Opposition's posture on paying the unemployed immediately they are sacked indicates that. But I do not think it is any great hardship for a person who is unemployed to go to the local CES office once a week, lodge a form personally and say: 'I am still unemployed'. To allow it to be done by proxy once a month means that a person can sit at home, post the form each month to the Department of Social Security and collect a cheque. We have heard of Utopia and the welfare state; but this is ridiculous. 
I refer to a letter, which I have been given authority to quote, from a firm of licensed surveyors, M. M. Fisher and Associates, of Altona Street, West Perth. It says that they recently advertised in Perth for survey hands to be engaged on both rural and metropolitan work. After advertising extensively they received replies to their advertisements from 5, 3 and 2 people respectively. While all the figures published show unemployment running at record levels and far in excess of the 1961 credit squeeze level, an advertisement this firm placed in 1961 brought 50 applicants; whereas its advertisements now bring 5 applicants. Where are the unemployed? Or is it that they have never had it so good? Is it that it does not pay them to work? Is it that they do not have to meet a work test? 
This is costing the nation over $400m, and I think it is the job of a responsible Opposition on behalf of taxpayers to ask the Government: 'Are you spending our money responsibly or are you giving it to any bludger who wants to stay at home and post in an application form once a month?'  Mr Fisher  goes on to give an example which is sickening. He says that he is prepared to back it up. He said: 
An example of this is in our neighbourhood: Six young people sharing a house, all on the dole, enjoying a combined income- before casual jobs- of $2 1 6 per week. 
That will be increased by another $30 per week as soon as we pass this Bill. They are receiving $216 each week from us, the taxpayers.  Mr Fisher  continues: 
Allow $35 for rent, a figure 1 know they pay, $30 for each of the 2 cars they run, and they have a 'family' income of $ 1 2 1 after housing and transport expenses are paid. 

 Mr Fisher asks the plaintive question: 
How many families of six are in this enviable position? 
There is the naked question: How many families of six are in this enviable position when the breadwinner is working? In this house there is not a soul working, and they are on the dole, being paid for by us. This disturbs the Opposition. One wonders how far we will go with this ridiculous welfare state. I am also concerned about the Department of Social Security. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' is sometimes ridiculed in this place by the Government. I remind the Government of an article which appeared on 2 April 1975. It is headed: 
Six-hour wait at Social Security office. 
The article states: 
At 9.30 a.m. yesterday,  Mrs Gloria  MacLennan arrived at the Department of Social Security . . . Pitt Street and took ticket number 105. 
We give ticket numbers to people now. We are treating them like cattle as they go in to wait for social service benefits. The article continues: 
In due course her number was called- at 3.50 p.m. well over 6 hours later. In the meantime, she sat among more than 50 people, each one steadily growing more angry. She watched as one young girl fainted. 
So the story goes on.  Mrs MacLennan  is not alone. The article states further: 
An elderly man leaving the same office yesterday said that he had received no cheque for several weeks. His landlady was knocking on the door of his lodgings each day asking if his cheque had arrived. 
Others complained bitterly of waiting times comparable with  Mrs MacLenna's 
The advertised opening hours of the office are from 8.30 a.m. until 4.5 1 p.m. Yesterday the 'office closed ' sign was put up at 3.30; inside the doors were more than 50 people, many having been there since the morning. 
I do not know whether that is true. I should like departmental officers who are present to tell me through the Minister, whether that is true. If it is true, it is a national scandal. If it is true, will the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass),  who is supposed to be humanitarian but who laughs - 
-Do you find it amusing that people have to wait 6 hours at the Department of Social Security? 
We are deeply concerned at the mismanagement because of the number of people involved and because of the state of the economy. I have expressed concern on behalf of the Opposition but because of the rate of inflation and the difficulties experienced by pensioners we support these measures and will give them expedition both here and in the other place. 
-I would strongly oppose the amendment and support the Bill. Might I say at the outset that I have always been opposed to any groups of people in a community who try to impose their will and wishes on to everybody else whether they be religious persuasions, or social or political convictions. This has not to my knowledge happened in respect of this matter, although some of the representations that I have received from both sides of this subject have smacked of that objective. This Bill does not make it compulsory for those people who cannot get on together in marriage to have a divorce. What it does do is to facilitate 2 people separating within the law when they find they cannot live together or do not wish to live together or have come to a decision to separate legally. 
In social questions I am motivated a good deal by the teachings of the old liberals, and I am reminded of a great liberal- one of the early ones- who said that the only time the state is justified in interfering in human behaviour is when the actions of a person can damage others. In this respect when one looks at the institution of marriage one is in a dilemma. It could be argued that the action of 2 people who decide to dissolve their marriage at will is not hurting the rest of society and therefore we as parliamentarians have no right to intrude into that contract of marriage and we should let them go ahead. But we must consider the proposition that our whole society is built upon the fabric of marriage. It is an institution on which our society as a Western society is built and we must not forget that a product of marriage is children who are human beings and who can be hurt by the irresponsible behaviour on the part of parents. Therefore there is justification for us coming into this matter. If marriage could be dissolved at will in the way it is in some countries according to some religions by pointing a finger two or three ways or nodding a head two or three times I believe that our society would be poorer because of the way in which we live. 
In Western style democracies where a feeling of so-called romantic love is normally the only motivating force that leads to a contract of marriage, unlike Eastern countries and philosophies, and where the wishes, advice and even the dictates of the parents are not only ignored but deplored, situations may arise in which 2 people find after the so-called romantic love attraction has worn off that the union is anathema to both of them. I believe that those 2 people are entitled to make a decision to break that contract, but it has to be done responsibly, with the minimum of hurt to society and to children. Therefore, as I think the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  said early in the debate, it is a question of judgment. My judgment leads me to vote against the amendment of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  which would provide that, if there is mutual consent, the marriage may be dissolved after 3 months separation. I think that that would lead to irresponsibility. My judgment leads me to oppose the amendment of" the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  for divorce by consent after 6 months separation. 
I come now to what is contained in the Bill. I am opposed vigorously to the kind of philosophy behind the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)-that  is, the reintroduction of fault. Nothing could drag us back more surely to the dark ages, to bitterness, acrimony and the worst things in human behaviour between a man and a woman who are married than the reintroduction of fault. I suggest that honourable members look at clause 114 which provides for wounded parties, in the circumstances which the honourable member for Wentworth described, to seek some justice. May I remind the Committee that under his amendment, even if a husband is bashing his wife there is no provision for the wife to leave her husband. While the petition is being lodged she continues to live with him and continues to be bashed. Such an amendment brings back the worst of all the old legislation and does not really improve anything. Therefore I am opposed to the amendment. 
I ask this question of the present Minister for Social Security. It is about the confusion in the Government surrounding the tax deductibility, after Medibank commences, of private medical and hospital insurance contributions. Did the present Minister, who I understand is soon to become the new Treasurer, state categorically on 1 7 March that contributions for private insurance would continue to be deductible? Did the present Treasurer, who we understand is to become the new Minister for Social Security, say on 21 May that the Government's intentions would be made known at the appropriate time? Did the Minister seize the unique opportunity presented to him last week to have a full and frank discussion on this confusion with the then Acting Treasurer? If he missed that chance, will he quickly clarify the matter with the present Treasurer who has now returned, or will he tell us how many days we will have to wait before the Treasurer-elect will to able to give us a final answer to this question? 
-The best way I can describe this matter of public importance is as fantastic. It is fantastic. Fantastic is a word which has 2 basic meanings. Colloquially Australians have used it to mean good or great. But the literal meaning of the word fantastic is that something is unbelievable. That is exactly what this matter of public importance which has been brought on at this time is. It is unbelievable that the Labor Party would bring on this motion. We have the economy in absolute unmanageable chaos, drifting around like a rudderless ship. We have the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  one of the most discredited and disgraced Ministers ever to sit on those benches, who is trying to flog off Australia's credit abroad to raise $2,000m. We have a spill in the air. It can be seen on the faces of honourable members opposite. It is fantastic to look at the looks on their faces as they sit there. We even had their own Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who, because - 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro, who always makes inane interjections, says that it is wishful thinking. I remind him that his own Prime Minister last Thursday morning before breakfast, when he recorded an interview for 'Monday Conference', which I would think is a pretty kinky time of day to record 'Monday Conference' anyway, but that is when he did it, said that he wanted a spill. Here we have a government whose own Leader says in effect that he does not trust his Ministry- the 26 of them- enough, and therefore he wants a spill. We have that running at the moment in the Labor Party. We have the second Treasurer  (Dr. J. F. Cairns)  in a period of 12 months sacked in disgrace- the Treasurer who will go down in history as the Treasurer of this Commonwealth who never presented a Budget. We have the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who could not wait to quit, who could not wait to split from this rabble who sat behind him and who are doing this to the country. He could not wait for the chance to leave. We have all these things. 
The attempts of private health funds to mislead contributors. 
I am at a loss to understand how the honourable member for Hotham can relate that subject to his comments on the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
-I thank the House. What the honourable member for Kingston has done, as an MP, as a member of the medical profession, is to send thousands of these letters out asking people to welsh on a deal, asking them not to pay their debts but if they can get away with something from the health funds to do it I ask the honourable member for Kingston to stand up and deny that he has done this sort of despicable thing. I can guarantee him that in his borderline seat of Kingston the morality surrounding the sending out of a letter like that will be made well known to the constituents at the next election. This matter of public importance is a farce. It is humbug. It is pathetic and, as I began to say, it is, according to a literal translation, fantastic. 
I would like to make a brief comment. I would not agree with the amendment moved by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  In fact, one might say that it is the last motion he will ever move as Minister for Social Security. I feel a tinge of sadness at that. 
It has been a harmonious relationship between the Minister and me over a period of 2 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Was the subsidy payable to intensive care patients, when first introduced, SO per cent greater then the ordinary care subsidy. 
Is the present subsidy now considered to be quite inadequate to cover the additional cost of caring for intensive care patients. 
Is it proposed to increase the subsidy payable to these patients. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he information as to what sum is held by the Salvation Army, the Australian Red Cross Society, St Vincent de Paul Society and other major voluntary organisations for the relief and assistance of persons affected by the Darwin cyclone. 
If this information is not currently available, will he endeavour to obtain it. 
What sum from voluntary donations is held by the Australian Government to assist victims of the Darwin cyclone. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the present procedure for admission of patients to nursing homes is cumbersome and unnecessary. 
Is it also a fact that the current system, that has applied since January 1973, which was designed to limit the number and type of patients admitted to nursing homes, has resulted in a very small number of patients only in each State being refused admission. 
Will the scheme be altered to avoid the unnecessary wastage of time by nursing home staff, medical practitioners and officers of his Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a serious position exists in Western Australia with regard to the subsidy payable to patients in nursing homes. 
When will the Government fulfil its election promises in regard to the provision of an adequate subsidy for nursing home patients. 
Will urgent action be taken to alleviate the severe strain and anxiety being caused to nursing home patients in Western Australia who are in many cases paying up to $40 per fortnight above their pension. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What sums were allocated in Victoria for undergraduate education in respect of (a) social workers, ( b) occupational therapists, (c) speech therapists and (d) physiotherapists during each of the years 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
Is any expansion planned in the number of undergraduate places for (a) social workers, (b) occupational therapists, (c) speech therapists and (d) physiotherapists. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many undergraduate positions were there in Victoria for (a) social workers, (b) occupational therapists, (c) speech therapists and (d) physiotherapists in each of the years 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974. 
How many undergraduates are presently training in Victoria in (a) social work, (b) occupational therapy, (c) speech science and (d) physiotherapy. 
3 ) What is the estimated output of ( a ) social workers, ( b ) occupational therapists, (c) speech therapists and (d) physiotherapists at the end of 1975. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice. 
1 ) How many positions for (a) social workers, (b) occupational therapists, (c) speech therapists and (d) physiotherapists were there in Victoria in each of the years 1971,1972,1973 and 1974. 
How many of the positions for (a) social workers, (b) occupational therapists, (c) speech therapists and (d) physiotherapists were filled in Victoria in each of the years 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-We are debating a very important Bill, which is colloquially known as the 1975 Budget. We are now in the Committee stage of the Budget Bill and we are considering the expenditure of departments or groups of departments. At present we are dealing with the Department of Health, the Department of Repatriation and Compensation and the Department of Social Security. As the shadow Minister for Social Security I shall address my remarks to the Department of Social Security. The Committee is being asked tonight to pass $1 billion or $ 1,000m worth of expenditure to be spent by the Department of Social Security. The Department spends money for the benefit essentially of people in need. The Committee is now being asked to vote on a Bill which proposes the spending of $ 1,000m of taxpayers' money to people in need. In other words, the Government is saying: 'We, the Government, know better than you taxpayers how to spend your money. We are going to take $ 1,000m of your income in the form of taxes and we are going to spend that on people in need'. This disturbs me especially when I ask myself how the Government has spent money over the period of almost 3 years since it has been in power. What has been the Government's performance in the field of social welfare? 
-It is absolutely tragic; it is pathetic. I will ignore the remarks, as contemptible as they usually are, of the honourable member for Prospect. The only reason he seems to speak in this House is to say something nasty or contemptible. He is building up quite a reputation in that respect. 
The Government distinguishes itself after 3 years with this headline: 'Government freezes social aid'. That is the net sum total of its performances in social welfare. After 3 years the Government says to the poor, to the indigent, to the disadvantaged, to the migrant and to every person in need: 'Look, we have fouled up the economy so badly, we have made such a mess of things, we have mismanaged things so badly, so atrociously, that we have to freeze any social aid or social reforms'. That is bad enough. But what is going to happen if inflation keeps on the rate it is going? Are the people going to suffer, those who are poor? 
The Government now finds itself in a dilemma. It seems to have realised that over-using the money pump or the printing presses will not cure welfare problems. So in desperation it has called for a one or 2-year wait on any new initiatives while inflation is cured. This is one of the tragedies of socialism, it is one of the tragedies of this Government, that the poor, the aged and the disadvantaged, the very people whom this Government supposedly champions, are made the scapegoats for its errors. 
I would like to take one example, the example of pensions. The Government has now welshed on another promise, the promise that it would keep pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I used the word 'pathetic' earlier in my speech- the Government's action in this regard is pathetic. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his 1 972 policy speech said this: 
Under our Government the pension will never be allowed to fall below the level of 25 per cent of male average weekly earnings. 
I should like to compliment the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on his thoughtful speech. He will notice that everybody listened to him courteously. I have criticised him before for making nasty interjections, but if he makes the type of thoughtful contribution that he has made today he will encourage thoughtful debate on health care services. I found myself more in agreement than in disagreement with what he said. There was only one fault. I say with great respect, and not trying to score a point, that he did not speak to the motion standing in his name which reads: 
That this House notes with satisfaction higher standards of health insurance cover provided for all Australians through the introduction of Medibank. 
He did not speak to that motion. As that is the motion before the Chair, on behalf of the Opposition I move an amendment, which will be seconded by my colleague, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  as follows: 
That all words after 'House' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'views with concern the fact that Medibank will provide a lesser health service at a greater cost and believes that reforms should be enacted immediately to overcome its weaknesses'. 
Indeed, if the honourable member for Prospect said anything in relation to his motion he spoke against it, because he spoke with his great knowledge and experience of health care about the Kaiser Permanente scheme operating in California. I know that he has studied the scheme, as I and my colleague the honourable member for 
Murray have studied it. We are impressed by it. The honourable member for Prospect said: 'I certainly support it as an alternative'. I ask: As an alternative to what? Does he mean as an alternative to Medibank? He did not make that clear. 
I remind him that to experiment with a health maintenance organisation of the type of the Kaiser Permanente scheme is already part of the Opposition's health policy. We would not want to rush in and impact the health maintenance organisations- HMOs, as they are called- all over the country. In answer to my interjection the honourable member for Prospect seemed to have the same reservations about it as I have. In their desire to save money would doctors underuse the services? If they were in doubt about a patient who had a broken arm or an ulcer would they say: 'I am pretty sure that the patient is cured. There is really no need for him to have another X-ray, because that will save some costs for the scheme and will mean a bigger dividend for the doctors and patients at the end of the year'. That is something that I cannot answer. I spent a couple of very exacting days at Kaiser Permanente and I was given every sort of convenience and help, but I still could not get the answer to that question. 
Having said that, I wish to speak to the motion moved by the honourable member for Prospect, but more particularly to my amendment. Of course I would concede that Medibank has some advantages over the scheme which operated in this country when the Labor Party gained office. I have conceded that merely by virtue of the health policy I announced on behalf of the joint Opposition in April 1974 when I said there were weaknesses in the existing health scheme. There was not universality of cover. Pensioners were regarded as second-class citizens. Although there was a subsidised health benefits scheme very few people understood it and even fewer people availed themselves of it. These were weaknesses and of course Medibank does offer universal health insurance. It does provide cover without cost to those who cannot afford their own health insurance. There are included in Medibank paramedical services which were not covered by previous systems. The processing of claims under Medibank is certainly simplified- well, it appears to be simplified. There are other peripheral advantages in Medibank and one would be foolish to say otherwise. 
Just because Medibank is an improvement on the old health scheme does not mean to say that we accept it. In fact, as my amendment to the motion says, we believe it will provide a lesser health service at greater cost. Claims are at present being received at a much higher rate than had been predicted. I know that the cost of a health scheme is not the be-all and end-all of it. The basic thing the Government should be concerned with is whether it provides a health service to the sick and the injured people of Australia. That is the first thing, so forgive me for mentioning costs at this stage. We have consistently prodded the Government on the question of costs because there are things that a government should provide for people who are disadvantaged other than health care. The whole area of social security involves people who through no fault of their own find themselves in deprived conditions- socially, emotionally and financially. When there is some sort of all-consuming monster, like we believe Medibank will be, which will take that much of the welfare cake it may well pre-empt a government from doing anything for other people in the community who are poor, sick or injured. 
I acknowledge that interjection. While it is true it is completely irrelevant to the point I am making and I will now explain that. The Government estimated that there would be 90 000 claims a day under Medibank. We said there would be overuse and abuse. Under the expert cross-examination of my friend and colleague  Senator Baume  during a Senate Estimates Committee hearing on 7 October,  Mr Taylor,  the Senior Assistant General Manager of Medibank acknowledged that at the present time claims under Medibank had plateaued at 160 000 a day. The Government estimated 90 000 a day but present claims are plateauing - 
-The Government estimated 90 000 claims a day. The Senior Assistant General Manager of Medibank says that 160 000 claims a day are being received. I acknowledge the interjection of the honourable member for Prospect that it has only partial validity in respect to the point that I am making that the Government has grossly underestimated the number of claims that would come in each day under Medibank. 
I thank the honourable member for Murray for the interjection. That also has been brought out in the examination of officers during a Senate Estimates Committee hearing. In fact, in the few months that Medibank has been in operation no fewer than 500 additional temporary employees have had to be engaged to cope with the additional claims. I think this is palpable evidence of gross under-estimation. It has already resulted in the scheme being extremely expensive. This is apparent within 2 months of its introduction at a time when the majority of the States including the most populous of the States have not entered into the hospital section of Medibank. As far as the processing of claims is concerned, again I speak to words in the motion moved by the honourable member for Prospect which read: 'That this House notes with satisfaction higher standards of health insurance cover-'. Good heavens, this Government promised that claims would be processed within 5 days. I have with me a sheaf of letters saying that some people have been waiting up to 5 weeks for their claims to be processed. 
-I said I have a sheaf of letters. I hasten to say that it would be dishonest of me if I left it at that. I am going to say- without any prompting by interjection- that the national average- I stand to be corrected- has now levelled out at 11 to 16 days for the processing of claims, which is more than double what the Minister promised. I do not wish to reduce this debate to a facetious level but like the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  I too have Medibank fatigue after having been at this now for 2 years. I have a sheaf of letters which are examples of why Medibank cannot be stated as providing a higher standard of health insurance cover. An example I will cite might provide some comic relief to the debate but it is allegedly true. I will quote from the  Daily Telegraph  of 1 October. 
This is an article by a journalist named Ann Newling. This lady has not got any reputation for telling lies. The article reads: 
A Medibank claims computer has gone bust because it refused to accept that a woman has two separate breasts. 
A Mt Druitt pharmacist learned this yesterday when he rang Medibank to enquire about his refund claim for breast surgery to his wife. 
He was told the computer had been programmed to recognise surgery on only one breast instead of the normal two. 
A Medibank officer told him the computer would be  reprogrammed  to accept two breasts. 'It's all a bit unreal,' the husband said. 'It's no joke for my wife to be told she should only have one breast' 
That is a facetious note that I inject into the debate. I have a sheaf of files indicating that what the honourable member for. Prospect alleges about Medibank, that it provides a higher standard, is just simply not true. Even weeks after the introduction of Medibank the Government said that because of escalating costs it could not post back receipts. If people wanted a receipt they had to enclose a stamped addressed envelope with their claim. What concerns me about the cost is the comparison between the Australian Medibank scheme and Medicare in Canada. It would be dishonest or inaccurate to make a naked comparison between the Australian Medibank scheme and the British health scheme because they are not similar. I suggest with great respect that the Australian Medibank scheme is largely comparable with the Canadian Medicare scheme. There are some differences. 
We do not know what we are doing yet. This is another thing I will refer to in a second. This year the Canadian Medicare scheme cost $7,000m for 22 million Canadians.  Mr Hayden  asks us to believe that for 1 3 million Australians he can operate Medibank for $1.4 billion. I think anyone who looks at those figures would realise the absurdity of that statement and they would know that Medibank will not cost $ 1.4 billion. Medibank will be the monster that I described it as earlier. 
I acknowledge there are small differences. Thirdly, there is no inbuilt mechanism in Medibank which can curb overuse of the scheme by the patient or by the doctor. The honourable member for Prospect, in his extremely forthright speech, answered an interjection by my colleague the honourable member for Murray as to how this overuse could be curbed under Medibank. Frankly, the honourable member for Prospect did not have an answer. We are not suggesting that doctors- to use the example cited by the honourable member- will operate on people just because they have a loss at the races. What we are saying is that if there is no inbuilt moiety- and the extent of bulk billing suggests to us that there is no inbuilt moietythere will be overuse if not abuse. The indications at the moment are that pathology, radiology and those sorts of things will be overused for the reason that I gave earlier. 
I am sorry, I cannot answer any more interjections. My time is almost up in this debate. I refer again to the motion which states that we note with satisfaction the higher standard of health insurance cover. No agreement has been reached with the surgeons by two of the most populous States about whom the surgeons will treat. I do not want to canvass the surgeons' case or the governments' case. All I am saying is that it is rather absurd for us to have this kind of motion proposed by a member of the Australian Labor Party when at any moment in New South Wales and Victoria there may be virtually no service by surgeons to sick people because of a breakdown in the negotiations. I would have thought that one of the most fundamental things for an efficient health service is to have surgeons prepared to accept elective surgery in the public hospitals of Australia. At present we do not have this. It is for these and many other reasons which time does not give me an opportunity to put that on behalf of the Opposition I reject this motion and have moved the amendment which states: 
That all words after 'House' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'views with concern the fact that Medibank will provide a lesser health service at a greater cost and believes that reforms should be enacted immediately to overcome its weaknesses'. 
-The Opposition agrees with these Bills. It will give them expedition in this House. In fact  Hansard  will have recorded that when the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  representing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon),  introduced them into this House last week, on behalf of the Opposition I sought leave to move a motion that the debate be adjourned until a later hour that day so that the Bills could be given expedition in this House and passed to the Senate because we suspect that the Government will be trying to level the charge at the Opposition that we prevented pensioners from receiving their increases because of our delaying tactics. The  Hansard  of the House of Representatives would give the lie to that allegation. The following day in the Senate my friend and colleague,  Senator Baume,  asked a similar question of the Minister for Social Security. The Senate  Hansard  will again record that the Opposition said that it will give these Bills expedition. The two or three speakers on the Opposition side will be speaking relatively briefly to confirm that that is so. 
Just for the sake of the record I should like to explain what these Bills do. They are part of the Budget and they give effect to the increases in benefits and pensions, both social services and repatriation. The standard pension is increased from $36 to $38.75, an increase of $2.75. The married rate is increased from $30 a week to $32.25 a week, an increase of $2.25. Exceptions are made- this is something I will refer to in a moment- for unemployment and sickness benefits for unmarried people under the age of 18 years. They remain unchanged at $36. There is an increase in the additional payment for children of pensioners, supporting mothers and unemployment and sickness benefit recipients from $7 a week to $7.50 a week, an increase of 50c. The Social Services Bill also extends a double orphan's pension to children with one parent dead and the other in a prison or mental home. This is a commendable amendment to the Act. 
The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill proposes to increase repatriation pensions. The special or totally and permanently incapacitated rate is to increase from $68.10 to $74.10; the intermediate rate is to increase from $48.05 to $5 1.05 a week; the war and defence widows pension is to increase from $36 a week to $38.75 a week; and service pensions are to increase from $36 and $30 a week respectively for single and married persons to $38.75 and $32.25 a week, which of course is the same as the age pension. There is no increase in the general 100 per cent rate, which remains at $28 per week. They are purely changes in rates. There is no change in the basis of the application or elegibility for pensions. 
This debate gives me the opportunity of referring to the social services policy of the Opposition which I had the honour to release last Monday and which I am delighted to observe that six out of the seven editorials of newspapers throughout the country commended in some way or another because of its innovations. It is appropriate to refer to one of the things it does not do. One feature of the Opposition policy is that, generally speaking, we will remove the means test concept and introduce in its place an income test concept. I shall not spell out, because one could write an essay on it, the abuses that could become apparent with an income test, but basically we see no justice or equity in applying a means test, for example, to a relatively small farmer who is suffering very bad times. The book value of his property might well run into several hundred thousand dollars and, because of the state of the primary industry and agriculture in this country, he might literally be on the breadline, but a means test disqualifies him from receiving benefits, generally speaking. Those honourable members who serve rural electorates will know that there are thousands of such people who are literally on the breadline. Professor Henderson in his report refers to them and to rural poverty. It is a fact that these people with children literally have not got the money to buy meals and clothing for their children; yet they cannot obtain benefits, whereas the person who works for them on their property as a labourer can, if things go bad, simply go to the social security office and qualify for some benefit. 
I know that anybody who thinks about substitution of an income test for a means test could point immediately to a great number of ways in which people could go through some mechanism to obtain falsely benefits from the Commonwealth. When the Opposition is in office we will look to methods of preventing that as far as possible. I do not believe any system can be devised to stop that completely. The classic case that has been happening for years involves retired people who because of their assets, usually cash in the bank, cannot qualify for the pension or can qualify for only a small part of the pension. They deliberately seek to dispose of those cash assets by taking a trip around the world or investing in a more expensive home or disposing of the cash in some way they normally would not normally use just to divest themselves of assets so as to qualify for the pension. I do not think we will ever get to the stage when we will be able to eliminate all areas in which people will be able wrongfully to take revenue from the welfare system. 
There are a couple of points about the Bill which I will just note. The Bill reverses the principle established by the Labor Party by reintroducing a third lower level of benefit for unmarried juniors. I will not canvass that matter at this time to any extent but the Minister did not advance any rationale to support the .implied view that the needs of an unemployed 17-year old are always necessarily less than those of an unemployed 18-year old. But this. Bill reintroduces or restores that differential, in 1973 the Labor Government abolished the junior rate of unemployment sickness benefit, leaving only the married or single rate. 
I wish to quote  Mr Hayden-I  will be quoting him a couple of times- to indicate the tragedy of this Labor Party, which is dedicated to helping people in trouble, having to backtrack because of mismanagement and ineptitude. Its intentions were good; its ideals were good. It wanted to help the person in trouble but it failed miserably and is backtracking in so many areas. In 1973  Mr Hayden  said: 
In setting common benefit rates for all pensions and for unemployment and sickness benefits we have largely established the principle that common needs deserve common rates of benefit. 
That principle has now been abrogated by necessity, I suppose because there is no money. I know that the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  has spoken many times about the pensioner who is paying rent. I agree with her. I think everybody who is interested in welfare would agree that those pensioners who have essentially no other income than the pension and who pay rent are the people for whom we should feel most compassion and to whom we should give most help. Because of inflation and other reasons and because there is no direct help in this Bill those people suffer even more. 
The Bill fails to propose increases in any other benefits which form a significant part of the incomes of pensioners who are totally or nearly totally dependent on their pensions as their sole income. For example, in October 1972 at the time of the last Liberal-National Country Party pension increase supplementary assistance of $4 a week was introduced. That is the assistance that is paid to those people who are almost entirely dependent on their pensions and pay rent. We gave then an extra $4 a week. At that stage that equalled 20 per cent of the standard pension. The rate proposed in this Bill that we are now debating will set supplementary assistance at $5 a week, which is less than 1 3 per cent of the standard rate of pension. That is unfortunate. It is certainly not done by design by the Labor Party. 
I think I have been fair in saying that all Labor supporters would agree that this class of pensioner desperately needs some assistance. But because of the mismanagement and ineptitude of the Government that person will suffer to that extent. If the October 1972 parity were to be maintained today this Bill would increase supplementary assistance from $5 a week to $7.75 a week. This sort of thing is expensive- I have done the costing of it- and I know that has precluded the Labor Party from doing this. This is the whole sad story of the welfare picture of the Labor Party. Its intentions are good, but because of mismanagement it has finished up hurting deeply those people who should be helped the most, in other words, the poorest in the community. The Labor Party seems somehow to have a genius for ripping off taxes and for making better the lot of the middle class and the people who are not in desperate straits at the expense of those who are very poor. This is a classic example of that. 
The third issue is that at a time when inflation is running at 15 per cent to 20 per cent it is clear that in current terms the standard pension has not yet reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and will decline further before the next promised increases in pensions are enacted in 1976. That is an unchallengeable fact. I think the second reading speech of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and Minister assisting the Minister for Social Security claims that the standard pension has reached 25.2 per cent of average weekly male earnings, but the Minister did not say that that is based upon figures for the June 1975 quarter. Although those figures are the latest available- I will concede that- they are already  V-h  months out of date and will move to being 10 months out of date between the time the proposed increases become operative next month- hopefully it will be 1 November nextand the next scheduled increases in the autumn of 1976. The point I am making is that the Government promised 25 per cent of average male weekly earnings. That is commendable and terrific. The pensioners said: 'What the Labor Party is doing for us is wonderful'. Then the Labor Party produced a set of figures to show that the rate is 25.2 per cent, but that was 4 months ago. 
-With great respect, that is a different point to which I will come in a moment. The point I am making now- still relying on the argument of average weekly earnings- is that when pensions are changed next in 1976 the rate that will be struck by these amendments will then be 10 months out of date. So it is hardly honest for the Government to say: 'We have reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings'. 
The fourth point I want to make is that the Bill continues a reversal of Labor policies. I shall quote a few. Some of them are pathetic to look back on. In his 1972 now famous- or infamouspolicy speech the Prime Minister said: 
The basic pension rate will no longer be tied to the financial and political consideratons of annual Budgets. All pensions will be immediately raised by $1.30 and thereafter, every Spring and every Autumn, the basic pension rate will be raised by $1.50 until it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. 
Then there is a typical sentence from the Prime Minister. I wish I was capable, as some of my colleagues are, of imitating that pathetic voice he adopts when he wants to make a ponderous point. But I cannot do so. I will quote him nakedly. He said: 
It will never be allowed to fall below that level. 
I compare that statement with the statement made by the honourable Frank Stewart last week when he introduced this Bill only 3 years after the Prime Minister made that promise. The Minister said: ... in the present climate of high inflation and unemployment the Government believes that for the immediate future all of us should show restraint . . . 
Unhappily ' all of us ' includes those pensioners to whom that heady promise was made in 1972.  Mr Stewart  continued: 
We have decided to increase pensions this year by rises in the consumer price index as a temporary measure to ease the pressures of public spending on the economy. 
I will not canvass that that is wrong because precisely that statement- that pensions should be tied to the consumer price index- is in the Opposition 's social security policy. But we have never promised 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Labor Party did so promise and it has broken that categorical promise in less than 3 years.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
It will never be allowed to fall below that level. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it has never reached that level and now the Government has changed the whole basis and has abrogated its promise. It was not because of bad intentions. It is just mismanagement and ineptitude which has forced it into that situation. In his second reading speech on the Social Services Bill 1973  Mr Hayden  said: ... the former Government consistently compared increases in the rates of pensions with upward movements in the consumer price index. 
In his typical habit of bucketing the Opposition he continued: 
However, as I have stressed on so many occasions, the relevant comparison to make is to relate pension increases to average weekly earnings; average weekly earnings themselves give a fairly good indication of the average standard of prosperity in the community. 
I ask the House to compare that statement with the statement by  Mr Hayden  in his Budget Speech of 2 years later. He said: 
The standard rate of social service pensions and benefits will be increased in the Spring of 1975 by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index between the December quarter 1974 and the June quarter 1975; and again in the Autumn of 1976 by the increase in the Consumer Price Index between the June and December quarters of 1 975. 
That, to a reading audience of  Hansard  and to people listening in the chamber- we are not on the air today- is probably highly technical. I will make sure that copies of this speech get around to the pensioner organisations. I understand that statement means that by shifting the basis of the index from average weekly earnings to the consumer price index the Government saves something like $80m a year. I would like that figure challenged by the Minister and by his departmental advisers if it is incorrect. Maybe because of the current movements the figure might be less but millions of dollars a year are involved. 
No one will criticise the Government for saving money. Opposition policy is to cut back spending in the public sector. But we would not save money at the expense of pensioners, which is precisely, when it is spelt out in its naked and unadorned form, what this Government has done. This Government has ripped off $80m from pension increases so as to cut back in the public sector. 
-It is $80m. The fifth thing I want to mention about unemployment and sickness benefits relates to what the honourable Bill Hayden said in regard to the pension increase in February 1973. 1 think this is a very significant and very sad statement to record for the purpose of history for again the honourable member was bucketing the Opposition. He loves to bucket people. I ask honourable members to remember that the words I am about to quote were used when the percentage of unemployed was relatively low. I should like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table prepared by the Statistical Service of the Parliamentary Library showing the unemployed from December 1972 to September 1975. With the Minister's courtesy I ask for leave to have the table incorporated  in Hansard. 
-I propose to the House for its  Speaker, Mr Billy  Mackie Snedden, the right honourable member for Bruce, and move: 
That the right honourable member for Bruce do take the Chair of this House as Speaker. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented by my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  During his address he made several complimentary remarks about me, for which I thank him, but I would ask him not to do it too often. He also said in the course of his remarks that he has heard a rumour that I had washed my hands of any interest in social welfare. That is totally untrue, I am pleased to inform him, and I hope he is as pleased to hear that news as I am to give it. There is only one reason why I am not speaking in this discussion and that is that I was not asked. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs about a report in last Friday's Age of hideous tortures of a British doctor, Sheila Cassidy, by the Chilean regime. The article stated that the United Nations committee on .human rights had concluded in its final report that torture of the utmost brutality had become routine under the Pinochet regime. I ask the Minister: Has the report been studied by his Department or himself? If the report does verify those allegations will he give the House an assurance that Australia will condemn and denounce such practices in the loudest and clearest terms? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I, together with other honourable members, would like to congratulate you on your election to this position again. I ask you to convey to the  Speaker  the fact that I am very pleased that I had the honour of nominating him for the position of  Speaker  and to say- I am sure this feeling is shared by all honourable members- that I believe he is doing an astoundingly good job, as you are. 
In one of my rare frivolous moods the other day I decided to write out a question to ask the  Speaker,  but I did not get round to it. Some of my colleagues back here on the back bench have been sorry that I did not. The question dealt with the incredibly small space we have between the front edges of our seats and the back edges of our desks. We should like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to know that when we stand to address you we have to commit our bodies to the most extraordinary and impossible positions. If we wish to address you with a straight back we have to bend our knees. If we wish to address you with straight knees we have to bend our backs. To do this we must assume a posture in which none of us would like to be photographed. We have asked  Mr Speaker  privately whether he will get the genius who invented this exquisite form of torture to do something about it for all of us back here and he has very kindly agreed to do that. 
I should like to commend the Government for the Governor-General's Speech and its contents. Like everybody on this side of the House I am deeply conscious of the fantastic challenge ahead of the Government. I join with other back benchers in wishing the Government well in its tasks. I should like to say a few words about this Parliament before I proceed. At times the atmosphere in this chamber is eerie. I am not making u cheap political point now, but there are 2 members of the Opposition in the chamber. This is typical of the standard of debate and the atmosphere that is here. I am saddened by the fact that now there is virtually no Opposition in this chamber. That is bad for democracy and it is bad for this institution. 
I miss the cut and thrust of debate that normally comes from an Opposition bench. I miss the vigorous and virile interjections that keep honourable members who speak on their toes. More particularly, I am sick to death of the obsession which the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr E.  G. Whitlam) has- and unhappily other members of the Opposition have- about the Governor-General and past history. This Government has so many decisions to make and many big problems to tackle, and obviously it will not be right all the time. I would have thought that it is the incumbent duty of every member of the Parliament to be critical of the real issues and not to be a modern day Don Quixote chasing and spearing windmills. In fact I would say with all the kindness I have to the Leader of the Opposition and to other members of the Opposition that fanaticism is a very bad thing. In fact George Santayana once defined u fanatic as a person who redoubles his efforts long after he has forgotten his aim. One wonders sometimes whether that is not precisely the position into which the members of the Opposition have got themselves. 
While I commend the Government for what is in the Governor-General's Speech and wish it well and will support the main thrust of the Speech I should like to take it on myself, as I hope other members of the back bench will, if they feel the need, to be critical in a constructive way if I feel inclined so to do. I say that I will certainly do that. I notice that the Press has been asked to assume the role which the Opposition has vacated. I do not see why the Press should have a monopoly on that role. Since this Parliament has been sitting it has been the subject of charge and countercharge and of politicking which I have not seen since I have been in this Parliament. Sometimes sitting out here in the never-never I get a little despairing at what we are doing about the enormous problems of the nation. 
I will speak on 2 main areas. One is a humanitarian issue concerning the amounts we give to international disaster assistance, and I should like to inject some new thoughts concerning the crisis in Timor. I refer to the last page of the Governor-General 's Speech where he said: 
We have a unique opportunity to establish in Australia a truly liberal and humane society - 
I looked at those words and as I read them just by coincidence on my table there was a list of Australian aid contributions to disaster areas over the past several years. I could not help thinking how hollow those words rang when I looked at our latest donation to a stricken people, namely, the Guatemalan people. We gave them, in that time of disaster, $50,000. 
Before I speak on that matter, let me say on a philosophical note that I believe that there is a constant dilemma for members of this Parliament, no matter what political persuasion they have. Every decision we have to make concerning how we are to vote, how we are to speak and what we are to support or not to support involves a dilemma as to whether our actions and votes should be directed towards assisting Australian.  per se  or towards assisting the human race. As I have sat here over the years, I have found many times that there is a dilemma because on so many occasions when we vote to assist Australians in some area we do it to the detriment of other people of the human race. Undoubtedly, we must give Australians the priority because that is why we are elected; that is why we are here and it is our prime responsibility. I illustrate my point simply by referring to tariffs. Every time we vote for a high tariff to protect imports from some underdeveloped country- one can think of dozens of commodities such as textiles, sandshoes, tennis racquets, cricket bats, etc.- we are in fact depriving an Asian or several thousand Asians of a job. Every time we give massive increases in pensions and benefits under Medibank and other social welfare programswhich it is our bounden duty to do- we are in fact depriving ourselves of the capacity to help underdeveloped nations. Every currency movement which we vote for or support, every trade agreement which we vote for or support affects other human beings in other parts of the world who are not as fortunate as we are. 
Our foreign affairs policy is determined essentially on a basis of self-interest. Sometimes it is directed so that we will not offend our neighbours, rather than looking at other people's humanitarian interests. Of course, self-interest as a basic motivation for politicians can be defended because it is the basic reason for man forming himself into a society in the Stone Age. He did so to protect his own society from predators. I suggest that there is a danger that self-interest or even the mention of self-interest sometimes can completely exclude all rational and logical consideration of humanitarian factors. For example, the economy at the present time is in a chaoticcondition. Inflation, unemployment and a huge deficit are the major problems we face. These arc matters of self-interest to which we must direct our attention and which we must solve. 
These matters can be used as a rationale for the pathetic donation of $50,000 which we recently gave to Guatemala, when we know that more than 18 000 people were killed, 62 000 people were injured and one million people were rendered homeless. While donations of this sort add marginally to the deficit, they have no inflationary effects whatsoever; nor do they worsen the local employment situation. I understand that the view of the Department of Foreign Affairs is that Guatemala is not in our sphere of interest and therefore a small amount of aid can be justified in the absence of self-interest. But this leads to a very curious view if it is thought through to a logical conclusion. What we say, if we accept the Department of Foreign Affairs view, is that a maimed child is of less concern to Australians if he or she is, by virtue of a gynaecological accident, conceived in Guatemala than is a child who is maimed in an earthquake and who was born in Indonesia or Malaysia which, according to the Department of Foreign Affairs, happen to be in our sphere of interest. I am not being party political about this, in criticising this Government for a $50,000 donation, because the history of such donations by the Australian Labor Party is equally as pathetic as ours. Wc should not be blaming the Cabinets which put these donations down or the Department of Foreign Affairs. If we have any conscience about this matter, we should be blaming ourselves us members of Parliament. 
We have had from many Australians from time to time, and from me as much as anybody, curious expressions of self-righteousness and outrage in protest against an odd bit of bad language or sex when it appears on television and allegations that their good and decent standards or morality are being assailed but at the same time they allow such a pathetic gesture to a stricken people pass by with almost an air of gay nonchalance. They and we- the Parliamentgave $50,000 to Guatemala which has experienced one of the great tragedies of the decade. The Australian Labor Government gave $25,000 to Nicaragua where 10 000 human beings were killed or injured in an earthquake. We gave $23,000 to the Ethiopian nation when it was being devastated by famine. We gave $25,000 initially to Pakistan after 5000 people died and incredible human suffering occurred as a result of an earthquake. These gestures of compassion by this Parliament line up very strangely against the amount of $20m which Australians spent last Saturday on race horses. In the light of this the words of the Governor-General that we live in a liberal- and I note that the word 'liberal' is spelt with a small '1'- and humane society ring rather hollowly. 
Another danger of self-interest is that the mere mention can exclude any other factors. We could allow ourselves to be led into a false argument in respect of Timor. If one wanted to put forward a hypothetical situation that it is to the advantage of" Australians and future Australians that Timor should be governed by a stable independent nation which is anti-communist and that would be good for Australians such an argument could be sustained. But the point I am making is that sometimes even the mention of self-interest leads us into conclusions which might well be false. One could also argue that President Suharto in his present situation might believe that an independent East Timor could lead to future dangers and future Russian or Chinese bases. 
The hideous situation in which we find ourselves is that if we are motivated and guided by self-interest we will be tempted to deny freedom to 650 000 human beings who live in East Timor. We would do this despite the fact that 50 000 of the people of this country died gallantly and bravely fighting for Australia against the Japanese invasion in the last war. This is the dilemma in which we find ourselves. It is a dilemma at which we should look. Perhaps this matter of self-interest can best be summed up in a cable from  Mr Richard  Woolcott, the Australian Ambassador in Jakarta, which was leaked to the Press. An article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  states: 

 Mr Woolcott says . . . that Australia must accept Indonesia's incorporation of the colony and not take issue with Jakarta on issues of principle. 
He says that Australia must now curb hostile attitudes towards Indonesia in order to preserve long-term relationships. 
Then comes the crunch question: 'It is a choice between what might be described us Wilsonian idealism and Kissingerian realism ', he says. 'The former is more proper and principled but the longerterm national interests may be served by the latter-wc do not think Australia can have it both ways. ' 
There is, of course, truth in that. I do not blame  Mr Woolcott  for giving that advice to the Government although I certainly question his judgment. I certainly question his judgment even more when one reads further into the cable. The newspaper article quotes this section of the cable in the following terms: 'Indonesia still wants to know whether, privately, we still sympathise with their objective (the incorporation of Timor), even if we cannot condone the means they have adopted of pursuing it', . . . 
This means simply that our Ambassador is recommending to the Government that we secretly approve Indonesia's invasion of Timor and publicly condemn it, but not too loudly. I question the morality of the  Age  newspaper in publishing the cable, but on balance I believe that the newspaper had a public duty to do so. I hold the leaker of such a cable in absolute contempt. I have commended publicly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  for rebuking the contents of this cable. I want to state that I believe that the stance taken by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this matter of Timor has been absolutely impeccable. I wish I could say the same for the Leader of the Opposition because I think the truth is yet to come out about the infamous conversations he had with  President  Suharto and  Mr Malik  in Bali and north Queensland last year. The secrets discussed in those conversations have yet to come out. 
I would like to know what  Mr Woolcott  means when he says that Indonesia still wants to know whether Australia is going to assume that posture. Strangely, none of the members of the Press have picked this up. Is  Mr Woolcott  saying that the Leader of the Opposition made a deal with the Indonesians and the Indonesians now want to know whether Australia will stick to that deal? My reading of those words in English would certainly mean that. I hope that we can make u judgment on that. The other reason why I question the judgment of  Mr Woolcott  is that in his cables he suggests that the war will be over soon and that Indonesia will occupy East Timor. I question that. I hope that we on this side of the House, particularly, do not get caught up in the kind of flap that came out of the Department of Foreign Affairs during the Vietnam war. I just hope that we realise that Fretilin has, according to my knowledge, a 12 months supply of arms at its disposal and that it is led and motivated in some areas by pro-communist leaders- leaders who have been trained in Peking and have been motivated by the thrust of communism. 
I hope that whenever a debate on Timor is raised in this House by politicians, particularly on this side of the chamber, we do not immediately stamp the Fretilin movement as being entirely a communist movement and one that has got to be destroyed. I think that if we do that we will lose all sense of objectivity and perhaps fall into the same trap that we fell into when the Vietnam war was going on. My information is that although there is some communist infiltration into Fretilin it is, basically, a strong nationalistic movement comprising people who are determined to gain their independence in an ordinary democratic way. 
I would like to think that in the future when we look at matters of self-interest, we do not simply say that if East Timor becomes independent it may do a deal with the Russians or with the Chinese and therefore we must support the Indonesians in their invasion with 12 000 troops. Let us not, as we did on some occasions during the Vietnam conflict when we shouted out slogans about domino theories and so on, be led by cliches espoused by members of either the extreme Left or the extreme Right. Let us all, as responsible members of Parliament, do our homework on this issue- the problems facing this country which is only one-and-a-half flying hours away from Australia. Let us have a debate on this question. Unhappily, most of the debate on this matter will take place between honourable members on this side of the House, some of whom have views opposed to mine. But I say in the name of Australia: If we are going to have debate between what is called the right wing and the left wing of the Liberals on this side of the House, let us have that debate without acrimony. Let us debate the matter frankly so that in the absence of an Opposition, we, as members of this Parliament can produce a reasonable policy. 
I am pleased to support these Bills and to oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on behalf of the Opposition. Might I say at the outset, without attempting to make a cheap political point, that I was very disappointed with the speech made by the honourable gentleman, who led for the Opposition and who is a former Minister for Social Security and a former Treasurer. Even he seems to have been inflicted now by the bug with which all Opposition members seem to have been inflicted of living in the past. We had from him a dissertation of the Australian Labor Party's advanced policies over the last 3 years, how the Labor Government was better than we were in the previous 23 years in which we were in office and how the Labor Government was an humanitarian government and we are not. We are dealing here with something involving well over one million human beings. I doubt the wisdom or the value of talking about the past and of putting one Party's policies up against those of another. 
I was particularly disappointed with the type of amendment that the Opposition has moved. It reads:  . . . while not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House deplores the failure of the Government to index dependants allowances to meet increases in the cost of living. 
The honourable member for Oxley did not even speak to that amendment during the course of his speech. But the fact of the matter is that this legislation does precisely what the Labor Party would have done if it had won the last election. In fact, it implements Labor Party policy. During the election campaign the Labor Party said that it would increase pensions every six months in accordance with movements in the consumer price index and that it would make the month of the first increase November. As my friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  interjected, although the honourable member for Oxley declined to take up the interjection, 6 months from November 1975 is in fact May 1976. So this legislation implements the Labor Party's policy. I have made that point to show the shallowness of this amendment. I should have thought that the honourable member for Oxley would have been better engaged if he had made some constructive criticisms of the legislation and of the future of the social welfare policies because that is what we are dealing with and that is why we are here. We are here to try to assist the Government or to criticise the Government about improvements in the social welfare policy and not to live in the past. 
I will concede, as the honourable member for Oxley seemed to have some pleasure in pointing out, that the Labor Party did do some good things in the area of social welfare when it was in office. I admired my new friend the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  when he also conceded that in his maiden speech the other night. The Labor Government was progressive and there were some exciting measures introduced by it. The tragedy is that, good though those measures were, the Labor Government fouled up almost every one of them through bad administration. Now that we are back in Government I am hopeful that we will not discard some of the progressive policies that ' were instituted by the Labor Government simply because they were disastrously administered. I think that we will be selective in the way in which we proceed with our policies. 
The honourable member for Oxley kept saying how great the Labor Government's record was in its last year in office. One of the curious things about his speech was that he went on to say that the Labor Government had changed its indexation of pensions to the consumer price index rather than the average weekly earning because the average weekly earnings had increased by only 12 per cent in 1975 whereas the CPI had increased by 14 per cent, as if in fact it were an achievement that under the Labor Party's administration the cost of living or the rate of inflation in fact increased last year by faster than the average weekly earnings. I find it very curious that a former Treasurer should be proud of that fact. 
Having said that, I say that 1 support these Bills because I believe that they implement at least partially the policy that I had the privilege of announcing on behalf of the Liberal and National Country Parties during the election campaign. The cost of living index increased in December by 6.4 per cent. That is the figure by which we are increasing the pensions. I am disappointed, and I am not hiding my disappointment, that we have not implemented the policy completely by making those increases in pensions instant and automatic, as was our promise. The whole thrust and philosophy of the LiberalCountry Party policy during the election campaign was to avoid debates like we are having tonight. I am rather pleased in a way that this debate is not being broadcast because tonight pensioners are again to be treated like a political football. There is going to be cut and thrust from that side of the House to this side of the House. If I were a pensioner listening to such a broadcast tonight it would not please me to know that my security or my future was being regarded as a political football by some politicians in this chamber in Canberra. The whole philosophy of the Liberal-Country Party policy was that we would introduce legislation early in this session to take pensions out of the round of political football by making pension increases instant and automatic. Therefore I say that I am disappointed with that. 
I do not think that we can regard all pensioners as having the same resilience and the same absence of fear of the future as do those people of our own age and in our own situation. They fear for the future. They fear from quarter to quarter. They fear for inflation. To take that fear out of them I think would have been to make a formidable contribution. But I support this legislation because an undertaking has been given by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  in his second reading speech that this particular part of Liberal-Country Party policy has been delayed because the whole question of income security has been referred to an income security review committee headed, as I understand it, by the Prime Minister's Department. I have been further encouraged by noises that have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that some of the recommendations of that committee, which I regard as being quite vital to the whole structure of social security in this country, will be implemented in the forthcoming Budget. But I would say this, and I say it without it sounding a threat, as rancour or whatever, that if pensions are not instantly and automatically tied to an index by November the emotion I will be expressing in this place will be more than disappointment because it is a promise on which we fought the election campaign. 
I shall read into the record very briefly something that I did with the full authority of the then Opposition and the then caretaker Cabinet as a member of that Cabinet. I read into the record an interview conducted of me on  A Current Affair  on 24 November. It is one of several interviews conducted of me at the time. I was asked the question: 
Will it increase by more than 50c a year as it did during the government time? 
I replied: 
Of course, because what our policy is and what I am personally committed to is to increase pensions automatically twice a year geared to a cost of living increase. This means that pensions will be taken out of the hands of politicians. No longer will pensions be able to be a political football kicked around. Pensioners will automatically get that increase twice a year without the legislation even having to come to Parliament. 
I do not like saying things lightly; I never have. I did not say that lightly. I regard that as an unequivocal undertaking by the Liberal and National Country parties. 
I was delighted to hear the Prime Minister today, if I understood him correctly, give an assurance in an answer to a question asked by a member of the Opposition that there would be no change in the components of the cost of living index or the consumer price index as far as pensioners were concerned. I have just spent 2 hours listening to some intellectual debate on why the components of the CPI might be changed if applied to wage indexation. I am certainly not going to canvass that proposition here. There are some compelling reasons why that might be looked at again. I simply point out that if government charges or indirect taxes are increased pensioners have to pay those increases. I believe it would be unthinkable to delete increases in those kinds of things- postage stamps, telephone charges, tram fares, and all those other indirect government charges- from a consumer price index which is going to add to the cost of living of pensioners. As I understand it, the Prime Minister gave that assurance today when answering a question asked by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen). 
Having said that, I can understand the Government's dilemma in not introducing into this legislation all those things which some of us on this side of the House, and indeed on the other side of the House, would have liked to see included in it. Running through the whole report of Professor Henderson, like the thread of Ariadne, was the fact that the greatest enemy of the poor, the greatest enemy of the pensioner, is inflation. Therefore I believe that if we really want to help pensioners the Government's No. 1 priority should be to do something about inflation. Therefore unpopular measures have got to be taken, and I think it will be a test of the resilience, the loyalty and the dedication of honourable members on this side of the House that they will have to stand by the Government in doing those things, even though they may be unpopular. We inherited a situation in which pensioners were being devastated by inflation. I am encouraged also, as I said before, by the appointment of the income security review committee. I would also like to read into the record just 4 points in the social welfare policy which was unanimously adopted by the Liberal and Country parties. We said that we would move towards, firstly: 
Consolidating all existing means-tested pensions and benefits into one base rate income-tested benefit and standardising means tests to provide a uniform income test. 
I believe that that is absolutely vital in this area because so much confusion must surround people who are now in trouble as to which form they have to fill in, whether they have been divorced, whether they have suddenly been widowed, whether they have become of age, or whether they have become an invalid. I understand that at last count an unfortunate person in those circumstances had to choose between something like 1 7 different forms. On top of that, a myriad of different means tests present more hurdles over which such people have to jump to qualify. Secondly, we would provide income supplements for special situations requiring additional income. That refers to people with children and people in other circumstances. I am disappointed that that matter of policy has not been included in this legislation. The third part of our social welfare policy is this: 
Providing emergency cash grants to cover urgent need through local offices of the Department of Social Security. 
I regard that as a very important election undertaking also. I do not think any member of this Parliament who has been here for a few years would not have experienced the situation- the younger members will certainly come across it soon- of someone in diabolically sad circumstances coming into one's office late on a Friday afternoon. We hear of a husband having just left a wife with 3 of 4 children. The wife does not have a cent in the bank and literally does not have $10 to pay for the groceries or the food for the weekend. There a dozens of people who find themselves in such circumstances needing emergency grants. To some extent those grants are now provided by State government welfare organisations. What is not provided by those organisations is made up by the voluntary organisations. For that reason we have put into our social welfare policy that we will remove from voluntary organisations the burden of providing emergency cash assistance, without infringing their ability to provide it. I am rather disappointed that that urgent reform and unequivocal promise which has been adopted by our parties has not been implemented at this time. As I understand it, the cost of implementing that reform would be very small- something between $3m and $4m. Maybe I will get more support from the newer members in this House in November, especially after they have had the experience of almost all the older members of having to lend a widow or deserted wife $20 on a Friday afternoon, so that she can buy the groceries for the family, until her pension cheque arrives some weeks later. 
In closing, I would like to mention again the National Employment and Training scheme. We are not debating the NEAT scheme this evening, but we are debating a Bill which deals with social services. I would ask the Government to reconsider one aspect of the NEAT scheme as it affects widows, deserted wives or supporting mothers. I say publicly, as I have said privately, that I regard the NEAT scheme, as administered by the Labor Party, as one of the great rip-offs of its 3 years in office. There were very many injustices in it. The people who should have been helped were not helped. 
Having said that, I am very conscious of one point affecting social services. Last year the widow or the deserted wife, for example, with 2 children, had an offer from the Federal Government, and that offer was this: We suggest that you do not accept social services or a pension for the rest of your life or for the next 10 years or 20 years; we will assist you under the NEAT scheme by giving you some assistance, which will be enough but not too much, to pay your rent, baby sitting fees or day care centre fees to enable you to undertake a 3-year course to become a kindergarten teacher or social worker or whatever. I can understand the turmoil that must have been in the mind of a woman when she was contemplating that offer. It would have meant interrupting her whole pattern of life- of going back to study, of being away from her children for many hours of the day. A deserted woman with 2 children, as in the example I gave, would have been receiving roughly $ 1 16 a week, which was barely enough. Had she accepted the offer that would have been cut back to something like $80 a week, which meant that she would be $36 a week worse off. The point that I make is in relation to not only the hardship caused to her but also the principle of the matter. As I see it she would be entering into a contract- not a legal one but a moral one. It was a sound proposition from the Government 's point of view because at the end of next year a women would be qualified- I am talking now only about those who passed- would have gone back into the work force, would have resumed a normal, vigorous life, contributing something to society, and would have been a better mother to her children. Even if one dismisses the humanitarian grounds on which I am speaking, surely on a hard, economic, cost benefit analysis the Government's case is unanswerable because that woman would have then gone off social welfare benefits and would have been earning wages and paying taxes. So instead of her drawing on the Consolidated Revenue she would be a contributor. I hope that even at this stage that matter which affects deserted wives, widows and supporting mothers in particular might still receive the attention of the Government. 
Knowing that I would not have time to read it, I gained the permission of the honourable member for Oxley before he left this evening to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter which I, and I think all members on this side of the House and I think in the Labor Party, received from the Association of Civilian Widows concerning 2 anomalies that affect them. One is the amount of assets they are allowed to have if they earn the maximum income of $20 a week. Such a woman is now allowed to have assets amounting to $419 if she has no dependent children. That amount has not been increased since 1954. 1 should have thought that a government like ours, which is concerned with the work ethic, would be concerned to get these women back to work and to encourage them to work rather than to penalise them. The cost involved is minimal. For the sake of the record, I seek leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I ask the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs a non-party-political question. I base my question on a conversation I had over the weekend with the father of one of the Australian journalists killed in Timor. I am told that he and other parents are being deeply distressed and hurt by the continued publicity appearing, and the cheap politicking taking place about this human tragedy. I ask the Minister to use whatever influence or persuasion he has with politicians of all parties, and also the media, through whatever ethics committee the media have, to limit public discussion and comment on this matter to occasions when the true national interest demand them. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I say at the outset, not speaking in my capacity as  chairman  of the Government Members Industrial Relations Committee but as the member for Hotham, that there is a great deal of what the honourable member for Hindmarsh just said with which I agree. I do not know nearly as much about the subject of industrial relations as he does because of his industrial experience. All I know is that I have saturated and satiated myself in this one question in the last 4 weeks. I have had countless trade unions making representations to me. I confess that I am in a state of utter confusion about some aspects. 
The only point I make is that this issue is not as simple as the honourable member for Hindmarsh said. It may be simple to him because of his great knowledge and experience in these areas, but I say with respect to him that he oversimplified a number of issues. I make a plea to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  If he brings in legislation I ask that it be laid on the table of this House so that interested parties can put views to the Government, so that the kind of view that the honourable member for Hindmarsh put, which is a respectable view, can be put and listened to by the Government, or preferably by some committee. As  chairman  of the Government Members Industrial Relations Committee, it gave me no pleasure to know that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has a distinct advantage over me because he was waving around in his hand a copy of a Cabinet submission. 
The honourable member need not make a cheap point. As a former Minister, he knows that a Cabinet submission is never given to back benchers. 
We live in a strange period of morality when that kind of Cabinet submission can be given to a man in the Press gallery and circulated to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and to the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Where it leaked from I do not know, but I have nothing but utter contempt for the kind of individual who leaks Cabinet submissions or any secret documents. This is a standard of morality that I wish to speak about in a moment or two when I speak generally about the behaviour of members of this place. 
I am constrained at the moment to comment on what the honourable member for Hindmarsh said, except to say that I believe that he spoke about one of the most important issues facing this Parliament at this time. I am constrained because, as  chairman  of a government members committee, I believe that the proper way is to go through the committee to the Minister, through the Party room, to form a view and then come into this House and state the view. But let me say that a great deal of what the honourable member for Hindmarsh said I personally have sympathy with. 
I was speaking about morality. I would like to speak about what I believe to be a deterioration in the standards of behaviour of members of this Parliament inside it and outside. Lately there seems to be an obsession with attacking the individual, with innuendo, with individual members of Parliament both living and dead. This institution is founded on a concept that one speaks fearlessly and vigorously against the opinions of an opponent but never against the personality or character of an opponent. When that is done it demeans the person who does it and it demeans the institution of Parliament itself. I do not want to appear to be adopting a holier than thou attitude, but in my 15 years in this Parliament I have seen a steady deterioration of these moral standards, particularly in the last few years. There are questions on the notice paper which I would be ashamed to put my name to. There are questions on the notice paper about the divorce of the Governor-General's wife and about who travelled with the GovernorGeneral on a certain aircraft. Then the scuttlebutt goes around the Press gallery and the corridors of this place saying: 'That is why I asked that question'. I think this sort of question just demeans the standards of this institution. We had an example of it outside the Parliament but by a member of this House that frankly made me sick when I read it. This member was demeaning a dead man. I think that is reaching the lowest depth to which a member of this place can sink. How can we expect to command respect from the people? This is the governing institution of the nation. How can we go to the people and ask for an increase in salaries, which is long overdue, if the people do not respect the individual members of this institution? 
I would be a hypocrite if I were standing here saying that the only person who has demeaned this place in the last few weeks has been the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam' with his attack on the late Sir Shane Paltridge, because in my view members on the Government side have not been guiltless. I am not proud of the actions of a colleague of mine who tabled in a place in this Parliament an unsigned, unsworn document which demeans another member of this place. I say that after due consideration. I am not proud that a Minister moved a resolution and called for a division or attended a division concerning an unsworn, unsigned, unverified statement which said the most shocking things about another member of this Parliament- a member of this Parliament whom incidentally I do not respect, but that is irrelevant to the point. If this voice in the wilderness is to be of any use at all, let me point out that this sort of precedent once established will allow any member of this House to have some villains concoct a piece of infamy or calumny about another member, have it typed up, not have it signed or verified, and then by sheer weight of numbers have it tabled in the House or incorporated in  Hansard.  That very act would allow the newspapers of this country to carry that sort of calumny on page one the next day. I speak about this sort of thing on this Appropriation Bill because this Appropriation Bill reminds us, with the expenditure involved, that we are the Government of the nation. If democracy is to survive in the way we want it to, one of the most important things for that survival is to command and sustain respect from the people of Australia. 
I want to speak about two other matters on this Bill. The first concerns the Australian Assistance Plan. Rumours are circulating and there has been speculation in the Press- whether it has been inspired I do not know- that the Australian Assistance Plan is to be axed, is to be chopped, is to be decimated. I want to read something into the record to give my strong, vigorous unequivocal views on this matter. When the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  introduced the Australian Assistance Plan during the term of office of the Labor Government, as shadow Minister for Social Security I had something to say about it. I said this with the full authority of the joint coalition Opposition at that time. I said: 
Here is one of the most important social documents laid down in this Parliament for 20 years. I should like to compliment the Commission - 
That was the Social Welfare Commission- for an outstanding document and I extend my appreciation to the Minister for embracing it and its philosophies. Indeed, one could almost be persuaded that a Liberal Minister wrote the document and embraced its philosophies. This is in fact liberalism at work. It is a document and a speech to which I personally would have been proud to attach my name. 
I went on to say: 
This sort of philosophy in the Australian Assistance Plan has been Liberal policy for years and we accept it. 
What is the Australian Assistance Plan? It is a concept in which local communities in various regions throughout Australia can band together and look after, evaluate and assess the evolving social needs in a community. It is not a handout from the Government which says: 'OK, you have a problem here; we will give you money to fix it'. It is not a Government department which looks after the mentally handicapped or whatever. This plan says to the people of Australia: 'If you are prepared to help yourselves we will give you so much catalytic assistance to help yourselves'. As a result 37 or more regions have been formed throughout Australia and thousands of Australians who never bothered about getting involved in local government or Government have joined in, have contributed to the plan, do attend meetings, join its task forces and go into the grass roots of each community to find out what the social needs of each community are. The thing that holds it together is the fact that the Government has said: 'We will fund the appointment of an executive officer, an office, a secretary and up to 4 community development officers who can be the people who will go out among the community and report back to you so that you can report to your regional committee '. 
To me this is an exciting concept because I am often asked by people what I rate as the biggest problem facing the people of Australia todaythe biggest menace facing Australia today. I do not hesitate. Certainly inflation, unemployment, the interest rate and those sorts of things are important, but they are abstract in the sense that they do not look after the individual on the ground. They do not care about people as individuals. If I am asked what the greatest menace to Australia is today, I would say it is the fantastic growth and concentration of people in our cities because world wide experience has shown that the drug problem, the problems of alcoholism, marriage break-up, baby bashing and all of those social evils which affect the human being are rampant in the cities which are too large. If we believe that life in the big city forces on people the 3 barriers to liberalism in a human being- conformity, bureaucracy and anonymity, and that is what the big city does to a person; it makes him feel part of an amorphous mass removed from the decision-making process and governed by a bureaucracy that he cannot seeand if we believe this sort of thing gives him a feeling of isolation that makes him turn to other pleasures, if I could put it that way, such as drugs, alcohol, marriage break-up and that sort of thing, then surely this is the area which we as a Federal Parliament ought to be assisting. This to me is the very essence of liberalism. In fact, that is why I am a Liberal and proud to be a Liberal. 
Has the Australian Assistance Plan been a success or a failure? Like many of the good things that the Labor Party brought in during its 3 years in office- and it did bring in many good things -it fouled this up by bad administration, by spending money as if it was going out of fashion. I am not going to advocate that the Australian Assistance Plan as it was structured by the Labor Party should be maintained. What I am saying is that we are morally, politically and I believe conscientiously bound to it. I would like to say that during the election campaign, not as the shadow Minister for Social Security but as the Minister for Social Security or the caretaker Minister for Social Security, I was authorised by the Cabinet itself to issue on 22 November a statement which committed this Government if elected to retain and maintain the Australian Assistance Plan. That was said in these unequivocal terms: 
The Liberal-National Country Parties reiterate their commitment to supporting and enlarging participation in the decision-making structures relating to the AAP. 
That statement was made for a particular reason. A commitment to continue the AAP was in the social welfare policy of the Parties. That policy, I am proud to say- and I hope I say it with some modesty- did something to win votes in the outlying electorates that were won from us in 1972 and 1974. It is in those kinds of electorates that we find the swinging voter who does care about his community. 
At that stage on 22 November there was a great deal of doubt about that policy. It was put to me by the Australian Council of Social Services by several regional councils and by Liberal and Country Party candidates in those sorts of areas: 'We are getting complaints that your policy is not quite clear enough '. I took that to Cabinet and I was authorised to issue the document I have in my hand. It clarified our policy and it unequivocally commits us to a continuation of the Australian Assistance Plan. I would regard it as a very serious matter- I say this knowing the consequences of what I am saying- if the AAP is decimated, if it is changed to such an extent that it cannot function any more, if it is changed to such an extent that it cannot perform its functions. 
I say this knowing that the Government has massive economic and budgetary problems, but I do believe very strongly that sometimes in this place we talk too much above our heads about these issues like unemployment, inflation and so on. They are vitally important. I am not saying they are not, but what I am suggesting is that sometimes in this place we get too obsessed with the abstract, with the theory, and sometimes we forget the effects the changing society in which we live is having on human beings. The quicker we return to that and maintain those sorts of things which do care about the individual I think the more respect we will earn in the electorate. 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question. Has he seen the reported statements attributed to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, that the Government has agreed not to proceed with its proposals to legislate for the conduct of all union elections by the Australian Electoral Office? If he has seen them, can he say whether these statements are correct? 
I will speak briefly on this clause. I will be mildly critical of the Government, which I do not like to be publicly, but I think this matter is so important that the words have to be said. I do not know that there is any more complex or complicated piece of legislation on the statute book than the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. To understand the ramifications of it, or any amendments to it, one has to get among the trade union movement, trade union members, members of employer organisations to see the implications of every amendment to this Act. Although one might have the greatest legal mind in Australia, although one might be an experienced politician, although one might think he knows all about industrial relations, it is not until one gets to the trade unionists, to whom this Act is a Bible under which they operate from day to day, that one understands the implications of any amendments to it. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for Hindmarsh. They are practitioners. These are men who owe their positions in the trade union movement to their knowledge of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I find it incredible that an omission such as that which the amendment rectifies should have occurred in a Bill like this. As I understand it- I am sure I will part company with my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh now- that trade union which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  rightly points to as running rather peculiar elections, the Australian Metal Workers Union, would have been laughing to eternity at the Bill before this amendment was proposed. That union already had postal ballots and this Bill would not have affected it at all. It puzzles me how a Minister who is probably the busiest and the hardest-working Minister in the Cabinet could receive an amending Bill from his Department with this obvious omission. To err is human. I am not saying that the Department, which is extremely efficient, is infallible or should be infallible. All I am doing at this stage is making a plea to the Minister to organise a panel of trusted trade unionists- there are many- and trusted members of employer organisations with whom he can consult on a confidential basis on future amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, so that omissions like this will not be repeated. I believe that this is done in other areas of endeavour by the Government. I am not persuaded that it cannot be done in this field. 
-After those few words from you,  Mr Lucock,  I rise with some diffidence because when the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and I first spoke on this I thought we were impeccable in keeping within the Standing Orders. It was only those good friends of mine- both are good friendswho followed me who transgressed. The fact that you have shown tolerance in respect of this,  Mr Chairman,  is wise because the Bill which we are debating today is unreal insofar as parts of it will come into operation following royal assent but they are only relatively smaller parts of the Bill. The gutsy parts of the Bill, if I may use that expression, are not going to come into operation until after proclamation which we understand might be 2 years away. That is why this is an unreal Bill. The important thing about this Bill is not what is in it, but what is not in it. That is why I think you have displayed wisdom,  Mr Chairman,  in allowing the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  to talk about the collegiate system, which I did not do. 
I ask for your indulgence for about 2 minutes,  Mr Chairman,  to allow me to make my comments about this system, and I will respect your courtesy. I think it is a great pity that we are not appointing a joint select committee of the Houses to inquire into the implications of the collegiate system. As  Chairman  of the Government Members Industrial Relations Committee and in conjunction with the members of the Committee I have heard evidence over the last 8 weeks or more on the pros and cons of this question. We have saturated ourselves with information about the good things a collegiate system can do and the evil things it can do. I rate myself as having only a modicum of intelligence but I confess to you,  Mr Chairman,  that I am utterly confusedmore confused than when I began to look into this matter- and I think I can speak for the other members of my Committee. What makes me worried about this is the pressure coming from extremists to abolish the legislation that the honourable member for Hindmarsh brought in during his term of office- pressure from both ends. Extremists always bother me, and that is why I am very suspicious about why pressure and lobbying is going on. 
If I had to make a decision at this moment I would say that I could be persuaded that a collegiate system up to State branch level- a onetier collegiate system- would be acceptable, but I would leave myself open to be persuaded that even that would be wrong. I am totally persuaded that the several tiered collegiate system, which some unions of the extreme right and also of the extreme left are operating and manipulating for the purposes of particular individuals, is very bad and' it has to go. I do not know whether the proper course of action is to leave untouched the amending legislation introduced by the honourable member for Hindmarsh when -he was Minister and which will become law, I think, about mid-November. If that proposal is not going to be allowed to operate I think the legislation has to be amended. I am sorry that the Government has not acceded to the request that a joint select committee of both Houses should be appointed forthwith to report to this House by the end of August, to make sure it does its work, on all the implications of, I think, section 133 that the honourable member for Hindmarsh introduced. If such a committee were set up I would be better informed; the House would be better informed. I conclude as I began my first speech on this clause: The Conciliation and Arbitration Act is the most complicated, complex and sensitive on the statute book. God knows what we will do if we simply abolish the amendment that the former Minister brought in. I express my disappointment that the Government has not acceded to the request for the establishment of a joint select committee. 
-I am pleased to support the Government most strongly in this debate and to speak against the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I cannot really say with truth that I am speaking from the highest point of objectivity when I support the Government on this measure because the new Medibank scheme is almost identical, if not identical, to the health scheme . which I wrote for the Liberal and National Country parties in May 1974. Therefore, I am obliged to say that it is a fantastic scheme. I say at the outset, picking up a couple of the comments, that this is essentially why I rise today- to identify myself with whatever support I have, from the public and to support the Government very strenuously. I compliment the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  In the face of unbelievable difficulties when he took over this job, he has made a splendid effort in producing a first class scheme. 
I should also like to place on record the fact that I will not be a trendy or what is now known as fashionable by joining Medibank. It is all very well for people like  Mr Hawke,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and others on a similar level of salary to be opting for the dearest fund. Being an impoverished backbencher, I will have to shop around and join the fund which is most economic for me and my family. As it appears at the moment, that will not be the Medibank private fund but it will in fact be one of the private health funds. 
One of the quaintest parts of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition- I think it was unbelievable- was his berating the private health funds for undercutting Medibank. For years the private health funds have in fact been the target of the Labor Party. The Labor Party has an obsession about the private health funds. It is a manic obsession. Members of the Labor Party pour out hymns of hatred against the private health funds in the same way and in the same breath as they pour out hatred against the multi-national corporations. The Labor Party does not bother to remind people that the private health funds are not huge profit making multinational corporations. They are, in fact, cooperatives of millions of ordinary people. If it is a matter of judgment, without going into figures, I am a liberal because I have this passionate belief that private enterprise can perform functions, generally speaking, cheaper and more efficiently than public enterprise. Therefore, I believe that there is a place in health insurance- we are not talking about health care but we are talking about Medibank- for the private sector to use the expertise which it has acquired over the years. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  I believe- and I do not want to be too rude- was blatantly dishonest when he said, speaking about the levy, that the Fraser Government would be taking hundreds of dollars from each taxpayer each year to pay doctors and private hospitals. Of course we will do that, but what in the name of fortune was the Medibank concept under Labor doing? Labor was doing precisely the same thing in the form of taxes. I think it is a very poor political debating point for the Leader of the Opposition to try to hoodwink the Australian people by saying: 'Now you have to pay for it. Under the Labor Administration you did not have to pay for Medibank'. I believe that the good sense of the Australian people will regard that as a most absurd proposition and will reject it immediately. Quite often I am not terribly proud to be a politician because of the way some politicians behave. I sat here today a bit sickened to hear 2 Labor speakers criticising the Liberal and Country Party Government at the moment for spending half a million dollars on advertising Medibank. 
The honourable member can name them if he wishes. I do not propose to do so. The 2 men who said that, were members of a Ministry which spent almost $2m of taxpayers' money in publicising their own discredited health scheme. If they wanted to do that, that was fair enough. But after their having done that it makes me a little sick to hear them criticising us for doing the same thing at a quarter of the cost. They complained about the changes that have taken place to Medibank. I compliment the Government for not being intractable on this. The Government brought out a scheme as an amendment to Medibank and then there were strong representations from  Mr Hawke  and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to change it. The Government did change it. Is the Government going to be criticised for consultation with the trade union movement? That was the reason why the original brochures, whatever they cost, had to be reprinted. If governments continue to consult people like the ACTU I think that is a progressive move and not one to be criticised by the Labor Party. 
In passing I make this point not only about Medibank. I am continually pressing that this Parliament be given Green Papers and White Papers to debate rather than having  faits accomplis  presented to us, as happened with Medibank. If ever there was a classic case for a Green Paper to be presented on a matter and a joint select parliamentary committee to investigate it, it was Medibank. I express my disappointment that this was not done. I believe in this scheme. I believe it will result in economies in health insurance and in health care. I can see nothing wrong with competition. In fact I have been an advocate for competition ever since I have been in the Parliament. The health scheme that I introduced on behalf of the Liberal and Country Party in mid- 1974 had in it the proposition that there should be competition between the private health funds and a government health fund. This has worked extraordinarily well in the airline field. 
Is there anybody here who will deny that Trans-Australia Airlines functions more efficiently and more economically because it has competition from Ansett Airlines of Australia, or vice versa? Not a person in this place would deny that proposition. There might have been a few reactionaries way back. Who would deny that the ANZ Bank and the Bank of New South Wales perform more efficiently and economically because they have the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia to keep them honest and competitive. Is not that what it is all about? That is what Medibank is now. People have a choice. I believe that the rates announced by Medibank are honest figures. There seemed to be a suggestion from the Leader of the Opposition that they were cooked, that they were deliberately inflated so that the private health funds could undercut them and thus destroy Medibank. But as the Minister asked, why are they knocking Medibank? More than SO per cent of the people- millions of pensioners and millions of people on low incomes- will be served by Medibank. This will give a chance for competition to enter this field. 
I would despair if the health insurance field were left to a government monopoly because I am vitally interested in social welfare. I have been publicly critical of some of the cutbacks that this Government has made in social welfare because I believe that from humanitarian and cost benefit points of view cutbacks in some areas are not sound common sense. However, in this area I completely support the Government's proposal because I believe it will result in economies to the taxpayer, thus allowing the Government to enter those other areas of social reform. 
If Medibank had been allowed to continue in its present form, according to the figures I have, it would have devoured about one-tenth of the total money collected by the Government this year. That would have pre-empted any kind of progressive social reforms in other areas for years to come, as has happened in the United Kingdom and in other countries. I therefore commend the Government for what it has done in a most difficult area. I do not believe that the people of Australia would share with the Labor 
Party its concern about this matter, and I support the Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I will certainly support the motion at this stage but I am very jealous of the Australian Labor Party's achievement in adjourning this House at 11 o'clock at night. For years we sat here until midnight or 1 o'clock in the morning. This motion extends the sitting by only 10 minutes but it is the thin end of the wedge. The procedure has worked reasonably well up to this point and we are now voting simply to continue it for the rest of 1976. 1 would need greater persuasion if it is proposed to change Standing Orders permanently in this regard. I think that this House meets at hideous, unnatural and ridiculous hours. They are absurd. Politicians in this place are almost unable to mix with the Canberra community, the diplomatic corps and the public servants or to lead that sort of life. I would need to be persuaded fairly strongly before I would vote for a permanent change to Standing Orders in any further extension to the 1 1 o 'clock adjournment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many tertiary students were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many (a) males and (b) females were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many (a) male and (b) female tertiary students were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many persons were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 April 1976. 
How many tertiary students were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 April 1976. 
How many persons have failed to take up NEAT allowances since 1 April 1976. 
8 ) How many persons ha ve left the NEAT scheme since 1 April 1976. 
How many (a) males and (b) females have left tertiary study since cuts in their NEAT allowances started on 1 April 1976. 
10) What amount had been paid to NEAT students who left tertiary studies without completing courses, from the commencement of their training until 1 April 1 976. 
How many persons have applied for re-training since 1 March 1976. 
How many persons have been granted the NEAT allowance since 1 March 1976. 

 -Mr Speaker, the letter that I wrote to you this morning proposing discussion of this matter of public importance was not government sponsored; it was entirely my idea. I have received neither encouragement nor discouragement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  or the Government. I think it is fair to say that at the outset so that it is understood that whatever I say now does not necessarily constitute the views of the Government. 
A moment ago I felt a great sense of achievement when I saw members of the Opposition rise in their places and support the proposal for a discussion of this matter of public importance. I have written some articles recently saying that this sort of circumstance, in which we as a parliament of free people can be bipartisan in regard to at least some aspects of some issues, does not arise nearly often enough in this parliament. In my parliamentary career I have very rarely found such a sense of revulsion as people are experiencing now, and are informing me of, in regard to the present activities of the people who control the government in Uganda. Although my raising this matter may do very little to alleviate suffering, I ask myself: 'What are we here for?' We are here as parliamentarians in a free country representing a free people. If we continue to sit back and watch atrocities being committed against people, no matter what their colour or their ideological views, there is only one thing we can be sure of, and that is that those atrocities will go on unabated. But even if we, in the parliament of a small country of only 13 million people, can, following this debate- particularly if it is bipartisan- send a ripple through the world by means of the international wire services, then maybe other free parliaments will take this matter up, and perhaps the atrocities of man against man will abate a little and this exercise this morning will not have been without value. 
This discussion this morning may well set a precedent. When I discussed the matter with my friends both on this side of the House and the other side of the House, some said to me: 'Why pick Uganda? Why not pick the apartheid policy in South Africa? Why not discuss the people being held without trial in Russia, China, Indonesia or Singapore?' 
-Or wherever. 
-And the people in India. We could go on and on. That is a valid retort. But we have to start somewhere. The fact that atrocities are taking place in other countries surely should not stop any of us, and, I hope, some honourable members in the future, taking up these questions of human rights in other countries, if our voices in the Australian Parliament mean anything at all. 
I picked Uganda because the situation there is different in principle. The slaughter there is of Uganda's own people. It is not motivated by ideological, religious or any other reasons by which man can normally justify notorious behaviour. But there is another fact about Uganda. It is a country that apparently harbours international hijackers. I put it to honourable members that no human being who decides to travel overseas by airplane is safe while there are countries and governments that give sanctuary to hijackers. Evidence is on the board about this country with regard to the recent Entebbe disaster. Many of us travel overseas. Together with seven or eight other members of this Parliament I will be fortunate enough to represent this Parliament in the Interparliamentary Union Conference in Spain next month. If by chance I happen to board an aircraft in Europe on which there are a number of Israelis- ordinary, decent citizens and tourists with no political affiliations- then that aircraft in which I am travelling could be immediately endangered by some terrorist who might hijack it, bomb it or cause mass slaughter. The only reason those sorts of hijackers can survive is that governments like that of Uganda give sanctuary to international hijackers. If the peoples of the free world and the parliaments of the free world have any guts at all they will realise that the only way in which to stop international terrorism, such as that at Munich or Entebbe or the other countless acts of international terrorism against innocent people is to stand up and say that they deplore such actions and take positive steps to prevent them. There are ways in which countries such as Uganda can be forced to stop harbouring and giving sanctuary to international hijackers of aircraft, but the fact is that the free Parliaments of the world have not got the guts to take the sorts of actions which would prevent international hijacks. 
Uganda became independent in 1962. In February 1966,  President Dr Obote  came under parliamentary criticism and swiftly moved to protect his position by carrying out his own  coup d'etat.  Elections had not been held since 1962 but were announced for April 1971. In January 197 1 while  Dr Obote  was absent in Singapore at a Commonwealth Prime Ministers Conference -I suggest that it was an act of rare courage for him to leave his country at that time- the armed forces under Major-General Idi Amin Dada seized power. The elections of 1971 were never held; there is no indication that elections will be held in the future. In foreign relations,  President  Amin was originally friendly with Israel but turned to Libya's  Colonel Gaddafi,  who agreed to support  President  Amin if he threw out the Israelis. On 9 August 1972  President  Amin gave 50 000 human beings who were Asian by an accident of birth 90 days to get out of the country. He expelled those 50 000 people, without consultation, by 7 November, just two or three months later. Domestically, Idi Amin has made himself an absolute dictator. The erosion of political freedoms has been accompanied by continued economic deterioration. Decrees have been promulgated which effectively placed the armed forces above the law, with full powers of search and seizure of property. They are granted wide powers of detention without trial and power to- and I quote- 'shoot at sight'.  President  Amin is the absolute ruler who makes all the decisions himself and who personally executes his orders, including those to liquidate his challengers. 
With regard to the atrocities, I refer to a report in the  Observer Foreign News Service  written by  Mr David  Martin who has written a best-selling biography of  President  Amin. The report states: 
President Amin, to a greater or lesser extent, personally controls Uganda's four main killer squads. These are the Public Safety Unit, Bureau of State Research, Presidential Bodyguard and Military Police. He may not order every murder but he is the instigator of the policy which allows these killings. 
Today the most feared group in Uganda is the euphonistically named Public Safety Unit (Mu). It was created by President Amin in 1971 soon after he came to power, reportedly to stamp out 'Kondoism', the Ugandan name for armed robbery. 
The PSU has about 300 members with barracks at Naguru on the eastern side of the capital, Kampala. Within these barracks a former armoury, where in two tiny cells SO inmates can be held, serves as the prison. 
Former inmates estimate that on average only three of every 10 people admitted to Naguru survive. One told me that recently during six weeks in Naguru he personally witnessed 22 murders. Several said that after a prisoner is shot another prisoner is ordered to smash the dead man's head with a car axle until it is no longer recognisable. Then he is ordered to lie beside the victim in the blood and gore. 
Several people who have been recently released from Naguru corroborate this account They say that prisoners are continually tortured and that occasionally President Amin visits the prison. 
David Martin continues: 
The second most important killer unit is the Bureau of State Research (BSR) 
Which again is a euphemistic title for something so infamous-  which has its headquarters at Nakaero next door to the President's lodge in the centre of Kampala. 
BSR, unlike the PSU, rarely kills people at its headquarters. Rather it picks people up at their homes and businesses and kills them in the bush outside Kampala. 
Two of the bureau's favourite killing grounds are the forest of Namanve and Mabira a few miles from Kampala off the Ginja road. One source, a senior army officer, told me that last year after the killings in the forest became common knowledge, a team of police and army officers Was sent there by President Amin. 
The source said he personally counted 500 bodies. Their findings were reported to President Amin but he took no action to bring the killers to court or stop the killings. 
Unlike the other squads, the BSR operates both inside and outside Uganda. It has agents in all missions overseas, including London. Exiles on the run have been hunted in Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia and in London by killer squads from the bureau. 
David Martin goes on: 
The common denominator between Amin and his killers is that they are either from his own West Nile Kakwa tribe" which numbers only 60 000 or are Nubians and Southern Sudanese. They have little education and despise educated people and institutions of learning. 
Beyond that their fates are bound together. While the bulk of the Army are revolted by the killings, which some Ugandans believe could now be over 200 000, the Kakwa and (he Nubians effectively control the keys to the armouries and weapons which would be needed to stage a successful coup or suppress an attempted one. 
One could go on with this list of atrocities. I do not think any decent person in the world was not revolted by what happened to an innocent Israeli tourist whom I believe was in her seventies.  Mrs Dora  Bloch was reportedly pulled out of the hospital in which she was suffering from poisoning.  Her  body was finally found on the edge of a forest burnt and desecrated. 
Students from  Makerere  University are being hunted like criminals. Eighty were slaughtered in jail and 30 more on a river bank. More than 1 SOO students are in the custody of the police. Their only crime apparently is to have demonstrated against the admission of President Amin's son to the university. Attacks on businessmen began over the past weeks. Many prominent men with import-export links were arrested and are feared dead. 
I conclude by quoting once again from David Martin who probably knows more about this country than anybody alive. It is tragic to hear this man's words. He said: 
Strange as it may seem, this is essentially a good time for Uganda's President Idi Amin. He is exactly where he most likes to be- on the centre stage orchestrating slaughter. 
My final remark is that if men and women in this Parliament and parliaments of the free world can allow a dossier like that to be put to us day after day and remain quiet after a man like Martin says that there is a human being today in another country with whom we do have some relationships orchestrating slaughter, they are not fulfilling their function. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many tertiary students were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many (a) males and (b) females were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many (a) male and (b) female tertiary students were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 March 1976. 
How many persons were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 April 1976. 
How many tertiary students were receiving NEAT allowances at 1 April 1976. 
How many persons have failed to take up NEAT allowances since I April 1 976. 
How many persons have left the NEAT scheme since 1 April 1976. 
How many (a) males and (b) females have left tertiary study since cuts in their NEAT allowances started on 1 April 1976. 
10) What amount had been paid to NEAT students who left tertiary studies without completing courses, from the commencement of their training until 1 April 1976. 
How many persons have applied for re-training since 1 March 1976. 
How many persons have been granted the NEAT allowance since 1 March 1976. 
-I am pleased to be participating in this debate because I agree with the terms of the matter of public importance, namely, the worsening employment prospects for young people. I agree with that because it is a fact- a very sad fact about today. Like too many debates in this place, we have heard two speakers from the Opposition- I listened very carefully to each word they said- but we have not heard any constructive suggestions. Unfortunately, this is not only an economic problem, it is also a social problem and human problem. I should have thought that if any subject could be debated in a bipartisan or objective way it would be the problem of unemployment of young people of this country. 
I should like to refer to a survey conducted by the Commonwealth Employment Service, which found that about 50 per cent of young people unemployed had attempted education only up to Form 3 level. Their work experience tended to be at less than skilled level. They are the people who for one reason or another coped less successfully with the education system, and the pattern is repeating itself in their experience in the labour market. Interviews with the young conducted by the CES suggest that they are not as content with their lot on the dole as some might believe. Those with the better emotional and family resources have the least difficulty. Some even have hobby-type interests. Not surprisingly, the majority have trouble filling in their time. They are not only idle but also bored. Not surprisingly also, they stay in bed, hang around coffee shops and drift into petty crime. None of those activities strengthens their capacity or desire to complete for employment. Were the unemployment to be prolonged, it could become a life style. 
Looking at the problem in human terms, that is a fairly devastating prognosis of what we can expect for a considerable number of Australian young people. To get it into context, and not necessarily to make a political point, let me quote some figures. When Labor came into office the number of unemployed was 136 000. When it went out of office the number of unemployed was 328 000. As far as young people are concerned, when Labor came to office 80 000 young people were unemployed. When it went out of office, 1S2 000 young people were unemployed. That is about the situation today, except that in November this year another 80 000 young people will join the work force, and most of them will not be able to find employment. To give an example- this is why I agree with the terms of the matter of public importance and believe that unemployment is going to get worse- in speaking to the Retail Traders Association, I have been told that on a national basis, by the end of May last year it had absorbed 3 1 per cent of all school leavers, which is a significant proportion. From my discussions with friends in the retail trade, I understand that next year they will be able to absorb nothing like that number. By the end of May this year 15 per cent of school leavers still did not have a job. I am quite persuaded that next year the situation will be worse. 
This is not to attach blame to this Government. If all we are to do here in debates on human problems is try to attach blame we might score a point here and there, but are we going to help the basic problem? The point I make is that this is a very big problem in human and emotional terms. Youth unemployment is part of total unemployment, except that as unemployment generally gets higher youth unemployment, comparatively speaking, gets higher still and out of proportion. Recent projections of the 
Australian population by the National Population Inquiry headed by Professor Borne indicate that the proportion of the population represented by the younger age groups will reach a peak in 1 976- that is this year- of 1 7.6 per cent and that the population will increase at a faster rate in the 15 to 24 age group for the remainder of the century. So this year and next year, simply because of the demographic structure of our population, the problem is going to get worse. In August 1975 the unemployment rate for the 15 to 19 age group was 12 per cent, compared with a rate of 4 per cent for the total work force. So we have a structure where the youth are the ones who are suffering and who will continue to suffer. There is the problem. 
One of the devastating things that happened in the last 3 years was the pace-setting techniquethe pace-setting philosophy of Clyde Cameron, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, and his Government. When the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was speaking a moment ago I heard the most mindboggling interjection from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  The Minister said something about wage explosions, and with an air of consummate naivete the honourable member for Gellibrand interjected and said: 'Did we do that?' The Labor Government deliberately and wilfully set off on a course of pace-setting in the Public Service. If there is one sure way of creating inflation it is to engineer a situation where wages increase ahead of productivity, and that is precisely what the Labor Government did. It was very honest about it. The Labor Government said that it was doing this despite the warnings that came from our side of the House at the time. I believe that there is more cause for worry than the present figures indicate because I suspect that there is now a permanent component of unemployed in the work force. 
No matter what government is in office in this country, I think we can forget any thought of going back to the halcyon days of 1 per cent of the work force being unemployed. Like all members of Parliament, I go into the factories, and everywhere I go the managing director or the works manager says with great pride: 'See that machine? It cost us $lm.' Then he smiles and says: 'But it is doing the work of 50 men. ' That situation exists right through the nation because labour has priced itself out of the market. It is a sad thing, a tragic thing, that has been done to the work force. I am pessimistic that even when we do return to conditions of economic buoyancy we will not be able to return to an unemployment rate of 1 per cent or 2 per cent. Certainly that situation is not of this Government's making; it is now part of the system and built into it. The ridiculous mania for increasing wages at any cost has been devastating. Recently I was holidaying for 2 brief days on Lindeman Island, where I met many friends from the Great Barrier Reef islands. They told me of conditions there where young people of 16, 17 or 18 years of age were obtaining, because of the penalty rates inflicted on the industry, take-home pay of $140 a week. With double time for Saturdays and treble time for Sundays, they were obtaining a take-home pay of $140 a week, plus full board and accommodation. That industry cannot afford that sort of situation. That is why people are now leaving Australia in droves to go to Singapore and other places where costs are lower. There must be greater co-operation between academics and employers in the training and placement of school leavers. Education is too important a thing to be left to academics. I would like to see investigated a scheme of subsidising employers who might employ the unemployed, and I would like the co-operation of the unions in that regard. I would like the proposal for a selective Regional Employment and Development scheme, run by the good managers that we have in the ministry, looked at again. I support and I am happy with what the Government is doing about these things. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1976-77 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 26 August, on motion by  Mr Lynch: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Whitiam  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all the words after "That" be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: "the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates Federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence". 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question. I emphasise that my question is directed to a matter of principle, not detail. It concerns the situation arising from the unilateral action taken by the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland, in banning a locally produced television comedy series, if I may dignify it by describing it as such, which nevertheless has an unbelievable 3 1 per cent of the total viewing fascination. I ask: Will the Minister convey to  Sir Henry  Bland the deep concern of myself, other members of Parliament and many people in the community that a self-appointed arbiter of viewing tastes has acted in this way- not necessarily in relation to the program under discussion, but on a matter of principle that similar unilateral action might be taken in the future on more important matters, such as questions of political and social significance? Will he convey to the  Chairman  that censorship of the programs of the ABC should be exercised only after full discussion with all members of the Commission and then only for overwhelming reasons and in rare circumstances? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the recent press reports alleging that rigid and oppressive censorship laws have been introduced in India, preventing foreign correspondents from reporting freely on the political and social situation, is the ABC's New Delhi correspondent subject to these laws. 
Has the Commission been given any guarantee by the Indian Government that its correspondent can report freely on political activities in India. 
3 ) How many stories has the correspondent filed since the censorship restrictions were imposed. 
Is there any intention by the Commission to withdraw its correspondent from India. 
-I should like to ask the Prime Minister an almost identical question on the same subject as the question asked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Will the Prime Minister give this House an assurance that the contents and recommendations of the Fox report will be fully debated in this House before a Government decision is taken or announced? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a statement of about 10 seconds. 
-I thank the House. I should just like to ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  whether he has had any indication from the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  as to when the debate mentioned in the statement is likely to come before the House. 
-I draw to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs reports that Israel might be excluded from participation in the European Group of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. Can the Minister advise the House whether this is so? If it is so, what action does Australia propose to take about this matter? 
I should like to move an amendment to the motion before the House. I believe that I have been given the opportunity to do so by the fact that the Opposition has not moved an amendment to the motion. I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and that the House is of the opinion that there should be a two year moratorium on the mining and exporting of uranium as mentioned in the Fox report to allow sufficient time for public debate as recommended by the Fox Committee and for further research into the risks involved and possible alternative energy sources'. 
If this means voting against the Government and against my Party, so be it. I mention in passing that it will be the first time in 1 6 years in this Parliament that I have done so. I say this after having read the Fox report thoroughly on at least 4 occasions. The question posed to me is: Should Australia mine and mill its uranium deposits? I believe that this is the most important subject discussed in this Parliament since the Vietnam war. 

 Mr Justice Fox says that it is one of the most important things discussed by this Parliament. As I speak,  Mr Deputy Speaker, Mr Speaker  is not in the Chair, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is not in the House, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is not in the House, Cabinet is meeting, only 2 Ministers are in the House and since this debate began on something which I believe is the most important subject since the Vietnam war the attendance of members of Parliament in the chamber has ranged from eleven to nineteen. Indeed, there are only 5 representatives of the Press in the Press Gallery at this time. Not for the first time, my judgment of what is an important issue facing Australia is wrong. I should have thought that uranium is a very special metal. It contains fissile atoms. It is used or misused in 3 main ways. Firstly, it is used to produce heat to generate electricity; secondly, it is used in the field of medical therapy; and thirdly, it is used to produce nuclear bombs. 
I begin by quoting one of the principal findings of the Fox report. Its starkness and clarity of language need no embellishment. On page 185 under the heading 'Findings and Recommendations ', the report states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. 
Before examining future risks the report reminds us on page 25 of the current situation. Nineteen countries now have nuclear power stations. Another 7 countries have power reactors under construction and another 6 countries have them on order. The discussion tonight then is about the future. The question is: Is it safe, is it prudent and is it responsible for this Parliament, such as it is assembled now, to respond to the challenge given directly in the Fox report by agreeing to allow Australia's uranium to be used at this stage to add to the world's nuclear proliferation? 
Let me make it perfectly clear that I am not saying that uranium should never be mined or that nations of the world should never use nuclear energy. What I am saying is that this time man's knowledge, or lack of knowledge, of the proper regulation and control of the production of uranium and the hideous dangers inherent in its use or misuse is such that we as a Parliament should follow the advice of such expert commissions as the Fox inquiry in Australia and the Flowers Royal Commission in the United Kingdom. After reading the findings contained in those reports, the answer is that we should wait. The very last words contained in the Fox report state its oft repeated plea that no decision should be taken until a reasonable time has elapsed. This leads us to ask: What is a reasonable time? A heavy suggestion for a 2 year delay is contained at pages 1 80 and 1 8 1 of the report. 
I must say that I find it almost incredible that the Government took only 14 days from the issue of the Fox report to decide that it would honour existing contracts totalling 9000 tonnes from Mary Kathleen. My dismay at that announcement was deepened by the pathetic decision of the Labor Party 6 days later which was almost identical to the decision of the Government. The magnitude of the problem that this Parliament is now discussing cannot be compared to the possible pollution that can be produced by a Newport power station or the possible environmental destruction of a Fraser Island. I say quite deliberately, after having tried to choose words that are not tainted by melodrama or exaggeration, that the problem being discussed tonight could have some bearing on the future of this planet and on the survival of life on it. These are strong words but, I believe, words which can be justified by the evidence before us. 
There have been very few, if any, previous occasions in my time in this Parliament when it could be said that a debate in this isolated, relatively non-influential, obscure national Parliament of Australia could have an effect on the rest of the world. But tonight it is true. Firstly, Australia has 25 per cent of the world's known reserves of uranium. That is significant in  itself.  What is even more important is that Australia has 70 per cent of the western world's uncommitted reserves. Therefore, in terms of quantity alone, a decision of this Parliament is important to the world's future course in using or not using nuclear energy as opposed to other forms of energy. But our importance goes even further than that. Any nation that wants to buy uranium, enrich it, use it or sell it must indulge in a massive capital outlay. 
The cost of producing electricity from nuclear power is now only marginally cheaper, if at all cheaper, than the production of electricity from fossil fuels. If Australia withheld, even temporarily, its reserves, world prices of uranium would escalate and influence nations to opt for cheaper sources of power. As the Fox report mentions, a more intensive search would be undertaken to harness the safest and cleanest source of energysolar power. Secondly, for a nation to involve itself in the high capital cost of building enrichment plants or nuclear reactors, it would need a source of supply from a country such as Australia because of Australia's stable political background. It would not contemplate establishing an industry where the source of its raw materials came from a banana republic or a country with an uncertain political future. Therefore, what we do with our uranium could have and probably will have a direct effect on the course of the world 's nuclear proliferation. 
I want to emphasise this point because there are many people who might agree with the clear dangers and reservations expressed by  Mr Justice  Fox and by the Flowers Royal Commission but who say resignedly: 'What is the use? If we do not sell our uranium someone else will sell theirs. ' This argument cannot be sustained by the known facts and logical assumptions. I now list some of the dangers, risks and future possibilities of nuclear proliferation as documented not by me but by the Fox report. With regard to the dangers of radiation, the report states at pages 108 and 109: 
Apart from rapidly fatal effects (within days) of high doses the major consequences of radiation are cancer, which may occur some years after the individual has been exposed and gene mutations which may occur in subsequent generations. 
At page 109, referring to waste products, the report states: 
Tailings contain radio-active materials which will remain harmful for over 100 000 years. 
When referring to the danger of serious accidents, the report states on the same page: 
The conclusion with regard to thermal reactors is that there is a very small but finite probability of a serious accident with release of highly dangerous radio-active material. The numerous accidents involving faulty function that have occurred in nuclear power stations, together with serious accidents known to have occurred in military installations, give no grounds for complacency. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard 2  pages supplied by the Defence, Science and Technology Group of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library concerning the dangers of nuclear accidents. 
-I thank the House. The report states that high level wastes, as distinct from lower level wastes, will remain radio-active for several hundreds of thousands of years. On page 148, the Fox report states: 
We conclude that nuclear material should be supplied to a state only on the basis that its entire nuclear industry is subject to back-up safeguards that cannot be terminated by unilateral withdrawal. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  assure this House that those kinds of safeguards are realistic? But is there any such thing as back-up safeguards? The Fox report goes on to say at page 149: 
There is widespread disinclination amongst states to accept regular inspections. 
With regard to safeguards from international terrorism, the report makes this devastating remark: 
An attempt by even a small, well trained and armed group to take over a nuclear installation could have a good chance of success. 
The Fox report states, using double negatives, that there is no reason to stop mining provided it is properly regulated and controlled. Before any responsible government proceeds with the mining and milling of uranium it must, I suggest, after the warnings and constraints of the Fox Commission completely satisfy the conditions of proper regulations and control, particularly in the light of the following sentences contained on page 152 of the report:  . . The Commission does not feel confident that nuclear facilities would currently withstand determined assaults by terrorist organisations. 
I remind the House that the Flowers Commission in the United Kingdom reached almost identical conclusions. If this sentence is read literally and acted upon sincerely it means that no uranium, if we are genuine about this matter, could be or should be sold under the present conditions. The Fox report says: 
There is widespread disinclination among states to accept regular inspections . . . 
Another threat was sabotage of nuclear plants causing destruction, a radiation hazard to surrounding populations and costly disruption of power systems ... an event which has already occurred in Argentina. 

 Sir, I conclude on this note: Frankly, I have not been impressed by many of the arguments put forward by the pro-nuclear lobby. One of these is that nuclear energy will help the developing nations. The Fox report at page 56 clearly illustrates that nuclear energy will not help developing nations to any significant degree because it needs large power stations and large investments which developing nations do not have. 

 Sir Philip Baxter says that Australia's most obvious customers are Japan, West Germany and the United States of America. I pause by respectfully asking the House to contemplate the military track record of at least two of that select trio of nations or, for that matter, the whole trio.  Sir Philip  Baxter says of the pro-nuclear lobby: Let us sell to those nations, knowing that the safeguards in such a sale are, according to Fox, an illusion.  Sir Philip  Baxter goes on: Let us sell to Japan, let us also reprocess nuclear fuel from other countries. I quote  Sir Philip  direct: 
Over the next 10-15 years the world could become a lawless place with the United States alliance breaking down and conflict between Russia and America with China being dragged in. 
It is quite possible that Australia might find itself enemies with Japan. We could only defend ourselves with the most sophisticated weapons possible, of which nuclear bombs should be an option. 
What a perfect catch 22.  Sir Philip  Baxter says: Let us sell uranium to Japan; let it make nuclear bombs; therefore, because we might be enemies with Japan one day, we must also make nuclear bombs to protect ourselves from Japan.  Sir, the  communists will support the banning of uranium. They will do this for devious reasons. They will ask Australia not to mine uranium, while preserving a thunderous silence about Russia and China doing it. What I plead tonight is that this will not be a politically polarised debate but that this debate might be considered by the people of Australia with its true implications understood. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
-This Bill obviously is not a contentious one. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  stated that the Opposition supports it. I think everybody in the Parliament realises the inevitability of extending the temporary provisions until the middle of next year. The gutsy part of the debate concerns the Government's intentions as expressed in the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the possible reactions of the parties involved on the waterfront to the negotiations that will take place over the next 6 months. I wish the Minister and the Government well in these negotiations. It is almost a cliche now to say that the waterfront industry in Australia is unique in character, origin and history in that traditionally it has had to have a temporary work force because of the fluctuations in the demand for labour on the waterfront from day to day. One day three or four ships requiring just a few waterside workers might be berthed in a port like Melbourne. The next day dozens of ships might be tied up in the port with other ships waiting in the bay, and every available man and  then some  will be needed. It is a unique industry, with an uneven demand for labour. 
I pay the Minister an enormous tribute for the outstanding success that I believe he has achieved in a short period. It is unique also to see a Liberal Minister of the Crown sitting down with the Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia at several meetings, having fruitful, progressive and helpful discussions and coming to decisions which, by the look of it, both parties will honour. The Minister has certainly achieved other things but that to me is a remarkable achievement and shows the character of the Minister and how he is held in the utmost respect in the industries over which he has control. Notwithstanding that he will need- I am sure he will agree- a lot of luck, patience and inspiration before the end of June next year to bring off something that will give this industry some stability. 
This is not the time for union bashing. I am one of the people who believes that that is against the interests of this country at the moment. In discussing the waterfront I think it is good to try to find out why it is traditionally so militant and why it is an area in which trade union activity over the years has always been one of disputation, zeal, heat and bitterness. This is not only unique to Australia. The waterfront industries all over the world are essentially like that. I have done a fair bit of study ofthe history of the Australian waterfront. It is interesting to note, when one looks at the bitterness which has existed there and which, to some extent, still exists there, why militants or communists are elected by the men to fill positions. One does not have to go back very far to recall the days when the employers on the waterfront behaved monstrously. I have read ghastly stories, when unemployment was very high- something like 25 per cent to 30 per cent- of employers, with their top hats and striped pants, standing up on the balconies when 200 men were waiting down below for a day's work so that they could feed their families. The top-hatted employers in between each sip of champagne would, just for fun, throw some silver or nickel tokens down in the dust. There would be a resultant brawl amongst these hungry, workless men. They would fight each other like animals to grab a token which would entitle them to a day's pay so that they could feed their families. This was of much amusement to the employers. That is a story which shows some of the industrial history on the waterfront. I inject that into the debate for those of us in this Parliament and for the people outside who sometimes become irritated with the behaviour of a union like that on the waterfront. 
That kind of assault on human dignity and human liberties that occurred in this industry years ago is not forgotten easily. It is handed down from father to son; the stories still circulate. But the bitterness is there. I believe that sometimes if those of us in control of these sorts of things could understand why there is bitterness and why there is an unreasonable attitude on behalf of the Waterside Workers Federationit has been unreasonable on many occasions- it would put us in a better position of understanding. It is a militant union and that has brought its own problems. I cannot say anything more favourable about the employers on the waterfront. If I wanted to be mischievous I could say something much less favourable about them. They have a very sorry history. It is not confined just to the kind of incident which I have related. They seem to have adopted the attitude at times of utter irresponsibility. 
Another cliche needs to be stated. In a nation like Australia which relies so heavily on imports and exports with virtually everything coming in or going out of the country by ship, we are totally reliant on the people who employ the labour to load and unload the ships and on the people who actually do the task. I have been critical of the Association of Employees of Waterside Labour and its confreres in previous times. They have been compliant even to the point of being passive in irresponsibly increasing costs on the Australian waterfront without giving any consideration at all to the people who are affected by actions taken on the waterfront, namely every citizen in Australia. No matter whether you are an importer or an exporter or just an ordinary person going to the supermarket to buy your goods your standard of living is affected by the behaviour of the waterside unions. 
Let me give one example of how the Australian waterfront is as bad as, if not worse than, most of the world. I very seldom extol the case of the apple growers of Australia and particularly of the Shepparton area in this House. I leave that to more competent colleagues like my friend the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  Let me give the facts on exporting a case of apples from Shepparton to London. Goodness knows it is hard enough to sell a case of Australian apples in London now. For every dollar spent on carting a case of apples from Shepparton to London 60c is spent on getting the apples from Shepparton to the hold in the ship at Port Melbourne. I do not think anybody can justify that as a fair deal. It is not only the apple growers who suffer over a thing like that; every person in Australia suffers. If we cannot sell our exports and if our balance of payment position deteriorates we are brought to a situation which, among other things, demands devaluation and a lowering of the standard of living of Australians. It is a very important industry. 
The second reading speech of the Minister furthers his declaration of 6 May. To pinch the beautiful phrase of my friend the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the Government is now going to get out of back seat driving in the stevedoring industry. We have been in the back seat for a long time. We have meddled in the affairs of this industry, with the Australian Stevedoring Industry Association and with many other authorities. As the Minister said on 6 May, provided certain things happen the Government will get to hell out of the area completely and allow the industry to be administered by the labour force and by the employers. Again, that is a monumental decision. I wish the Minister luck in that undertaking because the behaviour of the 2 parties in the past, for the reasons I have given, does not give much hope for success. But I do wish him luck. 
I digress for a moment to inject a little philosophy concerning the trade union movement generally. As I said, I most certainly will not engage in union bashing. As  chairman  of the Government members' Industrial Relations Committee I have asked the question which I will pose shortly of hundreds of people and I have never got an answer. Recently I was in the United States and, amongst other things, was studying the industrial relations framework in that country. At that point, the motor vehicle workers had concluded a deal with their bosses. As honourable members will be aware, the conciliation and arbitration system that we have does not exist in America. Every 3 years they have a drag- 'em-out-and-kick- 'em-all fight about the wages and conditions for the next 3 years. They reach agreement. When I was there, the motor vehicle workers and their employers had just reached such an agreement. I asked around and said: 'Will the union stick to its word and will the employer stick to its word?'. I was treated as though that was a stupid question. The answer to it was: 'Of course they will'. It is virtually unknown in the United States for a union or an employer to break such an agreement. I thought that in Australia this is one of the areas in which we behave quite strangely. Despite our attempt sometimes to be trendy, I would have thought that Australians of all people are a law abiding people. We are a law and order people. Australians suffer, more than anything else, from the instructions of authority. The decision of an umpire to an Australian is almost sacred- as anyone would testify at the Melbourne cricket ground any winter afternoon. 
The spectators might disagree with the decision of the umpire but they stick to it. No one goes out onto the field and takes over the game as sometimes occurs in banana republics. Yet the Australian public allows a union or an employer but particularly unions- I think I am being fair here- to make an agreement today, have it arbitrated on and the very next day or week break it. Nobody is outraged and nobody says that it is not fair play and that the umpire's decision is not being respected. The question I am asking is: Why does this happen in Australia? Is it because of our British heritage? Is it because we are too easy going? We do not encounter that sort of behaviour anywhere else. We condemn anarchy- sometimes too quicklyfor example, if a few students march through the streets or kick up a fuss at a university. If people do not obey the law the Australian public is very quick to condemn them. Yet we have industrial law being broken with equanimity and nobody seems to object. I do not know the answer to the question I posed earlier. Why are we so easy going in relation to this matter in Australia? I think that this is an interesting philosophical study which honourable members on both sides of the House ought to look at because whether one is a member of the Labor Party or the Liberal Party, one does not want strikes. We do not want disputation because we all know that that hurts everybody. It hurts the worker and it hurts the community because productivity is lessened. I have not been able to get an answer to the simple question of why this happens in Australia. I would be very grateful if anyone could enlighten me. 
I should like to have the indulgence of the House to deal with another piece of philosophy that is not directly associated to the Bill but which, I think, is relevant to it. I am sorry that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  did not commend the Minister on this point, but I think that the Minister very wisely is not opting for a confrontation with the Waterside Workers Federation by forcing redundancy. He will do it- if I can describe it in cynical terms- by means of a golden handshake. How golden the handshake will be has yet to be determined after discussion. The fact is that 1200 men in the industry now are doing absolutely nothing and being paid for it. They are being paid in total the amount of $400,000 a week or $20m a year- not by the employers but by us. The Australian public is paying that many men to do nothing. It is not the fault of the 1200 men. It is the fault of the crazy system which applies to the waterfront. They have to be retired in a graceful and peaceful way that will not cause confrontation. 
I again wish the Minister and his advisers great luck in handling those negotiations. As  chairman  of the Industrial Relations Committee of the Government, I commend the secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation,  Mr FitzGibbon,  for the patience and tolerance he has shown so far in these negotiations. I hope that he continues to display that patience and tolerance in the future because this is such a vital matter. If we, as a government, became heavy handed and said: 'Right! Out! No golden handshake- out under the existing conditions', only one sure thing would happen. The redundancy problem would not be solved. There would be a national confrontation. The Waterside Workers Federation, and probably the Seamen's Union, the Transport Workers Union and everybody else would have a national strike. The cost of such a strike to the waterfront alone would be $Sm. That would be the naked cost of holding up the ships. 
-I thank the Minister. It would be $5m a day. One could imagine a strike such as that lasting for 3 weeks. A conservative estimate of the total national cost of such a strike would probably be 10 times that figure. Therefore, I am delighted that the Minister and the Government are exercising wisdom and tolerance in this area. Many people are talking about confrontation with the unions and saying that unemployment will make the Phillip's curve come into play; because of unemployment the unions will be meek and mild and this is the time to really hit them. Let me convey to the House the thoughts of the trade union movement and people who sensitively look at the industrial relations scene. I ask those honourable members particularly on this side of the House who are saying: 'Now is the time to take on the unions', to think again of the consequences of a national stoppage. 
We have had wage indexation now for a couple of years or thereabouts. I do not intend to canvass the merits or demerits of wage indexation but I believe it exists as a sleeper. It does not allow a trade union leader  to make  a big fellow of himself with his union as much as he used to be able to do. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission virtually is doing the job of the trade union leader. The Commission virtually is giving these automatic increases to members of unions. When the election time comes around for each trade union leader he will be able to say in respect of fewer matters to his union members: 
Look what I have done for you in the last 3 years'. Therefore, I believe that any provocative act by employers or government would encourage even union leaders of moderate unions- this is human nature and I am not condoning it but I am saying that it would happen- and give them an excuse to say: 'Right, we will take you on'. I believe that any sort of move to get tough with the unions has to be thought out very carefully or we might find ourselves, for a variety of reasons, with a national stoppage which, at this stage of our economy, would virtually cripple Australia. I commend the Minister for what he is doing. I wish him good luck in his efforts. I also wish good luck to those people he appoints to the various committees and I hope that they will continue to use the tolerance and patience that they have shown up to this point of time. 
-I am rather surprised that this amendment comes from the Labor Party, particularly when the honourable member for Maribyrnong is leading for the Labor Party in this debate. This clause virtually allows the most stringent censorship of our television screens. I know what the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  is driving at on the question of standards. I sympathise with him. But I am rather persuaded to the view of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that we ought at least to give the private commercial interests and the Australian Broadcasting Commission a chance to be selfregulatory in the question of standards. They are the experts and they, I think, know what the public wants. They can assess what the public wants. If commercial interests assess wrongly their ratings go down. A self-regulatory process is already m the system. 
The honourable member for Scullin suggested that the ultimate arbiter on this matter should be Parliament. God forbid that we should have politicians determining television standards and what is in the best interests of the public. I wonder, with great respect, whether this amendment has been thought out very clearly. Let me quote the words of the amendment. They call for a subjective judgment. The amendment, which refers to the Tribunal, reads:  to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs- 
What the hell do 'adequate' and 'comprehensive' mean? The amendment continues:  are provided by commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations in the best interests- 
Can somebody tell me what that means? Does that mean that the best interests are served by putting on television a whole host of religious programs? If so, what religion? Should we be preaching for chastity before marriage or nonchastity before marriage? Should we say that the best interests of the people lies with cowboy and Indian shows? The more one discusses this the more absurd the situation becomes. The last part of the amendment is classic. It reads:  of the general public. 
Politicians, I think, spend most of their lives trying to search for that very elusive person, the general public. Who is he? Where is he? Are the honourable member for Scullin and the honourable for Maribyrnong saying that, with a show such as  Alvin Purple-  I raised this matter in the House previously- which extraordinarily grabs 33 per cent of the viewer ratings, somebody can say that it is not adequate and that it is not comprehensive. From reports I have heard, certain scenes are very comprehensive, but I was never privileged to watch any of them. Will anybody say that  Alvin Purple  is not in the best interests of the general public? The amendment seeks a very subjective judgment. It smacks of censorship. For that reason alone I would oppose it. 
The honourable member for Scullin did not deal to any great extent with an area about which I am deeply concerned, that is, the self regulatory functions of local content. I hope I do not misquote the Minister, but I understood him to say that the Government has made no decisions on this and that this is one of the things that the Government will ask the Tribunal to look at. I would not want to pre-empt the considerations of the Tribunal about whether commercial stations should determine their own local content. I agree with the honourable member for Scullin that here is an area where Parliament ought to step in and give some direction or indication to the Tribunal. I am completely persuaded that our national and commercial television should contain ample local content. I hope I am not mistaking the position, but I understand that all the licensees promised, when they got their licences, that they would include at least50 per cent local content in their programs. I am informed that last year- I think it is worse this year- local content was down to 36 per cent. That 36 per cent local content included things such as the news, weather reports, sporting fixtures, sporting replays, Moomba parades and so on which certainly - 
-Agreed. I thank my friend for the interjection. I was about to say that these local content programs are certainly good. Perhaps I should be more specific and say that I would like to see the preservation of drama and the usage of local talent such as actors, writers and directors. I propose to cite some figures given to me. I do not vouch for their veracity. They were given to me by the Actors and Announcers' Equity Association of Australia and I put them on record. Whether they are believed or not does not matter. If somebody can assail these figures as being untruthful it would be useful to the debate. 
In 1974, 6000 actors and 15 000 others were employed in drama- that is, serials and other series. The number dropped in 1975 from 6000 actors to 4000 actors and from 15 000 others to 9000 others. In the same period local content dropped from 44 per cent to 37 per cent. Ongoing drama production dropped from 421 weeks of production in 1974 to 269 weeks in 1975. I am not blaming the commercial television stations. People involved with the commercial television stations, thank goodness, are very responsible and able businessmen. The commercial television stations are all public companies. They have shareholders. Of course they are impelled to maximise their profits. They are not in the business of idealism, altruism, or nationalism. I believe that we in Australia are very fortunate with the calibre of our productions and television stations. If we gave them  laissez-faire,  of course they would buy the  Kojak  series. 
It is my favourite program. I think it is fantastic. Why should it not be? It costs $400,000 an episode to produce and our commercial television stations can buy it for something like $5,000. I am told that it would cost $50,000 to produce a comparable Australian program. If I were the managing director of a commercial television station I would go for  Kojak  rather than the Australian production. But it is important that we maintain the good Australian productions. I think that a nation has to have an ability to look at itself, to laugh at itself and to be critical of itself. We might all cast aspersions on  Number 96, The Box  and  Alvin Purple  which are produced here- they do not capture my fancy- but at least in these programs an Australian can see himself mirrored. One of the problems about Australia and Australians is that we do not laugh at ourselves enough and we do not fully see ourselves as we really are. 
-I think it is important and I think it is basic. This is all I propose to say about the matter When the Tribunal examines the selfregulatory functions concerning content, I would be very distressed if that was left entirely to the commercial television stations. 
I did not get a guernsey during the second reading debate, and this is the first time that I have ever spoken twice in the Committee stage of a BUI. There is one point which I did not have time to make previously. I would, say unashamedly to the Tribunal that the Parliament- because the Green report asked this Parliament to debate the issueshould give the Tribunal guidelines in 2 areas. That is why I have some sympathy for the Labor amendment, but I do not think it answers the problem. I have spoken about the first matterlocal content. I think it would be a disaster if the fantastic achievements we have already made in local talent, drama, acting, writing and scripting were to go down the drain. 
The only other point I make is that guidelines should be given to the Tribunal concerning children's programs. The only reason I am speaking today is that I am stupid enough, I suppose, to believe that the Tribunal, when it meets, will read the report of the parliamentary debate. It might be of use to members of the Tribunal to see what some members of Parliament said. Again I do not blame the commercial telecasters but I do not know whether any member of this 
House has seen the so-called children's programs shown during children's hours. They are not children's programs. Without blaming the commercial broadcasting companies let us look at their rationale. They are in the business to sell advertising time. It is a fact that a tot aged three, four or five does not have too much purchasing power. When my kids were that age they did not have much, I can tell the Committee that. 
I have not the business acumen or the wealthy background of the honourable member for Robertson. One of 2 things happens on the commercial broadcasting channel. It changes the program to cater for sub-moronic adults who then watch children's programs. Although they are sub-moronic adults they have money. They buy corn flakes or whatever it is that is being advertised. The alternative is something even more insidious. Some advertisers during children's hours twist their advertising to meet the mental level of the viewing child aged four, five or six, and say that if the child does not buy a certain kind of food or toy its mummy does not love it. That is a fairly immoral way of advertising over the air waves. If the Labor Party had directed its attention to that aspect I would have had a lot more sympathy with it. In the hope that the Tribunal reads these speeches, I ask it to give some consideration to the question of children's programs. 
-A large number of members on this side of the House agree essentially with the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  but we have not had an opportunity to speak. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-As a former Leader of the House of Representatives I want to add my name very briefly to the tribute. Those of us who have occupied that position know that the House often tumbles quickly into a state of crisis. Although the Standing Orders are written in ex- quisitely fine language, sometimes the nuances of tern are difficult to understand in a time of crisis. At that time a Leader of the House wants some confirmation of his own views or doubts. While I was in that position  Mr Parkes  always gave that splendidly and quickly. I too wish him and his wife happiness in his retirement. 

 Mr Speaker, thank you very much. Would you express my sincere thanks to the Leaders and other speakers for their kind remarks and their good wishes? 
That is the closest a  Clerk  can get to thanking honourable members himself. I contemplated at one stage deferring petitions this morning until after this event so that the  Clerk  could stand up and read the petitions. It might have given him an opportunity to interject on himself and to thank honourable members himself. 
-by leave-I was privileged to be one of the 8 Australian parliamentarians at the Sixty-third Conference of the InterParliamentary Union. It was the first such international conference which I had attended. I must say that I had my eyes opened. The Conference cost, in my estimation, about $US3m. Being a patient soul, I waited for 3 days of debate, listening to delegates from every conceivable type of autocratic totalitarian country talk about the values of civil liberties and democracy in known democracies such as Guinea, Ethiopia, etc. It was not until the delegate fom Haiti-I repeat Haitirose to glorify the sanctity of the human soul and the sacredness of the human being that I felt impelled, uncharacteristically, to be provocative. I made the point that all the words spoken at that Conference by these nations, essentially black nations- I do not want to be misunderstood here- were criticising the so-called inhumanities of the British, the Rhodesians, the South Africans, the Israelis and the Americans. I said that some of the most monstrous atrocities known to man were being committed at that time in their own countries. It seemed to me that their speeches were so full of platitudes composed by public servants at home that it was time some.ody told the Conference a few home truths. I mentioned the atrocities of Papa Doc Duvalier ir Haiti, the incredible inhumanities of that maniac Idi Amin in Uganda and the atrocities in other places throughout the world that were causing somewhat of a furore. 
I hold the view that for too long the Western world has been compliant, even passive, in the international forums of the world, such as the IPU and the United Nations, and that the Western world, possibly through some feeling of guilt because of its past colonial sins, allows man's inhumanity to man in the newly developing nations to continue without any criticism. The Western world passively gives consent to it. I think that members of Parliament in the free nations of the world ought to remind themselves sometimes that human beings are being murdered in the so-called democracies that are members of the IPU. I hope that delegates to future conferences might remind these nations that there are white racists in the world, contemptible people who are racist and adopt racist policies. The actions of the Papa Doc Duvaliers and the Idi Amins feed those racists because they say contemptibly: 'Look at the black man in Uganda, Haiti, Guinea and elswhere; when they get power the abuse it'. Those men are holding back the cause of the liberty of coloured people more than anybody else. 
As one might imagine, that speech caused some sort of a stir. But I do not think I have ever been as proud to be an Australian as I was on that occasion. That sounds like a cliche, but I was, because every member of that delegationLabor, Liberal and National Country Partyagreed to back me to the hilt in the stand that I took. This was one of those occasions when one goes overseas with a group of Australians from all political parties that one feels rather proud. I thank members of the delegation for that. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the undertaking to enact Freedom of Information legislation, which has been given on 2 occasions in 1976, has the Government received the report of the interdepartmental committee to which the matter has been referred. 
) Did the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration publish a report on Freedom of Information including a draft Bill earlier in 1 976. 
If so, has the interdepartmental committee been instructed to consider this report and draft Bill and report to the Government. 
-I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  with great interest. I agree with a certain portion of what he said but I disagree strongly with other portions of his comments. I am surprised that the Parliament itself has not displayed more interest in this Bill. I think it is a milestone. Although many people have tried to suggest that it is simply a machinery BUI or a relatively unimportant Bill, I think this Bill can mark the beginning of the politicising of the Public Service. Strangely, the basic aim of the Bill- I believe implicitly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)-  is to take the sting out of the politicising of the Public Service that took place under the Labor administration. Therefore, the purpose being advanced for the introduction of this Bill is, in fact, to de-politicise the Public Service. With great respect, I have another view, and to this extent I agree with the Leader of the Opposition. This will leave the way open for the politicising of the Public Service, and I support that view. I have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal to politicise the Public Service. This is a classic argument, and one could mount a very respectable argument on both sides. 
Having been a Minister and having administered six or seven portfolios in my career, I have nothing but admiration for the integrity, the ability and the skill of the kind of people the Leader of the Opposition mentioned, the public servants, particularly the senior ones. But what happens when we have a change of government? We must look at this matter in context because there was not a change in government in Australia for 23 years. It was relatively simple for an election to be held; the Liberal and National Country Parties were returned; the same public servants were employed, and there was continuity. In 1972 something happened. There was a change in Government. Men in the Public Service who had been almost saturated with Liberal-National Country Party philosophy for more than 20 years had to confront a political party at the other end of the political spectrum, and there must have been difficulties. As much as I admire the integrity, the ability and the honesty of senior public servants, I am not prepared to believe that they are political eunuchs. In fact, if they are political eunuchs they should not be holding senior positions in the Government. I am not going to be persuaded that there are certain areas of policy that do not have a heavy political content. 
Can any honourable member tell me that the social welfare POliCY of the Labor Party is not different from the social welfare policy of the Liberal Party? Can any honourable member tell me that the policies of the Labor Party and the Liberal Party in relation to health, foreign affairs, defence, industrial relations and the Treasury are not diametrically opposed? In almost all these areas a deep philosophical cleavage exists between the Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. If a civil servant who has been used to receiving and implementing the policies of one government is confronted, through a change in government, with a diametrically opposed policy then certainly there will be problems. I believe that in certain areas difficulties would arise, but this would not be through any fault on the part of the public servant or through any lack of ability to adapt. I say with great respect that this Bill facilitates the creation of a great temptation on the part of a government to instal as permanent head a man who will implement his party's policies. I can understand but do not necessarily condone the actions of the Labor Government in its appointment of the 3 men mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition-  Dr Wilenski, Mr Spigelman  and  Mr Menadue-  two of whom I know personally. I have absolute and utmost respect for the integrity, honesty and ability of the 3 men but they are known members of the Labor Party. 
Nothing is wrong with that. I am simply saying that the problem is that the Leader of the Opposition in fact overtly politicised the Public Service by making those 3 appointments.  Dr Wilenski  is a very capable man. 
-I cannot see the relevance of that interjection from my friend because the man has been democratically elected to the Parliament by the people. If you are going to tell me that the people of the electorate of Ballaarat should not have elected Jim Short simply because he came out of the Treasury I would suggest that argument is of the highest absurdity. I am sure that a man of your wisdom would not suggest that, so I must have misunderstood you. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the tragic death of Archbishop Luwum of Uganda, a man who was widely known and highly respected by many Australians. I ask: Did the Government make representations to the Ugandan authorities about the Archbishop's safety? Is the Government satisfied with the explanations provided by the Ugandan authorities about the Archbishop's death? Does the Archbishop's death suggest that a wider campaign of terror is being waged and that basic human rights are being denied all Ugandans? Is the Minister in a position now to announce what further action, if any, the Government proposes to take on this matter? 
-by leave-I wish to announce to the House that I have resigned from the Liberal Party of Australia as from today. I believe I have conformed with the courtesies demanded of such a decision. I have informed you, 

 Sir, the Leader of my Party, the Right Honourable the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Victorian State  President  of the Liberal Party of Australia and the  Chairman  of the Hotham Electorate Committee of the Liberal Party. It naturally follows that I shall not be presenting myself as a candidate for the Liberal Party of Australia in the division of Hotham at the next House of Representatives election. 
I shall continue to represent the division of Hotham in this House for the duration of this Parliament or until such earlier rime as circumstances may demand. Although I am proud of the high personal vote I receive from the electors of Hotham, I recognise that I am here by virtue of my former membership of the Liberal Party and therefore believe it is proper that I should generally give my vote in support of the Government in the business before the House and in the conduct of the business of the House. However, I will exercise the right- which is already held by all members of the Liberal Party- to vote against the Government on any issue which a member believes to be not in the best interests of the country or his constituents. I extend my gratitude to the many friends and members of the Liberal Party in Hotham who have loyally supported me over the years and given me the privilege of serving in this House. 
I hope that my friends and colleagues in the Parliamentary Liberal Party will understand my reasons in taking this decision and that the personal friendships and relationships that I have made and enjoyed over the years will not be impaired by my action. I note in passing that notwithstanding the tag of 'rebel' that some people have chosen to put upon me, I have never exercised that right of voting against my Party in my 16 years in this place. In fact, I think it is fair to me to place on record that during the 15-month term of this Government, I have been publicly critical of its decisions on only 5 occasions. These were: 
. The 2 5 per cent cut in overseas aid; 
The abolition of the Australian Assistance Plan which I, with the full authority of the joint Parties had previously commended in this House as being one of the most exciting and progressive social reforms ever undertaken; 
The proposed abolition of the funeral benefits for pensioners; 
The original breach of the promise to index pensions; and 
The decision to devalue the currency and, once that decision was taken, the refusal to lower tariffs so as to contain the inflationary effects of that move. 
When these 5 public criticisms are put against the dozens of times I have publicly supported the Government, even on occasions when I did not agree with it, I believe the tag of 'rebel' is palpably unfair. There have in fact been a great number of issues with which I have strongly disagreed and on most which I have been invited by the media to criticise my Party. I have refrained from that criticism in the interests of Party unity and with a view to assisting the Government in overcoming the massive problems it faces, many of which were inherited from the results of the gross maladministration of the Labor Party's terms in office. However, the number of significant Government actions which conflict with my own views are now so many that I feel that my continued membership of the Liberal Party, as it is now led, managed and structured, would be incompatible with my beliefs and would constitute an act of hypocrisy. Inevitably some people will impugn my action and ascribe to it the motive that I am taking this course because I am not in the Cabinet. To that I simply state without argument that under no circumstances could I, or would I, serve as a Minister under the present leadership. 
Members of the House would know that one reaches a decision such as this- after giving 16 years of one's life to it- not without a great deal of deep thought and troubled deliberation; but as one who at least in latter years has tried to pursue a course of true liberalism, I find I can no longer do that within the confines of the Party. In these circumstances I believe the only honourable thing to do is to resign. 
For the record I simply state my areas of contention without debating them. I cannot agree with the Government's current economic policy. Particularly, I am concerned with its failure to honour the promise to the private sector to give it stable and definite future guidelines to allow it to plan and invest for the future. I believe the private businessman, especially the small businessman who employs the bulk of the work force of this country, is more confused, more in the dark about the future, and less confident than he was 15 months ago. This seems to be strange behaviour for a Party that champions the cause of free enterprise. 
I am very critical of the lack of consultation between the Government and the trade union movement. It would be cruel and unfair to ask the worker to be the sole bearer of the cost of reducing inflation; but wages are too high and taxes are too high to provide incentive for increased productivity by both workers and management. Interest rates are devastating, especially to the young, and yet no attempt at real, sensible and sensitive discussions between the Prime Minister and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been made. In fact the Prime Minister has refused to enter such discussions. Instead, while the economy continues to slump, these 2 leaders seem to be continuing in a public slanging match while the economy continues to deteriorate and the responsible blue and white collar Australian workers and management suffer. 
I confess to a very deep concern about the intrasigence of the Prime Minister in bringing in the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation at this time- a time of remarkable industrial peace and at a time when it is being vigorously opposed by both employees and employers alike. I have been grossly disappointed with the attitude of the Government on uranium mining. Notwithstanding the repeated requests by the Fox report for a full parliamentary debate we have had 2 hours only on it and it is now off the notice paper. I am grateful to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  for giving me an undertaking this morning that that matter will be restored to the notice paper. 
The last straw on this issue was the action of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in launching a pro-uranium book simultaneously with a statement by the Ambassador of Japan advocating the mining of Australian uranium. The breach of our promises to continue the Australian Assistance Plan, wage indexation, the value of the currency, the Social Welfare Commission, increased research on solar energy, are matters which have disturbed me greatly. 
Further, our incredible attitude towards Timor; the overt and capricious provocation of Russia, an almost pathetic reliance on the nonproliferation treaty which the Fox report described as giving only 'an illusion of protection'; the absence of strong Cabinet action to overcome the bureaucratic bungling and red tape affecting human beings seeking refuge from Indo-China are some other matters which have left me deeply concerned. 
On the other hand I draw no comfort from the current attitudes and policies of the Australian Labor Party. Although the state of the world economy contributed in some way to Australia's economic problems during its 3 years of office, its mismanagement of the economy resulting in the unique situation of causing unemployment to increase simultaneously with inflation was near catastrophic. I would be a little encouraged if I believed that it has learned some lessons from its errors but that does not seem to be the case. It is still motivated by events of the past, still obsessed with its socialist ideas and a hatred of private enterprise, and dominated by the shadowy faces in the trade union movement. In opposition its performance has been little short of ludicrous in questioning and probing the Government on the real issues that affect the country. 
I draw no comfort at all from the public opinion polls which indicate a Labor Government is possible- if not probable- in the near future. I find it almost unbelievable that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  a man who led his Party to its most humiliating defeat in history just 1 5 months ago- now ranks about equally in popularity and respect with the Prime Minister. Does this mean that the people of Australia hold both men and both parties in relatively low esteem? 
In conclusion may I say that I have become disenchanted with party politics as they are practised in this country and with the pressure groups which have an undue influence on the major political parties. The National Country Party properly represents the interests of a small sectional group- some of the rural community- but improperly in my view, and unduly, influences national policies quite out of proportion to the small group it represents. 
The Labor Party is dominated by the vested interests of trade unions. The Liberal Party, although properly concerned with the vital role of private enterprise, seems too pre-occupied with the wants of what is euphemistically known as 'big business' to the sacrifice and detriment of medium and small-size businessmen who form the backbone of our industrial and commercial sectors. 
The parties seem to polarise on almost every issue, sometimes seemingly just for the sake of it, and I wonder whether the ordinary voter is not becoming sick and tired of the vested interests which unduly influence the present political parties and yearn for the emergence of a third political force, representing middle of the road policies which would owe allegience to no outside pressure group. 
Perhaps it may be the right time to test that proposition. That move will have to come from those people in Australia who believe in the encouragement of free enterprise, who believe it has not had a 'fair go' from interfering Governments who regularly change, without warning, the conditions under which they operate. It must come from people who believe in true justice for the work force and compassion for those in need, but who believe that actions must be taken to prevent social problems from occurring rather than trying to cure them and hide them once they have arrived. But above all, it must come from those people who are disgusted with those politicians and political parties who indulge mainly in cheap political point scoring in the endless pursuite of votes at any price and from people who want their Parliament to identify the real and significant problems of the future and to take action now which will make the country a good, safe and sound place for future generations. 
-I thank you for your call,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In my new situation, I propose to speak only on those issues upon which I feel strongly. I know that it presents difficulties to parties on both sides of the chamber to have an independent member in the House. I will not abuse that position in seeking permission to speak, but this happens to be one issue about which I feel very strongly. I am still getting used to  Mr Speaker's  decision to place me in this position in the House. To be placed to the right of the National Country Party is bad enough, but to be placed to the left of the Labor Party is even worse. 
It is no wonder that people who listen to the broadcast of the parliamentary proceedings get disgusted with politics. I am delighted that this matter is on the business sheet for today. I am not happy about the way in which it has been raised by the Australian Labor Party because I think it is a facetious and capricious way of trying to score a cheap political point. Instead of putting on the notice paper the subject of uranium, important as it is, the Labor Party draws attention to the Government's efforts to 'pre-empt and distort the uranium debate'. I do not agree that the Government has done that. If the argument had been that the Government has not encouraged debate in this House I might have been attracted to that proposition. But at the same time the Labor Party has shown no inclination to have the subject of uranium debated in this House. 
We are talking about something which I believe and which  Mr Justice  Fox and his Commission think is the most important issue ever faced in this country, because it is not only a question of what the high level or low level wastes might do to Australians in the mining, milling and enriching of uranium but also a question that can affect the whole of the human race and life on this planet. In fact, the Fox report says that the radio-toxic properties of uranium and its by-products do cause cancer and may cause gene mutations in future generations. So the subject we are debating today does not concern simply the importance of a Newport power station or the pollution of a Fraser Island. It is a question of high morality. Have we, the members of this Parliament and this generation, got the moral right to commit an act, namely to allow our uranium to be sold and enriched which may affect future generations, according to the Fox report? As far as I can see that is what we are debating. 
I would like to disagree with my close friend, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  when he described the Labor Party policy. I am not defending the Labor Party; I am just saying that the honourable member for the Northern Territory said that the policy of the Labor Party is that there will be no export of uranium. As far as I could understand him, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  today did not say anything of the kind. Nor did the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who is the Opposition spokesman on this issue. I personally wish that they had said that. I wish that some political party would come out with that view- no export of uranium until we can answer the points made in the Fox report. Is there any way in which we can control the low level and high level wastes? I have- been debating that point around the country with some very distinguished people who have expressed views both for and against the proposition. I deplore the statement made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  when he said that the debate has been continuing, deplorable though the state of the debate may be. I will come back to that point in a moment. 
On every occasion that I have appeared on a platform- I have been on them with distinguished scientists who have spoken in favour of mining uranium- I simply say: 'Do you have an answer to that section of the Fox report which says that there is at present no generally accepted means by which high level wastes can be permanently isolated from the environment?' The high level wastes cause cancer, may cause gene mutations in future generations and last for 500 000 years. My point is simple: I am not necessarily against the use of nuclear energy. I am not necessarily against the selling of uranium. But what I am against is the mining and selling of it by Australia- in fact, by anybody-until science can tell us that we are not going to commit future generations to cancer or possible gene mutations. That, to me, is the crux of the argument. 
I have heard nothing from Government speakers or from Labor Party speakers to change my mind. The Labor Party talked about honouring contracts. In doing so they take up that position which I am taking up. As far as I am concerned, I am the only member of this Parliament who is prepared to say: 'No mining of uranium, no export of uranium, until the scientists can give us some sort of guarantee of controlling all the wastes, some guarantee in relation to the nonproliferation treaty, and so on '. 
The honourable member for Blaxland said that the Labor Party, if it comes to office will not honour any contracts without national consensus. I was most interested in that statement. Neither the honourable member for Blaxland nor the Leader of the Opposition went on to say how the Labor Party would get that consensus. But I am indebted to my friend, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who tells me that a friend of his, a  Mr Des  Shield, in Hobart put this suggestion to him: Why does not the Government hand out a small booklet which puts the pros and cons of the uranium debate? Why does it not spend as much money on such a booklet and disseminating it to the people- such a booklet would carry the 'yes' case and the 'no' case- as we spend on issues which are of far less importance than that of uranium? It is a suggestion which my friend from Denison gave me and which I pass on to the Minister and to the Government. If we are prepared to spend millions of dollars on booklets about the retiring ages of judges or simultaneous elections, important issues though they may be, why cannot we spend similar amounts on the uranium question? I do not think there is a person in this House who would think that the question of uranium which we are discussing today is not more important than those other matters. I think that the suggestion I have outlined is one well worthy of consideration. 
The Minister suggests that the Fox report is freely available. The fact is that it is not freely available. Countless people have come to me saying that they have been to the places where the Department told them they could get a copy and that they just cannot get one. As I have said before this question is the most important one that this House has ever debated. We have had only 2 hours debate on it on a previous occasion. The debate was then adjourned, although I was given an undertaking by the Leader of the House on the night on which the debate took place that a vote would be taken on it that night. I then moved a proposed amendment for a moratorium of 2 years. I was in the House. At half past ten, as you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the House automatically proceeds to the adjournment motion. On the undertaking given to me by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  I was prepared to vote. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  talked out time on that night and the matter was automatically adjourned and did not reappear. 
I feel a gross discourtesy was paid to me that night. But that is not important; what is important is that obviously there was an arrangement between the Liberal Party, the National Country Party and the Australian Labor Party on that night to get that debate off the agenda. There must have been, because I was told that there would be a vote. After the Parliament was prorogued the matter did not even appear on the notice paper. I am indebted to the Leader of the House and to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who is at the table. He gave notice that the matter would be reintroduced. I now give informal notice that when it is, if given the opportunity, I shall test the members of this House by moving an amendment to the motion before the chair that there be a moratorium on mining and milling Australian uranium. The House will soon go into recess. The Ranger report No. 2 will come out in the recess, as I understand it. I hope the Minister will stick to his word by not making a decision until that Report comes down. But that means that a decision could be made by the Government during the recess. I warn those listening to the debate who wish to contact their members of Parliament to give their views on this matter that time is running out. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank you for your call. In saying that, the problems involved in the calling of an Independent member of this House have not yet been resolved, but, because of arrangements that have been made, I thank you for your call. I have spoken twice on the subject of uranium. Therefore I realise that for me to use up any time tonight would be selfish because there are so many honourable members on the list who want to speak. My views are well known. They have been stated twice in this House and published in the newspapers. Therefore my aim tonight is to do 2 things: Firstly, to commend and thank the Government for honouring its promise to bring back this motion for parliamentary debate; and secondly, to test the House by moving an amendment which I will try, by using all the forms of the House, to press to a vote. Therefore, after moving the amendment I will simply sit down and hope that some honourable member seconds it so that the amendment will appear on the notice paper and honourable members will be given an opportunity to vote on it. My amendment is almost identical to the amendment I moved to the motion that was on the notice paper before the Parliament was prorogued. I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and that the House is of the opinion that there should be a moratorium of at least 2 years on the mining and exporting of uranium as mentioned in the Fox report to allow sufficient time for public debate as recommended by the Fox report and for further research into the risks involved and possible future energy sources '. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns the extensive headlines appearing in this morning's national Press which resulted from his skilful and vigorous attacks on  Mr Hawke  at question time yesterday. In view of the fact that the only hope of implementing a price-wage freeze is by gaining the co-operation of the trade unions, and because of the fact that  Mr Hawke,  whatever his political colour or motives were, was at that time trying to mediate in the crippling Victorian petrol crisis, can the Prime Minister tell me in all seriousness why he chose yesterday to make his attacks and how those attacks will help to bring about closer relations between the Government and the trade union movement? 
-I ask a question of the Prime Minister on the funding of political parties. Will he consider either appointing a joint select committee of this Parliament to report to this Parliament on the desirability of introducing legislation to require political parties to declare to the Parliament each year donations over a certain amount, or alternatively appointing a high level committee outside the Parliament to report to the Parliament on the desirability of legislation being introduced for the election expenses of all parties to be limited to a certain amount and for those amounts to be appropriated by the Parliament, as is done in the United States of America? 
I thank the House for giving me the opportunity to speak for the fourth time on this question. I was not going to rise because I did not want to preclude anybody else from speaking but I understand that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government have provided ample time for the debate today and tonight. For that I am personally grateful. I have heard every speech so far in this debate and I believe it is probably one of the best debates of its kind that have been conducted in this Parliament for many years. There has been very little attempt at political point scoring. I have vigorously disagreed with some of the arguments and agreed with others. But I think that is the sort of place this ought to be, where we can have that disagreement and vigorous attack on policies rather than on personalities. An amendment in my name is before the House on this question. It reads: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and that the House is of the opinion that there should be a moratorium of at least 2 years on the mining and exporting of uranium, as mentioned in the Fox Report, to allow sufficient time for public debate, as recommended by the Fox Report, and for further research into the risks involved and possible future energy sources. 
I shall certainly not be calling for a division on that amendment because of the obvious positions of the 2 political sides. I have not heard any member of the Liberal or National Country Parties agree with that amendment. Therefore one would hardly be hopeful of support for the amendment from those quarters. The Australian Labor Party, because of its structure, as I understand it, has a policy on the mining of uranium which would preclude any parliamentary members of the Labor Party from now voting for such an amendment, although by the speeches one hears from members of the Labor Party there is obviously a great number of them- perhaps half or more- who would not only agree with the thrust of my amendment but who would want to go a lot further. If I called for a division I would only be grandstanding and would embarrass terribly the seconder of my amendment. There is no point to that at all so I shall not be calling for a division on it. My stance on this question is well known. I am not against the mining, milling or selling of uranium. I am not against nuclear energy being used in the world; what I am against is its being used now and our uranium being sold until the proper safeguards and control of wastes have been demonstrated to us by scientists and by the technologists, and until proper control and regulation can take place. I am not persuaded that we have been so told by the experts. At the risk of being tedious I want to read into the record of this debate some extracts from the first Fox report. On page 1 85 it states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. 
That is a categoric, unequivocal and unambiguous sentence. That, in any report, ought to make every member of the House regard this as a serious matter, as I am sure every member of the House does. I shall deal with safeguards in a moment. On page 25 the report states: 
Nineteen countries - 
This applied when the report was written; there are more now-  have nuclear power stations operating at 3 1 December 1 975. Another seven had power reactors under construction. Another six have them on order. 
These figures are now out of date. All the numbers mentioned have been increased. I do not want unnecessarily to give offence to any country with which Australia enjoys friendly relations. Looking at some of those countries that have nuclear reactors on order and considering that they are going to have the facility of a nuclear reactor are enough to make any honourable member's hair curl in view of the calibre of government and morality in those countries. 
It is also interesting to look at some of the types of nuclear reactors some of these haircurling countries have on order. As I understand it- I do not completely understand the situation because it is a technical matter- there are basically 2 types of reactor that a country can use. One is an American reactor which is light, which performs the function of creating electricity or energy but from which it is difficult or impossible to make a nuclear bomb. There is a heavier reactor, made in Canada and other countries, which is more expensive, more efficient, less economic but nevertheless has the capacity of making a nuclear weapon. It is fascinating to know that none of the hair-curling countries have opted for the non-bomb-producing light reactor; significantly, they have all opted for the other one. If we are going to discuss safeguards, I think it is well to bear in mind that the honourable gentlemen on the Government side who are advocating open slather on uranium might be pure, might be altruistic and might be trusting in this particular area; but, having been a student of international relations for some time, I say that some of those countries do not merit my trust to have the most dangerous weapon in the hands of man ever since man came to this planet. I am not against the use of nuclear energy but I am against its use until the dangers have been solved. 
-I have just explained to the honourable gentleman that for reasons of courtesy, which I would have thought he would be the first person in the world to understand, he being one of the most courteous members of the House, I do not choose to name them, but I shall have a private conversation with the honourable member later if he so chooses. These are the 3 reasons why I have adopted this stance. I agree that the arguments put on the other side of the House today are persuasive and that one must listen to them. But I think that with a thing like this you have to make a decision. You cannot make it go halfway. The answer either has to be yes or no. Do we mine and sell it or do we not? I have come down on the latter side. 
On the dangers of radiation, the Commissioners say at pages 108-9 of the report: 
Apart from rapidly fatal effects (within days) of high doses, the major consequences of radiation are cancer - 
They did not say 'may be cancer'; the major consequences are cancer-  which may occur some years after the individual has been exposed and gene mutations which may appear in subsequent generations. 
That is the one sentence in the report that really bothers me because that makes it not an economic question. That makes it a moral question. The decision we take in this Parliament or the decision that is taken in the Cabinet room is not simply an economic question. It is a moral question, because the consequences of that action, according to the Fox report, are that gene mutations might occur and appear in subsequent generations. I am not an expert on the mutation of genes but as I understand it, some genes, when exposed to radioactivity, can be passively mutated and then passed on to a generation or 2 generations, and 2 generations from now children could be born with the passively mutated gene manifesting itself. Those children could be born with hideous congenital malformations. That is not the honourable member for Hotham saying that because he does not know anything about it; it is the Fox report. The report says that such a suggestion comes from highly expert and highly technical evidence. So uranium is a dangerous substance even to mine. 
I turn now to tailings, the low level wastes which one gets not from making bombs or plutonium but simply from mining uranium. Those wastes contain radioactive materials. According to the Fox report: 
Tailings contain radioactive materials which will remain harmful for over 100 000 years. 
I repeat: 100 000 years. The report goes on to say this disturbing thing at page 9 1 :   . . the Ranger proposal involves storing the tailings behind an engineered dam. A risk with this type of storage is that tailings will escape to the environment if the dam embankment is breached. 
That, to me, is a terrifying concept. The tailings are dangerous; they cause cancer, they may cause gene mutations and they last for over 100 000 years. There is a danger over that period in regard to the type of storage envisaged because there is no guarantee that the material can be contained. But I think page 1 10 is the starkest, clearest page of the whole report. On that page there is this statement: 
There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level waste can be permanently isolated from the environment . . . 
If we combine those 3 points, to me they provide an unanswerable case as to why we should wait until scientists can tell us of a generally acceptable way of containing the dangers and of isolating them from the environment. 
I turn now to the question of safeguards. I am not persuaded as to the safeguards enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 24 May or thereabouts, good though they read on paper. The  Age  classified the situation as ' Fraser announces his eleven commandments'. On paper they look great. On paper, if one were feeling disparaged, one could possibly get some consolation from them and say: 'Well, we are not going to sell our uranium unless we have got those safeguards'. But I ask honourable members to consider this point. We are people in the political field. We have all been overseas. We have all visited other countries. Is there any member of this House who genuinely believes that those safeguards mean anything? Is there any member of this House who believes that the Non-proliferation Treaty is worth the paper it is written on? The Fox report says that it is only an illusion of protection. Has anybody here been to South Africa or Rhodesia? I have not but some honourable members have. We know that the United Nations has a unanimous ban on trade in most items with those countries. Does not the House know that since that ban was imposed trade with Rhodesia has nourished? I think the latest statistics show that it has trebled since the ban was imposed. The almighty buck, the almighty dollar, is the only arbiter in international trade. It is not morality; it is not the selfpreservation of people. It is the dollar that motivates trade. 
I have heard a rumour that the Arabs are not very friendly towards Israel. I have been to Israel twice and have had that rumour confirmed. I was standing in the port of Ailat in the south of Israel only 6 months ago. I was with a very close Israeli friend and I saw a tanker unloading oil at an Israeli port. I said to my friend: 'Where does that tanker come from?'. He said: 'Chipp, mind your own bloody business', and smiled and walked away. I made subsequent inquiries and, of course, it was Arab oil. It was oil straight from the Arab States. If someone wants uranium and that someone will pay a high enough price for it, if someone wants plutonium and is prepared to pay a high enough price for it, there will be some means by which the almighty dollar will be satisfied and that sale will take place. 
On the question of safeguards, we need not have the Fox report. No matter how honourable we might be, no matter how sincere we are in saying that we have these safeguards and therefore we can wash our hands and sell our uranium, I wonder whether there is any member of the House who genuinely believes that these safeguards mean more than the paper they are written on. While Australian uranium remains in the ground we have a tremendously powerful force to exercise in lifting the world on to a safe and sane energy plane. I was disappointed with the speech of my friend, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  whom I admire enormously. If I heard him correctly, he virtually said that there was no hope for solar energy, tidal energy and wind energy in the near future. 
I am sorry if I have misquoted the honourable gentleman. I apologise to him. 
But we know what human nature is. If we have an easily accessible source of nuclear energy we will use it. Man is a lazy creature, an expedient creature, but if he is put to the test his ingenuity is such that he will find another answer. I am saying that we in Australia have a unique opportunity of giving leadership to the world and preventing it going into a hideous plutonium society, the dangers of it are illustrated in both the Flowers' report and the Fox report. Those are my views. I am not against the use of nuclear energy but I am against selling our uranium now. Let us retard nuclear poliferation for as long as we can until we can ensure that there are adequate safeguards, until we can make absolutely sure that the wastes are safe, that they will not cause cancer and gene mutations in future generations and the other hideous dangers inherent in the use of uranium. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs the following question, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
How many refugees from (a) Cyprus, (b) Lebanon, (c) other non-Asian countries and (d) Indo-China has the Government accommodated since 1 3 December 1975. 
Can he say how many refugees from Indo-China the Governments of (a) the United States of America, (b) France, (c) Canada, (d) Belgium, (e) Austria, (f) Britain, (g) West Germany and (h) Switzerland have accommodated respectively. 
I am sorry that again this debate on a very important issue has polarised people so much. The real issues before the House are massive and have a fundamental effect on our country; yet the two major parties in this House seem to have polarised again and their members are trying to score points. I am sorry that this debate cannot be a little bipartisan. I have appreciated most of the speeches which have come from members of the Australian Labor Party. I also appreciated the speech of my friend the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who has just sat down. But why cannot the Labor Party tear itself away for once from the tie and domination which it has from the trade union movement and at least concede that the postal workers in Australia, particularly at Redfern, are behaving outrageously? Surely it is not too much to ask the Labor Party m this place to disown those people at Refern. All their moderate trade union colleagues with whom I have spoken have told me that the people at Redfern are behaving atrociously, shockingly. They are behaving in a fashion which is detrimental to the trade union movement as a whole. This is playing into the hands of the militants, both on the extreme right and on the extreme left. We have democratically elected members of the Austraiian Labor Party in Parliament. It would be of no disadvantage to them to say for once that there is a pack of people who are behaving very badly. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide makes what I think is a rather contemptible interjection. He asks: 'Why do you not run your party and we will run ours? 
I am not talking about his party. I am talking about his conduct in the House as a democratically elected person. His party should not be championing people he knows to be misbehaving in this way. 
-This is the first time I have ever risen in this House reluctantly. I rose for one reason and that is because the members of this House are playing a pathetic game with the most serious subject debated in this House since Federation. What is happening reminds me of the game 'Drop the Hanky' played by children. Neither political party wants to provide the second last  speaker  in this debate. I would have thought,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it is pathetic for members of this House to behave in that way. 
I would like to put certain things on record. I wanted to speak earlier in this debate but representations were made to me. I said that already I had had more than a fair go on the uranium question. I think I have spoken four times. I said I would forgo my place in this debate because my position is well known. I understood from the Government side that the Government wanted a vote on this matter tonight and I was prepared to forgo my place. This is worth putting on the record for the benefit of students of the way in which this Parliament behaves. I hope I do not do either the Government Whip or the Opposition Whip any injustice. At 10.10 p.m. tonight the Government Whip approached me and said: 'Oh, you are not speaking.' I said: 'Yes I am'. He said: 'I heard that you were not speaking. We were hoping to have a vote this evening.' I said to him: 'If you want to have a vote this evening I am prepared not to speak.' 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Bendigo will resume his seat. There is no substance to the point of order he raised. However I would suggest to the honourable member for Hotham that if he desires to speak in this debate he should address his remarks to the statements on uranium which are before the House. 
-I would have thought,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that as the guardian of the rights of members of this House you would have accepted debate on the performance of the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, on notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister able to say whether, because of the increased workload associated with the national heroin problem and the Government's policy on staff ceilings, the officer in charge of the Narcotic Drug Analysis Group within the Australian Government Analytical Laboratory, which was established during my term as Minister for Customs and 
Excise and which was to function as an integral part of the Commonwealth Narcotics Bureau with the officer in charge directly responsible to the Government Analyst for technical supervision and to the head of the Narcotics Bureau for the work to be undertaken, considered it vital to transfer a chemist in the group 's Melbourne section to Sydney. 
If so, did the Government Analyst agree to this transfer in January 1977. 
Has the Public Service Board refused to approve the transfer; if so, what was the reason for the refusal and will the Minister ask the Public Service Board to re-examine the case in view of the serious effect the refusal is having on the work of the Narcotics Bureau in tracing heroin imports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, on notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Was the Narcotics Drug Research Group within the Australian Government Analytical Laboratory established during my term as Minister for Customs and Excise. 
Was the officer in charge of the Group directly responsible to the Australian Government Analyst to be located in Canberra, and was the Group formed to carry out research into Drugs of Abuse, to give high level support to the Commonwealth Narcotics Bureau, and to be the Australian focus for international co-operation in scientific aspects of the control of drugs of abuse. 
Was an agreement entered into with the United States under the provisions of the United States-Australia Science Co-operation Agreement. 
Does the Group still exist. 
If so, is it located in Canberra; if not, where is it located. 
Is the officer in charge of the Group still directly responsible to the Government Analyst; if not, who is his immediate superior officer. 
Is the Group still working totally on drugs of abuse; if not, what work is it now doing. 
Did a member of the Group,  Mr R.  Barrett, go to the United Kingdom for one year on a Public Service Board scholarship to learn the technique of mass-spectrometry with particular application to marijuana. 
Was a mass-spectrometer purchased by AG.A.L. if so when. 
Is  Mr Barrett  working on marijuana; if not, what work is he doing. 
Did  Dr C.  Dahl, the leader of the Group, go to a United Nations meeting on marijuana in Athens. 
12) If so, is  Dr Dahl  still working on the problems that he discussed in Athens; if not, what work is he doing. 
Is the work under the Science Co-operation Agreement with the United States still being actively pursued. 
Did the Australian Government Analyst lead a delegation to the United States in 1974 under the terms of the Agreement. 
If so, have there been any similar meetings since 1974. 
16) If no meetings have been held since 1974 is another meeting planned, if so, when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, on notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian Government Analyst did not present evidence on behalf of the Department of Science to the Ranger Inquiry, as stated on page 11438 of the transcript. 
Is it also a fact that the Minister was instructed not to present a submission to the Inquiry; if so, why. 
Does the Government envisage a role for the Government Analyst in monitoring the waste disposal from the Ranger site similar to his role in Tasmania in connection with the disposal of jarosite from the E.Z. Industries works. 
-I am grateful to my friend the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and other honourable members who have conspired to give me five or six minutes in which to speak in this debate. I voted with the Labor Party this morning against this Bill being declared an urgent Bill. Having been  chairman  of the Government Members Industrial Relations Committee on, I think, three occasions I can say, and I think I would find some agreement, that there is no more complex piece of legislation on the statute books than the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It contains 122 pages of legislation of the most complex character. Today we are being asked, as a parliament, in just a few hours, to add another 28 pages of very complex amendments. 
I compliment the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  as did the honourable member for Murray. The Minister has been tolerant. He has canvassed these amendments, as far as we know, with responsible people but the fact is that this Parliament received this Bill only last evening. I understand that its printing was rushed through during the suspension for dinner. I simply ask the Parliament this question: Does everybody understand every implication of these 28 pages of amendments to the most complex piece of legislation on the statute book? Without being offensive I would say to every member of the Liberal Party and every member of the National Country Party that they do not understand everything that this Bill does to the Act. Therefore on principle, as a protest- and this is the third time I have done this- I am not going to vote with the Government to carry this Bill because I think it is a farce and that it renders this Parliament a farce if members of this Parliament are asked to vote on something which they do not completely understand, particularly something as important as conciliation and arbitration which can affect every citizen in the country. 
Having said that, on my quick reading of the amending Bill I would say that there is a great deal in it to be commended. If I gave it proper consideration I probably would find myself voting for it or for most of it. Like the honourable member for Murray I believe that the amendments giving conscientious objectors fuller rights is sound and represents justice. I entirely agree with the amendments to section 142a relating to deregistration. I agree with the accounting provisions. More strongly than anything else I agree with the protection for self-employed persons. I know of a scandal which is now occurring in at least one State. In South Australia a person who runs, I think, an excavating company has invested his capital and his health in that business and cannot get a job contracting for the 
State Housing Trust unless he is a member of a trade union. Therefore I would support a clause to cover that sort of thing in this legislation. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I very briefly want to refer to the Latrobe Valley. The Minister did not refer to the Latrobe Valley in his second reading speech. I cannot see anything in this Bill which is going to assist the Latrobe Valley situation in any way. Therefore I wonder why this Bill is being rushed in in this way at this time if it is not simply for electioneering purposes. I believe this is an incredibly cynical use of this Parliament. It is a cynical use of the hundreds of thousands of decent people in the trade union movement. I have an enormous amount of sympathy for the people who are striking in the Latrobe Valley. I ask members of the Liberal Party and members of the National Country Party to consider this point: Thousands of men and women- I mention the women because the men have to be backed by their women- do not go out on strike for nine weeks over an issue in which there is no justice. There is justice in their claim. However I believe it has been very badly handled by the people concerned. 
I was surprised and disappointed at the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I was challenged last week by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  to say where I stand on this issue. As far as I am concerned, if people are in a system where an umpire's decision is to be referred to and they accept the benefits of that system they should abide by the decision. In the present situation we have had a Full Bench make a decision. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said that he thinks the Commission was wrong. Whether I believe the Commission was wrong, as I do, I think that the only solution is to abide by the umpire's decision. Let me warn the Government that sending troops in will not solve this dispute. Sending scab labour in will not solve this dispute; it will exacerbate it. 
The only way in which it can be solved is by conciliation. There are decent men in the Trades Hall Council in Victoria and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions already negotiating. I believe the only solution to this dispute will be found in the discussions which are now taking place between those people, the State Electricity Commission and the Victorian Government. 
I have been saying for years that one of the things that cause disputes such as we now have is the leapfrogging techniques that have been adopted. The men in the Latrobe Valley have been disadvantaged- and this has been pointed out by other speakers on this side of the Housebecause there are too many unions in that area. The unions have adopted an ad hoc approach in which one union gets a benefit and the other unions do not. An impediment to the long term solution of disputes of this type is the number of unions in the country. Germany, which has a population of 80 million people, has IS trade unions Australia, with a population of 13 million people, has over 311 trade unions. There are very few employer organisations in Germany. Australia has over 2,500 employer organisations. Each is playing the other on a break. 
Before I resume my seat I plead with the Federal Government and the Victorian Government to treat this dispute as a delicate human situation. For God's sake, do not send troops in, do not send scabs in at this stage; otherwise there will be a conflagration, the like of which in the industrial sphere this country has never seen before. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report appearing in the  Melbourne Age  of 27 April 1977 that the Government has arbitrarily agreed to cut clothing and textile exports by 40 per cent. If so, is the report accurate. 
Did the Government announce in February 1977 that it accepted the Industries Assistance Commission report on clothing quotas on a 1 2-monthly basis. 
) If so, should a reversal of such a decision be made only after another IAC inquiry. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question about one of the few subjects on which he and I are in total agreement- that speculation about election dates is damaging the economy and halting economic recovery. By way of short preface, may I say that this view is shared by hundreds of primary producers and small business people whom I have met during the last four days in Sydney and elsewhere in New South Wales. I ask: Will the Prime Minister stop playing games with the Australian people and now state the date of the next election? 

 - Mr President, on behalf of the Australian Democrats I extend to you our very sincere congratulations and my personal congratulations, if I may. You and I have enjoyed a personal friendship since the halcyon days of 1 966 when we went to a wine festival in South Australia together. That friendship has been maintained, and I have admired the way in which you have conducted this chamber.  Senator Mason  and I will be giving you every form of assistance to uphold and maintain the decorum and dignity of which this chamber is justly proud. We will make mistakes because one of us is an enthusiastic amateur and the other is a hardened professional who is still ignorant in the rather mysterious ways of the Senate. We give you our congratulations and good wishes. 
I seek leave to make a statement concerning the leadership of the Australian Democrats in the Senate. 
Leave granted. 
-I advise the Senate that I have had the honour to be elected parliamentary leader of the Australian Democrats and that  Senator Colin  Mason has been elected my  Deputy  Leader. 
I wish to associate the Australian Democrats with this motion of condolence on the death of Pope Paul VI. We express our sympathy to Catholics both in Australia and throughout the world. As spiritual leader of 700 million Catholics during a most turbulent period Pope Paul's burden was a heavy one, but he never tried to conceal the mental anguish which his responsibilities brought him. The Pope reacted with personal grief to wars and conflicts such as those in Vietnam, the Middle East and Northern Ireland. He was always ready to use his considerable moral influence in the cause of peace, both in public statements and in private diplomacy.  His  major pronouncement on the development of peoples gave strong leadership on development and social justice in the Third World. 
This gave a new emphasis to the Christian duty of concern for the poor and suffering. It firmly committed Catholics to work for social justice. In Pope Paul's last years he often spoke movingly of old age and death. His personal empathy with the aged and handicapped became more marked. Our best wishes go to the College of Cardinals when the Cardinals meet to choose his successor, who will inherit such an awesome and responsible task. 

 - Mr President, this is the fourth time in the past two days that you have been gracious enough to call me, and I thank you for that. As this is the fourth time on which I have been on my feet I ask the Senate to abandon its traditional courtesies in assuming that  I  am yet to make my maiden speech. In fact I feel incredibly nervous when I know that interjections are out of order, and I ask the Senate to abandon that traditional practice. 
I say without being patronising that I have appreciated enormously the debate that has taken place this afternoon and the lack of acrimony in it. There has been no point scoring. If I may say so, it has been a debate which has been much more reasoned and much more reasonable than debates in the other place of which I was a member for 16 years. The speech just made by  Senator Chaney  summed it all up. This has been a magnificent debate. Everyone who has contributed to it has informed me and has given me a better understanding of the problem. 
I rise very briefly because I understand I have about six minutes before the time for the debate runs out. I say at this stage with some reluctance, having heard what  Senator Chaney  and Government senators have had to say, that I very strongly support what the Labor Party has put in this debate, namely, that action is now required. I commend the Federal Government for its patience. I commend the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for his strength and yet for his patience. I commend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  for his continued restraint in handling this incredibly difficult problem. I sympathise with the Labor Party in the inherent features of its matter of public importance- I know that the Labor Party realises that- and the incredibly important precedent that would be created in terms of compensation if we compulsorily resumed these lands. I know that my friends in the Labor Party recognise that. 
However, notwithstanding that, I believe that at this stage patience and restraint have been used to such an extent that they are now being misinterpreted as weakness by that strange man who governs Queensland. There are some people in the world who are like that. One shows them tolerance, compassion and restraint and it is totally misrepresented as being weakness. Such people then trample over one and everything in one's wake. Sometimes I think that I am a student of human nature, but for the life of me I cannot understand that man who governs Queensland. If in this instance he was fighting the communists, if the communists were at Aurukun and Mornington Island, I could understand it. If he was fighting, as  Senator Bonner  said, pinkies or drug addicts or agnostics or somebody else I could understand his intractable attitude. But he is not doing that; he is fighting the Uniting Church in Australia which is a Christian institution of which he says he is a member. I wonder why he is. Nobody has been unkind enough to say today that he is conducting this fight, this intrusion, because of the massive royalties which will come from the lands involved. I wonder what it is. If it is a case of royalties versus human rights, I think that the members of this chamber in this Parliament in Canberra should be the first to rise up and say: 'As far as we are concerned the human rights of those individuals on those settlements are absolutely paramount'. 
I have seen the decimation of a people. In 1 963 1 was fortunate enough to be appointed to a joint select committee which was established to investigate the grievances of Aborigines on the Gove Peninsula. Hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bauxite had been discovered there. These beautiful, primitive people- there were only about 500 of them- had seen and had been exposed to only something like 50 white people in their whole lifetime. They lived absolutely in harmony with nature. Alcohol and the white person 's vices were not known to that community which was living in almost total happiness. We as members of the Labor Party, the Country 
Party and the Liberal Party presented to the Government what I thought was a wonderful report. Then there was an election and that report has been gathering dust ever since. Its recommendations were never implemented. When I go to Gove today I do not see a happy people living in harmony with nature. I see lots of alcohol. I see many of the white people's scourges which have virtually decimated that beautiful race of people. If that is what we are concerned about-- 
I thank  Senator Chaney  for the interjection. I acknowledge that but, with respect, it does not invalidate the point that because we did not look after them, because we allowed them to become exposed in their naked unprepared state to these ravages, that happened. There are people in a similar condition here. All of us in this place make flowery speeches and proper speeches about the decimation by a madman, of human beings in Uganda, but we do not need overt acts or acts of commission to decimate a people; people can be decimated by acts of omission. In regard to Aurukun and Mornington, that is why I have reluctantly come to the view that we have shown this man enough patience. The people at Aurukun and Mornington are looking to us to intervene. That is why the Australian Democrats have taken a vote on this question. We support the point of view put by the Labor Party. 
In conclusion I say to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that he has been patient. I believe he has done his best to try to find a solution to what looks like an intractable problem. I am very proud to say that a person of the Aboriginal race who is an Australian Democrat is in Canberra at this moment acting on behalf of the Aurukun Shire Council. He has been trying for two days to arrange an appointment with the Minister for the Aurukun Shire Council to come to Canberra and to discuss their grievances with him. He has not been successful. The last thing I am doing now is making a point against the Minister. Goodness knows he has had enough on his mind this week and in previous weeks. 1 plead with the Minister from this seat in the Senate to find time to see these people, to talk about their problems and to learn first hand of the massive problems that they have. If no further action is contemplated by this Federal Parliament, the decimation of a race of people is not impossible. 
The Australian Democrats support the thrust of the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill. Many of the speeches have been directed towards unemployment. I will not refer to that matter because my colleague,  Senator Mason,  in his maiden speech, referred to the way the Australian Democrats feel about unemployment. We regard this Bill as a rather technical measure to restructure the Commonwealth Employment Service consequent upon the report of the Norgard inquiry. We generally support the Bill, as  Senator Missen  did, but we express some misgivings along the lines that he expressed. I agree almost entirely with what  Senator Missen  said, but I am disappointed that he did not give notice of some amendment. Had he given notice of an amendment for the protection of private enterprise in this sector, he would have had the immediate support of the Australian Democrats. That is indicative of the frustration one feels in this Parliament. It is a small disappointment to me today in my first nitty-gritty debate in this Senate to find that even if  Senator Missen  had moved an amendment to clause 6 (a) of the Bill, which to my mind gives unfair advantage to a government enterprise vis-a-vis private enterprise, he would have received little support from the Australian Labor Party. One would have found  Senator Missen  and the Australian Democrats, as three members out of a total of 64 members in the Senate, supporting that amendment. I sympathise with  Senator Missen  when he says that he supports the Bill but gives the Government some warning on this issue. 
Let me reiterate, perhaps in a different way, the arguments advanced by  Senator Missen.  What concerns the Democrats in this Bill is clause 6 (a), which appears harmless but actually states that one of the functions 'of the Commonwealth Employment Service is to assist persons seeking employment'. That is fine, we are 100 per cent in agreement with that. What we query are the words 'or a change of employment to obtain suitable positions'. That is a strange sort of phrase for a Liberal Government to be writing into a Bill. 
We of the Australian Democrats Party are totally in favour of competition. We are champions of free enterprise. We believe that the best form of competition is between public enterprise and private enterprise because we do not entirely trust monopolistic private enterprises. We believe that the only true way to keep private enterprise honest is to have it compete fairly with public enterprise. That is why I think Australia has the best domestic airlines system in the world. Most honourable senators have travelled in most countries and have seen the incredible situation in a country like New Zealand where there is a government-owned monopolistic airline that is so inefficient, so rude and so arrogant to its passengers, whereas in Australia if we travel on either Ansett Airlines of Australia or Trans-Australia Airlines we are met with efficiency and the utmost courtesy. One could extend this argument to the banking system. We have true competition in Australia. The Commonwealth Banking Corporation, a government owned bank, is competing with private enterprise banks. We believe that we have one of the most efficient banking systems in the world. 
I am very disappointed that the Government has now ceased the competition in the health fund area. It has disbanded the Government health fund which I would have thought would have kept private health funds honest in true competition. By stating that the Australian Democrats are firmly in favour of competition and that the best form of competition is for the Government to compete with private enterprise- or the other way around- which prevents collusive tendering amongst private enterprise I think I have put our situation. Clause 6(a) represents a serious threat to thousands of people in the management consultant and personnel agencies in Australia who have done a fine job in providing a facility where people, whether of executive or below executive status, want to change jobs. 
If the Liberal Government were to say that it would expand the capacity of the Commonwealth Employment Service to allow people in executive positions to change jobs, we would not object to that. But what sort of madness has gripped the Government? Now where are the Liberals who say that they champion free enterprise but who are allowing a government department in competing with private enterprise to charge no fee? An analogy is that the Government could say: 'Let us have competition' but then allow TAA in competing with Ansett to provide free flights. This is exactly what this Bill does to private enterprise people in the management consultant and personnel selection agencies. I think my analogy is true except that the significance of competition between TAA and Ansett is not as real because there are not hundreds of thousands of employees engaged in management consultancy or personnel agencies. But I think the principle is sound.  Senator Missen  eloquently made the point. 
I am sorry to say,  Mr President,  that this is the first area of frustration I have had since I came into the Senate. Why did not  Senator Missen  move an amendment or give notice of an amendment to clause 6 (a). Has that matter been discussed in the party room? I am sure it has. If it has not been discussed in the Liberal Party room where are the Liberals, those people who champion private enterprise? If an amendment were moved in this place it would be a fascinating amendment to debate. I wonder where the Australian Labor Party would go? Does it really want a monopoly in this area? 
It adds to the tragedy that true Liberals like  Senator Missen  do not stand up and move amendments. I came into this chamber under the possible misapprehension that it was in fact a House of review where honourable senators could make powerful, eloquent and logical speeches as  Senator Missen  has done. However,  Senator Missen  sat down and said that he would support the Bill. That, to me, is a total exercise in a lack of logic, although I admire and respect  Senator Missen  for what he said. Like  Senator Missen,  I too have been furnished with some information on the matter about which I am talking. I shall read from a document from a friend of mine who is in the personnel agency profession. He wrote: 
The Private Placement Industry and the PEO-  that is the Professional Employment Office, a sub branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service for professional people-  have co-existed for many years . . . 
They have no objection to that because they both perform a valuable, separate function. He continued: 
On the one hand the PEO assists unemployed and disadvantaged white-collar or professional persons to find jobs . . . 
Not one member of the Senate would disagree with that. All of us, as senators or members of the House of Representatives, have pity for the healthy 45, 55 or 60 year-old people from whitecollar or professional jobs who have been retrenched and who are seeking employment opportunities but cannot find them. In my experience the CES has performed magnificently in this area. If I make a phone call to the CES, within a week it has some opportunities for the 55 year-old unemployed white-collar worker. My friend continued:   we have no quarrel with that role of the PEO. On the other hand the Private Placement Industry assists Management to locate, interview and screen executives for new and vacant positions where a choice is required to be made available and where the candidates would mostly be employed already and would be seeking promotion to more senior levels. 
Are we- I keep using the collective pronoun as if I were a member of the Liberal Party- or is the Liberal Party saying that the CES is to go into competition with private enterprise in this field and that it will charge no fee, that it will provide this service totally free? I have a respect for  Senator Austin  Lewis. He said that people would soon find out that the private placement agencies were much more efficient than the Government department and that therefore people would not go to the Government department. Those of us who have been in business or politics for any time will know that if we can get a secretary for a company or a senior executive through the Government department without paying any fee, of course we will try that department first of all. To me this Bill represents a real threat to a great number of people who have chanced their arm and have had the guts to risk their capital, their family and income to make Australia better. 
The Australian Democrats are a private enterprise party- not a socialist party- as I thought the Liberal Party was. We have sympathy for those sorts of people. We believe that this Bill lets that sector of the community down. One thing that disturbs the Australian Democrats is that there seems to be less and less regard for the small business person in Australia. There is a low regard for free enterprise in terms of trans-national companies or big business. We are devasted to know that in the last two years something like 15,000 small business people have gone bankrupt under the Liberal-National Country Party Government. I think the time has now arrived when it is no longer credible for members of the Liberal Party to blame the former Australian Labor Party Administration for the continued rate of bankruptcy in the small business sector. After all, it employs something like 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the work force. 
I find a remarkable incongruity in this Bill when one reads the Liberal Party credo as contained in the Liberal Party platform. It states: 
It acknowledges the importance of effective competition as a preventive of the defects of monopoly power and as the incentive to creativity and productivity. 
I have spoken many times about the monopoly power of trans-national and multinational companies which is terrible and terrifying. But there is no greater monopoly for a small business person to take on than a Government monopoly. That is why I thought I was a Liberal. I was opposed to government monopolies. There are ways in which one can take on the multinationals- hard though it might be- but a government monopoly is unbeatable because one cannot beat the machine. This Bill virtually gives into the hands of the bureaucrats or some empire builder the opportunity to run out of business almost every management consultant and personnel agency if they choose, simply because they are providing an identical service at no cost. For private enterprise to remain in business it has, of course, to charge some fee. 
-I thank you,  Mr President,  for your indulgence in allowing  Senator Young  to interject and I thank him for his interjection. A positive term is that I have no objection to the Government entering into this field. As I have said, I think it ought to enter in order to keep the private sector honest. What I am saying is that we ought to copy the United Kingdom model, for example, where in cases identical to this a fee is charged by the government department which is in line with the charges levied by private industry. An analogy is that TAA is bound by an Act of this Parliament not to undercut Ansett. I think that system works fantastically well. 
-You do not? 
With great respect, I said before you came in that I think we have the best airline system in the world because of the competition between the public and private sectors. 
In answer to  Senator Young's  interjection, I do believe that it is possible for a minor amendment- not necessarily to this Act but perhaps by regulation- to be made which would force the CES to compete fairly with the private employment agencies. That is all I ask. As a private enterprise person and with great respect to the Public Service, if we make it compete fairly then I would back private enterprise to beat the public sector every time. That is all we ask in this Bill. I have been very tempted to move an amendment but knowing that on this particular occasion we would receive absolutely no support from my friends on my right, and after having heard the powerful speech from  Senator Missen  who is on my left, knowing that this matter has already been canvassed in the Liberal Party and that no one opposite is prepared to move over and support such an amendment, I simply register my objections and my fears during the debate on the second reading of this Bill. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Science, concerns an item in the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  this morning that thallium 201, essential for diagnosing heart disease, can now be produced in Australia at the Australian National University. Is it true that the ANU can produce this substance at between $5 and $20 per dose as against the imported price of $100 per dose? Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission refused to back this project which could save Australia up to $ 1 m per year in terms of balance of payments? If it has refused to back the project, can I ask the Minister why? 
I commend the Australian Labor Party for bringing forward this extremely important issue as a matter of public importance. I am grateful for an opportunity to speak briefly on it. I have listened carefully to the debate, and I was rather disappointed with the speech of  Senator Carrick.  There was not very much with which I disagreed in terms of accuracy, but I wonder whether what happened in 1 972 or 1 973 or what the Labor Party did or did not do while in office is in any way applicable to this very serious problem we have today. We have a building industry running at approximately 40 per cent under capacity. We have the incredibly stupid situation in a so-called civilised country of hundreds of thousands of young couples wanting to build homes, with thousands of men and women who can build homes unemployed or being diverted to other industries, and all we can do is to go back to 1972 or 1973 to what the Labor Government did. So far as I can see, whilst that point might read well in  Hansard,  it does not make any contribution to the problem before the Senate today. 
There is no question that the building industry is at a crisis stage. The Australian Bureau of Statistics recently announced that last year we had the lowest rate of commencements in home building since 1966-67. The rate of commencements last year was the lowest for 10 years. I would like to cite figures from the Shrapnel report, one of the most respectable economic analyses that come out monthly. In its May report on the home building industry the Shrapnel report gave the frightening figures that dwelling commencements in the 12 months to last December were 10 per cent down on the figure for the previous year. In Victoria, the State I represent here, private dwellings approved at the end of May 1978- that is just a few months ago- were 23.4 per cent down on the figure for the year before. I would have thought that those figures alone would give some cause for worry. I am obliged to refer to a letter I received from Brick and Pipe Industries Ltd, which is probably the biggest supplier to the home building industry in Australia, giving figures of men employed in the industry in the last three years. In 1 975 the firm employed 1,725 men in the production of clay bricks, clay sewerage pipes and clay roofing tiles and in sand excavation. Today it employs 966 men, which is almost half the number of human beings employed in that industry in Victoria. 
I commend the Australian Labor Party for bringing on this matter today, but I wish that while its members are performing a service like this they would also use whatever influence they have over the trade unions with whom they are clearly identified. For example, the building industry in South Australia is probably the most devastated in the country. Yet the Australian Workers Union, not a militant left wing commo union but a very responsible union, has now made the most absurd log of claims on the home building industry in South Australia which, I am told, will virtually bring it to its knees. I wish the Labor Party would have a word to people like Don Dunstan. 
I concede the point,  Senator Georges,  but I would have thought that at a time in South Australia when the industry is on its knees, consultation between the two- employers and employees- and not an absurd log of claims was the way to solve a dispute. I also wish that the Labor Party would have a word to its very popular Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  who has acceded, I understand, to the wishes of the trade unions which want to get their sticky fingers into the home building industry. To my knowledge, South Australia is the only State where subcontractors are virtually forced to join a trade union. That would seem to have the blessing of the State Labor Government. I would have thought that a responsible Premier like  Mr Dunstan  would see the dangers in that course of action. 
I commend the Government for its attack on inflation, but it seems to me that there has been an obsession to reduce inflation at all costs. A massive sociological cost is now being paid by young people in the community as a result of this madness of the monetarists who seem to have influenced the Government into believing that the only goal in sight is to reduce inflation, with no worry as to the cost. I divert for just one moment for the benefit of those who use the term dole bludger' too often. Recently I advertised for a research officer. As honourable senators know, the salary is not the greatest in the world- I think it is $8,900 or something like that. I had 75 young people apply for that position, all of whom had degrees, all of whom were young and all of whom had been applying twice a week for the last six to nine months for a job. What are we doing to these young people? As parents we are trying to act responsibly and are saying: Look, do not leave school at 15 and wash bottles in a factory. Sacrifice and try to help yourself and the community by doing some sort of study after you leave school'. They have accepted our advice, but what have they got in return? They now have the feeling that society has betrayed them. 
I wonder whether one of the reasons for the lack of building approvals is that the fashion of wanting to own one's own home, which is something which I think sent a strand of greatness through the Australian nation is now going out of fashion. Young people feel that their governments and their politicians have betrayed them and are doing nothing about it. I would agree with the Government that deficit financing cannot be carried on responsibly forever; clearly the country will go broke. But what is happening with the present economic policies of the Government? The Government came to office on the basis of the assertion: 'We are better than the Labor Party; we are sound economic managers'. The Liberal or conservative side of politics in 
Australian history has shown that record, but last year the Government was $ 1,000m out in its budgeting. 
-The deficit fifty per cent more than it estimated; and it will be $ 1,000m out this year. The reason it was out last year is that it overestimated receipts because its policies are turning down the economy, which means that fewer and fewer people are paying tax and, secondly, its policies - 
-I really hope that the honourable senator does not believe that. On the other side of the equation, so many people were thrown out of work that they were not paying taxes but were receiving unemployment benefit. That is the main reason why the Budget was $ 1,000m out. 
-If it is crazy,  Mr Deputy President,  I look forward with relish to the honourable senator, when he rises, telling me why the Budget was $ 1,000m out and whether that is sound economic management. The Government's obsession in reducing the deficit is being pursued at massive cost to human beings. The economic theory of the monetarists, the quantity of money theory, which is still to some extent valid in our time, applies when demand equals supply. Can any honourable senator here today tell me of any industry in which the demand for goods and services equals the supply? Manufacturing industry is working 30 per cent under capacity, the building industry is working 40 per cent under capacity, and six per cent of our human resources is unemployed. 
What I am putting to the Government is that a lot of leeway can be made up by the stimulation of industry. What we in the Australian Democrats have been saying for 1 2 or 1 8 months is that the home building industry is the classic industry to stimulate for this reason: It is notoriously quick to respond to stimulus; after the injection of money at the right interest rates, it responds very quickly. No trade unions involved in the home building industry are like those associated with commercial building, where the Gallaghers and other people put their sticky fingers in all the time. The home building industry is essentially an industry of subcontractors. So there would be no problems in that regard. If the home building industry is stimulated, every supply industry is immediately stimulated. Shopping centres in areas where home building is being stimulated get a lift. Furniture, furnishings and a whole range of other industries, all of which are labour intensive, are stimulated. We believe that the home building industry must be stimulated. Our policy and this matter of public importance which has been raised by the Labor Party today were vindicated in February this year when the Victorian Premier made available $25m at  Vh  per cent interest - 
That is the point that I am getting at; the interest rate has to be subsidised. That amount of $25m was taken up in five days. We praised the move at the time. It indicates the tremendous demand for housing which today cannot be met. Most of that amount was spent on simply buying up stock homes- homes that had already been built on spec or whatever the term is- and therefore it did not lift the building industry per se. What we are advocating is that a large sum of money should be injected each month through the private sector into the home building industry at a reduced rate of interest. Let me illustrate that. This Budget allows the banks to expand their activities in financing home building. In my view, that will not make one bit of difference. 
The Housing Industry Association has given me the following figures. For a young couple today to contemplate building a 1016 square house- that is not a big house- in Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide, it would cost them a minimum of $60 to $65 a week in loan repayments and interest. In this situation we would use the 4: 1 ratio; that is, a young couple could afford one quarter of gross weekly earnings to pay rent or make repayments of loan principal and interest. That would mean that their average weekly earnings would have to be between $240 and $260 a week. We know that average weekly earnings are $205 or $210 a week. That means that hundreds of thousands of young Australians are disqualified from even contemplating building a home. The Minister,  Senator Carrick,  gave excellent figures to show what a one per cent drop in the interest rate would mean in repayments of principal and interest. What we are advocating is that funds should be invested in the building industry at a subsidised interest rate of at least two per cent so that young couples can contemplate taking on the responsibility of making the repayments. I am told that it cannot be done. It has been done with war service home loans for the last 50 or 60 years. It is done under the Commonwealth-State housing agreement through permanent building societies. It is done constantly with devastatingly successful results in the terminating building societies. It is done; it is being done. I am not persuaded by the argument that interest rates cannot be subsidised. 
Another criticism of our policy is that it would increase the deficit and that the deficit cannot be increased at this stage. I have figures that indicate that if $40m a month was injected into the housing industry, after the lapse of three or four months, because of the repayment of principal, interest, increased taxes, the addition to gross domestic product using the multiplier effect, the Federal Government would receive $48m a month for that outlay of $40m a month. I do not have time to elaborate on those figures. Even the argument that the injection of money into the home building industry will increase the deficit, and therefore is irresponsible, falls to the ground. 
In conclusion, I suggest that the Budget for this year will be out by as much as it was last year. I plead with the Government to introduce selective stimulation to the economy, which is essential for it to move again not only from the humanitarian aspect but also from a sound economic point of view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
Will the Federal Government use its power under the 1967 constitutional amendment to take over the administration and funding of the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal Communities, in view of: (a) the government's previous undertaking that the two communities should become self-managing, and that no solution to the management dispute would be imposed if unacceptable to the communities; and (b) the communities' clearly expressed rejection of the present arrangements, and the Queensland government's failure to provide genuine self-management. 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and broadcasting tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Radio Station 3CR, Melbourne 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Was a recent survey conducted into educational needs in Central Australia by the Alice Springs Community College; if so, does this show strong demand for a wide range of post-compulsory education facilities almost totally lacking in Central Australia. 
Does the Five Year Development Program proposed by the College represent a significant attempt to remedy the educational disadvantages suffered by people in isolated areas of Central Australia in Aboriginal Education, Vocational Training, Continuing Education and Community Development. 
Will the Minister support the establishment of an independent Community College of Central Australia as recommended by the Northern Territory Further Education Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) Is there dissatisfaction in the insurance industry over the current method of financing fire brigade services, by which 75 per cent of the cost of such services is met by a levy on insurance policy holders. 
Will the Federal Government undertake to provide the requisite extra funds to the State governments if they agree to end this inequitable system by which one section of the community pays for a service available to all. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
Is the Insurance Brokers' Council of Australia seriously concerned about government delay in taking any action to regulate the conduct of insurance brokers. 
Does the Government intend to proceed with legislation, either of the self-regulatory type proposed by the Insurance Brokers' Council of Australia in a letter to the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer, on 25 July 1 977, or of any other type; if so, when will the legislation, or any other action, be announced. 
I present the following petition from 67 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1 979. 
Restoration of the S8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
All of us, either subconsciously or consciously, at times play the game of association of ideas. When I was contemplating what I might say about the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill, which is essentially for the aged, the frightening thought came to me that perhaps 1 am the longest serving parliamentarian in this chamber. But, to my great relief, I found that that was not my honour. That honour goes to  Senator O  'Byrne. I run second. Otherwise I might have felt obliged to disclose a vested interest when speaking to this Bill. This Bill has only five clauses, most of which deal with the title or technical matters. What it does not refer to- I will come to what it says in a moment- is the incredibly generous treatment that this Budget provides in the way of home care services. 
I would concede what  Senator Missen  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  -in her second reading speech- say about the benefits that it confers on elderly, and not so elderly, people who need home care services. But that is not what we are talking about tonight. We are talking about this simple Bill. It looks relatively harmless, but the Australian Democrats do not believe that it is harmless. We believe that it is a very inhumane and silly Bill. Therefore, we could not possibly support it and will be voting with the Opposition on it. What it does is to reduce the subsidy that is given to State governments and, because of the flow-on, to local government for home help- for housekeeping and other domestic help in their homes- for the care of frail, elderly and other disadvantaged people. We believe that that is inhumane and silly. 
First, I would like to discuss why we believe it to be inhumane. Its effect, we believe, will be prematurely to force thousands of frail, elderly people- and others not so frail or elderly- into institutions by withdrawing the home help and welfare services which have enabled them to stay in their own homes. We are talking about a great number of human beings. We are talking about 17,000 elderly and infirm people, in Victoria alone, who depend upon these domiciliary services and who, from the number of letters and representations that I, and I am sure every other honourable senator, have received are already deeply distressed and alarmed by the announcement. 
Every organisation and individual who works with the aging is unanimous on one thing. There is much disputation about philosophy and whatever, but I have not met anyone who works with the aging or the frail and who is not unanimous about this one thing. I would go further and say that every honourable senator and every member of the House of Representatives, notwithstanding his political persuasion, is unanimous on this one point, that is, that if you have frail, elderly people you should keep them in their homes as long as you can. There is not in the whole of this national Parliament one voice of disagreement on that. We know that once they are institutionalised, notwithstanding the values of the institution in which they are placed, the process of deterioration is devastating and quick. Every honourable senator has gone into fine institutions where dedicated people are looking after the frail and elderly. All of us have come away feeling saddened that those people have begun the journey to the end of the road. One can see the different appearance, philosophy, and outlook of a frail person in an institution- no matter how good it may be- compared with that of the person who has, even though possibly disabled, remained in his own home. If they can stay in their homes, the castle in which they have grown up, whether the person is a bereaved husband or vice versa, they retain something precious that permits them to maintain their philosophical and intellectual capabilities. We are unanimous on that. 
I will be fascinated to hear from  Senator Baume,  whose views on this I deeply respect. Apparently he is challenging my point that, with the elderly or infirm, it is better to keep them in their homes than it is to institutionalise them- provided they do not need hospital or medical care to an extent which cannot be administered at home. Is that what  Senator Baume  is challenging? 
-I thank  Senator Baume  for his interjection. I am grateful to him for the fair way in which he has qualified the statement. Having said that, I believe that this simple fiveclause Bill will have the opposite effect. It will reduce a subsidy of $2 for $ 1 on certain home services to a subsidy of $1 for $1. That is why I take issue with the speech of the Minister, which obviously was not written by her but on political instructions given to a public servant in another department. I would question the integrity of that procedure, but that is the way our system goes. The speech is not dishonest but, I suggest with great respect, lacks honesty. The Minister said: 
It has been suggested in some quarters that the Government is suddenly withdrawing from funding home care services, causing large numbers of aged and infirm people to look to nursing homes and other institutions for help. 
That is the allegation. The Minister answers it by saying: 
The fact is thai the Commonwealth will continue to match every dollar allocated by the States for approved welfare officer and home care services. 
That is totally lacking in honesty. It is a nonsequitur on an Aunt Sally that the writer of this speech set up and then knocked over. It is not untrue but I suggest that it lacks honesty. Of course the Government will match every dollar with a dollar, but that is the very thing that those of us who are on this side of the chamber are objecting to- reducing it from $2 for $1 to $1 for $1 but, read nakedly, the speech looks as if it means something other than it is supposed to mean. The Minister continued: 
As I have already indicated, the new arrangements for the program were announced at the time of the Premiers' Conference in June and of course are fully in line with the 
Government's policy of federalism, which recognises that State and local governments are well placed to assume greater responsibility for locally based programs of this nature. 
I go along with that 100 per cent. I have been a champion of federalism, and of the philosophy of federalism, ever since it was announced, several years ago, by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  But it is a mockery to talk about federalism and devolution of responsibility. It is a mockery simply to say that this responsibility is handled better at the State and local government levels unless those organisations have the financial facilities to carry that out. If they have not, and we know they have not, it simply means that there is an opting out of responsibility by this Government. I would be voting on the other side of the chamber, with vigour, if this Bill took away from the Federal Government and gave it to local councils the responsibility to fund home care services- if, but only if, the accompanying Budget provision went with it. Every honourable senator on the other side of the chamber knows that it is not to be accompanied by the necessary funding. 
Why did Premier Hamer say immediately that he cannot find the extra funds to finance this matter? Why did he denounce this measure immediately it was announced? Why, if the money is there, did 55 municipalities meet and object to it strenuously- municipalities where the frail elderly are being cared for in a humane fashion. Why has the Uniting Church in Australia condemned this little five-clause Bill? Why has it been condemned by the Australian Council of Social Service and the Victorian Council of Social Service? 
I would have believed- in fact I know- that the Government, particularly the Prime Minister, thought very highly of Professor Henderson, as indeed one should. He is a first-class man and has served this Government and this country very well. Professor Henderson has condemned this proposal. The Pensioners Association has condemned it. In fact, the only persons I have heard espousing its so-called values have been the Liberals rising in the Senate tonight and by whom, in great fairness to them, I have not yet been persuaded. 
I also believe that the Bill is not only inhumane but also silly- silly because it will cost governments and taxpayers infinitely more than the miserable $3.8m by which it is intended to reduce the deficit. I should have thought that it would be well known to people in the Department and to the Treasury that it costs much more to maintain an elderly person in a nursing home and infinitely more for the next step along the downward path- the hospital bed- than it does to provide domiciliary services. Now I am getting away from the humanity of the question to the silliness of the economic action of the Government. 
I think Professor Henderson said that it costs something like 17 times more to keep a person in a nursing home than it costs to keep a person under domiciliary care. This, if multiplied by the number of people in Victoria alone who are now receiving domiciliary care, would represent millions of dollars. Nationwide eventually it would represent hundreds of millions of dollars. Yet the provisions of this Bill are to be enacted to save a miserable $4m. That is something that goes beyond my comprehension. I defend for a moment the Liberal backbenchers, in the light of  Senator Coleman's  charge against them. I think she rather unfairly asked them: 'Why haven't you got the guts to come over here and vote with us?' I say, with very great respect to my friends in the Australian Labor Party, that it ill befits a member of the Labor Party to issue such a challenge to Liberals because members of the Labor Party know that if they cross the floor once they are automatically expelled from their party. 
I thank the honourable senator for his interjection. I do not want to score a point on this, but just for the record, so that my speech is complete, I would be obliged to  Senator Cavanagh  or  Senator Coleman  if he or she would explain the situation. I was under the impression- obviously a false impression- that every member of the Labor Party, on being endorsed and on being elected, signs a pledge to obey party dictates, Caucus decisions, at all times, otherwise to suffer immediate expulsion. Is that incorrect,  Senator Cavanagh? 
I am grateful to  Senator Cavanagh  for his enlightenment. I would like to know the date that that happened in the Labor Party. At times certain Liberals have crossed the floor. I would hope that they would see this matter as being more important than the matter of funeral benefits, on which several of them courageously threatened to cross the floor. I would have thought that their actions on that occasion were sound and were courageous. But what I am suggesting is that this issue is far bigger, far more far-reaching, than the funeral benefits issue. 
How a Liberal can vote for this proposal is beyond my comprehension because it is totally opposed to Liberal Party policy. I know because I wrote it. Liberal Party policy demands that funds be channelled through that avenue which will keep elderly people in their own homes to prevent them from being institutionalised. This legislation goes in the reverse direction. When I, with the help of the Social Welfare Committee of the Liberal Party, presented and wrote that policy it was endorsed unanimously by the Liberals in the party room. Why do we have this sort of legislation before us now? We are going to oppose it.  Mr President,  for the sake of the record, to prevent my having to read this statement out, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement by the Minister for Social Security of 3 April 1978 in which she eulogised the concept of domiciliary care. I have paid the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who is at the table, and the Opposition Whip the courtesy of asking for authority to incorporate the statement. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Minister for Social Security in a Press Release dated 3 April 1978 on 'Community Responsibilities in Welfare and Health Programs ' said- 
Appropriate support services such as home nursing care, delivered meals, day hospitals, day centres and home visiting services can often provide a more humane and economic alternative for care of the aged, sick and disabled in our community than prolonged hospital or nursing home care' . . . 
Studies have shown that considerable cost savings accrue by providing support services which enables a patient to be cared for in his own home. In a discussion paper on paying for health care prepared by the Hospital and Health Services Commission, it was estimated that on average patients maintained in the community cost Governments about one-fifth of what it costs to treat patients in hospitals and two-thirds of what it costs to treat them in nursing homes. ' 
In conclusion, we oppose this Bill. Unlike  Senator Missen,  we can see practical reasons for its causing people to be institutionalised. We share  Senator Missen  's fear, but we say that it is too late to act after human beings, because of the thrust of this Bill, have been forced to leave their homes. We would prefer that the Bill were not passed rather than take that sort of risk with human lives. We believe that this is a classic case of a government which is out of touch with the people blindly accepting advice from a bureaucracy which is obsessed with statistics and deficits. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth: - 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question the general content of which I have paid him the courtesy of giving some notice. Will the Attorney-General confirm or deny that a Soviet KGB agent penetrated the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation during the tenure of office of  Mr Peter  Barbour? If so, what action was taken against the agent and what steps have been taken to prevent infiltration? 
I say at the outset that I have thoroughly enjoyed my short time in the Senate. It is different from the other place. Many more courtesies both to personalities and to intellect are observed. I am trying to observe them. One of the courtesies to intellect is that speakers here do not just read a prepared speech. They like to comment on the speech that immediately precedes theirs. I regret very much that I cannot do so this evening although I listened attentively to my friend  Senator Young.  I would have thought that about the last thing that this Parliament and the country needed at the moment, with the country in its present depressed condition would be half an hour of political point scoring, which is all that  Senator Young  has treated the Senate to. I say that with great respect. 

 Senator Young eulogised former Premier Playford. I am not aware, notwithstanding his virtues, that he was an altogether painted saint. As I understand it he showed himself to be one of the great enemies of true democracy in this country by carrying out the most outrageous gerrymander that any Premier or leader of a State has done in the history of this nation.  Senator Young  then denigrated totally the present Premier who again is no painted saint. One would have thought that that kind of point scoring was not to be found appropriate in a debate such as this, because this is an important debate. It is important because the Budget Papers which we are discussing affect more than 13 million Australian people in one way or another. Therefore, by definition of that very fact alone, there is not one citizen who escapes the thrust of these Budget Papers. 
The debate is important. The vote is not important; the vote is a mockery. I shall say something about that later. This Budget will pass; there is no question about that. Every honourable senator on the Government side will walk into the chamber when the division bells ring and mechanically vote that the Budget be passed- not that they have been allowed to discuss it. Discussion was forbidden in the party room. I put forward one hypothetical, philosophical point perhaps for the bemusement of those listening to this debate. I do not have the slightest doubt that if this chamber could take a free vote and a secret vote on the Budget- God forbid that we ever accept the strong lobbying at present that parliamentarians ought to take a secret vote on issues- and if the vote were not along party lines these Budget Papers would not be passed in their present form. 
After saying that the Budget Papers which we are debating are important, let me say in another sense that I think that we the politicians, we the Australian people, attach too much importance to Budget Papers. The Australian Democrats believe that yearly budgets are a disaster and that they are the very last thing that an economy and a society trying to look ahead to the problems that face us and the world need. It would be bad enough if once every 12 months on the second Tuesday in August there was a savage change in the direction of the economy of society. Unhappily, in recent years that is what has happened. Goodness knows how that leaves the small businessman and the consumer who want to plan ahead so that they can organise their affairs in a more orderly way. 
In more recent years- I have noticed this since the retirement of  Sir Robert  Menzies- we do not have just an announcement on 15 August each year; we have a gradual lead-up for three to four months with calculated leaks and warnings about what the Budget will contain. So virtually between the months of June and August in latter years we have had this period of indecision in which people do not know where they are going. I am not talking only about the disgraceful leaks that come from Ministers' offices or Public Service offices. They seem to be getting worse. I will be happy if some honourable senator will correct me if I am wrong, but I think the present Budget took the prize from any other Budget in the nation's history. I believe that there was not a significant item in it that was not leaked to the Press before the Budget Speech was delivered on the second Tuesday in August. The leaking- or hinting, to put a more respectable name on itabout which I am talking comes from the Prime Minister himself, the Treasurer himself and senior Ministers. There seems to be a softening up process to prepare people for something tough. An even more sinister technique is to let some kite fly which frightens the hell out of everybody and later deny it and so take the heat off the actual nastiness of the items themselves. To quote a rather famous Australian's words, I would have thought that  Sir Robert  Menzies would have found that sort of conduct most reprehensible. 
The Victorian Employers Federation has described this one-year Budget as a ridiculous annual Budget fiasco. The Australian Democrats agree with the Victorian Employers Federation. We should look at the Canadian system. At least the Canadian Government gives an indication of what it plans for three years ahead so that everybody in the country- trade unions, consumers, workers and employers- can at least have some idea where they are going in the following three years with only moderate alterations each year. But the Democrats believe that this does not go far enough. Although the Canadian system eliminates savage changes in direction, it does not eliminate them altogether. The Australian Democrats disagree with this system and we put forward two fundamental concepts. We believe that the social and economic problems of Australia and the problems of the world cannot be solved unless there is long term indicative planning by the people who govern this country and others. We believe that unless we have indicative planning in terms of economic policies, social policies and human policies we will never solve the enormous problems ahead. We have recommended and are recommending nothing short of a permanent committee on which is represented all political parties, trade unions, employers and public servants. We recommend that all these groups should get together so they can do at least three things urgently: firstly, obtain suggestions on how to solve the most pressing problem that faces Australia today, youth unemployment; secondly, create economic and social models for the 1980s so that we know where we are going; and thirdly, receive advice from those people who regard themselves as expert- and I am now referring not only to academics in government departments or in universities but also to people outside in the heat of the kitchen- to tell us where we are going, what our problems will be and what sort of problems these economic models will create. Unless we do that sort of thing I do not believe that any of the problems are capable of solution. 
What confounds me is why the Liberal Party rejects long term indicative planning. I think the very word 'planning' strikes an emotive chord in every Liberal breast because 'planning' is a word that is sometimes used by the hated socialists and therefore anything that a socialist says must necessarily be bad to a member of the conservative party opposite. I think that is an absurd posture to take. The irony is that the Liberals are the so-called self-appointed champions of private business. I ask them whether they can tell me one private businessman- small, medium or largewho will survive for five minutes unless he or she plans five or ten years ahead. Yet from a Liberal Government we have this ad hockery of changing direction once every 12 months at Budget time. 
We say that the problems ahead for both Australia and the world are so big that the present systems cannot cope. There has to be a quantum leap forward in the thinking of all Australians, politicians and non-politicians, for us to cope with the problems of the advances of technology, the inequality of education, the Aboriginal problems and the surplus of teachers. If we want an example of how weak politicians have allowed strong empire-building bureaucrats to cause social and human havoc in this country let us look at what politicians of all persuasions have done to young people in the teaching profession. I know that to establish models or prognoses for the future any form of forecasting is rather difficult, but I would have thought that anyone would not need to be a genius to be able to predict roughly the number of teachers that would be needed for a certain number of children three years ahead, birth rates and attrition rates being known. I am informed that at present 4,000 teachers are unemployed in New South Wales and 1,500 in Queensland. By February 3,000 young people who have dedicated three years of their lives to becoming teachers will be unemployed. I am further informed that two out of three of those who graduate from the teaching colleges of this country this year will be unable to find teaching positions. Yet we still have illiteracy and innumeracy with something like 25 per cent of children of 14 years of age. Those are not my figures; those are the figures put to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Special Learning Difficulties. Yet we do nothing about the problem. The point the Democrats are making is that unless we have long term planning to remove party politics and point scoring from this sort of arrangement we will never solve those sorts of problems. 
We believe that in Australia other events have to happen. There has to be a reform of the parliamentary political system. I compliment  Senator Hamer  on one of the best speeches I have heard in many years in his contribution to this debate the other night. We believe that no hope remains for Australia to solve its problems if all power remains in the Executive. We who sit here as senators should not kid ourselves. Not one honourable senator in this chamber now- I include the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)has  any power whatsoever over decisions relating to Bills and other matters that come into this chamber. We stand here, we make powerful speeches. Some honourable senators other than me make eloquent speeches. But it does not matter a damn to the legislation we are debating. It will pass by the sheer weight of numbers. With the kind of talent we have in this chamber alone, I would have thought that Australia needed the contribution of every honourable senator. But when the Parliament is a total rubber stamp to the Executive that position cannot obtain. We cannot solve problems if we persist with such a system. 
I support  Senator Hamer  in his suggestion that ministerial portfolios should be removed from this chamber. I believe that that would be a progressive step. I believe that we ought to appoint chairmen of committees. I would have thought that the  chairman  of a Congressional committee under the system in the United States of America has far more clout, far more authority, far more prestige and far more influence over decisions than a junior Minister has under the Australian Westminster style of government. I hope that someone will take up that suggestion. I would go further. I believe that we have reached the stage where a government under our system should not have to rely on the galaxy of talent that is thrown up by the electoral system from which to choose its Ministers. I know that I am talking about five or ten years hence, but I believe that we ought to be looking at a system under which the government of this country can recruit specialists from outside the Parliament to become Ministers. I would like to see our Constitution changed to enable Ministers to be selected from outside the Parliament. Maybe then there would be a brake on the bureaucracy. Too many Ministers are the servants of their departments. I am not suggesting that public servants are inefficient. What I am saying is that the fount of all wisdom does not rest with them. I believe that we would get better people in government and better people in this Parliament if members of the House of Representatives or the Senate knew that serving on a back bench committee or a House of Representatives or Senate committee was of some real use and that through those committees they could have some effect on systems. 
Today I was appalled- I am amazed that this matter has not been raised in this place- to get from the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  an innocent document, printed on Government letterhead, outlining guidelines for the behaviour of public servants before committees. It virtually contains instructions for we members of parliament to act like children. We cannot ask public servants certain questions. The restrictions on us, as democratically elected people, in seeking information from Ministers and public servants are so finite as to make work on a committee almost useless. I would like to see us move to consider my suggestion at some stage. 
The third change we advocate is to involve more people in the decision making process. One of my main criticisms of the Fraser Government and in particular of this Budget is that the Government seems to be moving more and more away from involving people. It is rather ironical that for years the conservative parties have accused the Australian Labor Party of being socialist, centralist and autocratic. Yet, as I said publicly when I was a shadow Minister in the other place, some of the innovations introduced by the Labor Party were exciting, progressive and led to the involvement of people. 
I would like to know what involved people more than the Australian Assistance Plan. It covered women's refuges, child care centresone could go on- and involved people in the community in looking after young children, with the Government topping up only one- fifth of the cost. Under the AAP literally thousands of people were giving hours of time in an honorary capacity and saving the Government millions of dollars. All of those programs have been dismantled or so savaged as not to be recognisable. 
It worries me that this Government is going in the opposite direction under the guise of federalism. More and more power is being placed in the hands of 'big brother' and the ordinary decent citizen out there who wants to make a contribution to his or her country is being denied that opportunity. That is bad for our social fabric. Professor Wooten, an Australian I admire very much, said: 
The Australian electorate has not been doing its job. The dolce vita of the last 20 years in this lucky country has made too many of us forget that politics are far too important to be left to politicians. 
If we are insensitive to injustice and greed but responsive to bread and circuses it is inevitable that we will be governed by clowns instead of statesmen. 
In pleading for new directions I would like to illustrate that we cannot afford the luxury of hoping that the present systems, attitudes and philosophies will solve our future problems. In my view, the greatest crime we can commit, as senators, as members of parliament- no, as ordinary human beings- is, when we die, through acts of omission or commission to leave this world this country, the city in which we live, a poorer, less happy or less safe place for our children. I think that that sort of philosophy sometimes escapes all of us, particularly politicians. I congratulate  Senator Puplick  for making a most wonderful and refreshing speech in this House tonight. Through you, Madam Acting  Deputy President,  I say to  Senator Puplick:  Please, never let the sincere but rather cynical reponse of  Senator McAuliffe  turn you off being idealistic. This Parliament- this nation- needs more, not less, idealism. To put into context my claim that the problems of the world and of Australia in particular cannot be solved unless we have a totally different approach- a new system- I shall quote what was said by a man whose mind I admire probably more than the mind of anyone else in the world today. I refer to Arthur Koestler, who presented a very pessimistic view of the future. He gives ten reasons for his pessimism. They are: 
The situation prevailing today is without precedent in history in as much as prior to today the destructive potential of man has been confined to limited areas and limited populations whereas today it embraces the entire planet. 
Rapid progress in the manufacturing methods of both types of ultimate weapons- nuclear and bio-chemical have made their spreading inevitable and their control impossible. The existing stockpiles in nuclear weapons equal one Hiroshima-size device for every one of the earth's  Vh  billion people. 
The annihilation of distance through the increasing speed of communications was in mathematical terms equivalent to a contraction of the planet's surface to an area smaller than England measured by  steamage  standards. 
The shrinking of the planet relative to the travelling speed of missiles and man was  paralled  by a simultaneous contraction of the available living space and food resources relates to population size. 
Leading this lemming-race were the culturally backward strata of the population. 
The world wide migration from rural to urban areas resulted in the cancerous growth of cities where more and more people were piling up in less and less space. 
An inevitable by-product of these runaway processes was the physical poisoning and aesthetic pollution of the land, water and air of the planet. 
The conquest of the air and the subsequent annihilation of distance, instead of knitting the nations into a single world community had exposed them to mutual deterrence at gun point. 
In the first 23 years of the nuclear age about 40 regional and civil wars had been fought by conventional means and on two occasions the world had been on the brink of nuclear war. 
This, from the man with probably the greatest mind in the world today, frightens the hell out of me: 
In view of man's emotional immaturity compared to his technological achievements the problem of his selfinduced extinction was now almost a statistical certainty. 
What we are saying is that unless we look in a global sense at satellites, at Concorde, at uranium, at whatever new inventions the technologists give us, we will have perpetrated the greatest crime on our children by leaving this an unhappy place, a less safe place, for them- or perhaps leave no place at all. I say again to  Senator Puplick  that if ever he makes statements like that and someone says: 'It will not work; you are an idealist and idealism will not work', do not accept it. Where would the problems of the Middle East be today if two men of good will, two idealists, had not stood up and said: 'We will stop fighting. It will get us nowhere. We will talk.' Where would they be if another man of good will had not joined them as the honest broker? Like many other senators, I have been to the Middle East many times. How many times have we been there in past years and heard people say that the problems are intractable, insoluble; that it will be Armageddon, the finish; that the only solution is total war? Yet this week has been a week of fresh air to those people who believe that there is still a place for good will and talk and discussion, for consultation rather than confrontation. 
In Australia we have problems of the same dimensions as the ones mentioned by Koestler. In regard to unemployment of the young, 16 per cent of our children aged between 15 and 19 years are now unemployed. I refer in that context to the statement of Tony Street, a man of impeccable honesty, and, since learning that his statement was not referred to Cabinet, a man of great courage. To take extracts from his speech, he referred to the unemployment situation in these words: 'It is a real danger to the fabric of our society'; 'no sign of significant improvement'; 'private employment jobs decreased last year by 48,000'; 'a need to create 130,000 jobs a year to reduce unemployment to 4.5 per cent by 1983'; clearly unrealistic'; 'the labour force to grow by 110,000 between now and 1985'. One million young people will come into the work force within the next seven or eight years and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has said that there is no way in which they will be able to be employed. 
What is done in this Budget? The Government actually budgets for more unemployed to hit society. It is there in the figures. What the hell are we doing? We are betraying our children. There is not a responsible parent in the country who did not go to his children when they were young and say: 'Do not leave school early. Sacrifice, study, do well, and society will reward you.' Yet, as Professor Karmel has said, we are creating a two-class society. There are some responsible people who say that in the 1980s we will have one million unemployed. Yes, we have to cure inflation, but I am not persuaded by the obsessive logic of the academics and the Treasury who say that the only way to reduce inflation is to reduce the deficits. If they need any other evidence that that is a fallacy, a theory well-discredited over the last 10 years, let them look at last year's Budget. We have heard from the other side of the House that the Government has brought down inflation. The Liberals say proudly: 'We brought down inflation by 3 per cent to 4 per cent last year. ' I do not dispute that. They did, but during that year the deficit increased overBudget by $1.1 billion. The deficit increased by $1 billion or more, and yet the Government was able to bring down inflation. I should have thought that that in itself would be enough to nail the theory that the Government cannot increase the deficit and still bring down inflation. 
The Democrats believe that inflation and unemployment can be tackled simultaneously. We want selective stimulation of industries and, as we have said before, we would select the home building industry. We believe that we have to come to our senses about the one million young people who are going to leave school in the new few years. Where are they going to get jobs? Where do the academics tell us they are going to get jobs? The academics in the Industries Assistance Commission and in the Treasury say that we cannot support inefficient and uneconomic industries. They never define what those industries are. I am not an obsessive high protectionist- in fact, I have been the opposite- but are they referring to rural industries? People in the country have been reduced from 40 per cent of our population to 8 per cent in less than 55 years. People are coming from the country to the city. It is not the rural industries to which they are referring. The mining industry, even if it booms, is capital intensive and not labour intensive. Are we going to absorb those people into the Public Service? God forbid. Are they going to be absorbed into the service industries? If so, which service industry? In my simplistic logic, there is only one thing left and that is manufacturing. I think it is time we realised that if we want to place young people in jobs we have to look after our manufacturing industry. If we want it to be viable, to export, we have to give it a home base, otherwise there is no way out of the dilemma. 
In conclusion, as I said when I began, the present systems, the present ad hockery, the present point-scoring will not work. We need an on-going committee in which all political parties can participate, in which the trade unions, the workers, the consumers, the employers can get together and take evidence and find out what the solutions are to the problems ahead of us. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Was a Commonwealth Health Department publication entitled  Cannabis- A Review,  withdrawn at the direction of a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with drug abuse. 
Is this publication a serious review of literature on marihuana over the last eighty years. 
Why is the public not entitled to benefit from this information, which could contribute to better-informed discussion on the marihuana issue. 
Will the Minister have the report released to interested parties. 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In the event of a major catastrophe occurring in one of Australia's major cities or provincial areas such as the crash of a satellite or even a minor nuclear accident, is the Government satisfied that our civic and military defence mechanisms could cope with the consequences? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Is the Australian Government Engine Works the only factory in Australia capable of producing and testing large engines (up to 26,000 bhp), including not only marine engines but also those required in the mining, oil exploration, pipeline and other fields. 
Is the existence of such a facility for production and maintenance vital to Australia's defence needs. 
Will the Government ensure the continued existence of the AGEW, with its capacity and expertise, either by combining it with the Williamstown Naval Dockyard, or by other means. 
I claim that  Senator Messner  has misrepresented me; unintentionally I am sure. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 

 - Senator Messner referred to a question I addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  today about the increased taxes on accrued leave of certain people, particularly railway workers in the Victorian railways who, in being loyal to their employer and the public, had not taken their annual leave over a number of years. They now find themselves being taxed on it at a higher rate. I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate two questions: The first concerned the rationale behind the Government's decision on that matter and the second dealt with whether he could justify the retrospectivity of the tax imposed. I received no answer to either of those questions. The point I want to make is that at no stage during my question did I mention superannuation, as  Senator Messner  alleged I did. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What is the breakdown of unemployment figures, in terms of migrant groupings, in the following Federal electorates: (a) Lalor; (b) Wills; (c) Melbourne, (d) Melbourne Ports, (e) Burke; (f) Batman; (g) Maribyrnong; (h) Gellibrand; and (i) Scullin. 
If figures are not available for every migrant grouping, what are the figures for the major groups. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 1 4 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1 979. 
Restoration of the S8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer a question concerning tax on accrued leave payments, particularly with reference to many employees of the Victorian Railways Department with 30 or even 40 years service who find themselves with substantial amounts of accrued leave on retirement because they were unable to take all the leave due to them when replacements were not available. Does the Government's Budget decision to raise the rate of the tax on the value of accrued leave from 5 per cent to 33  lA  per cent penalise these and other employees who have made sacrifices to maintain a service to the public? What was the rationale behind the Government's decision? How can he justify the retrospectivity of its effect? 
I also compliment  Senator Townley  on bringing forward this amendment. The Australian Democrats will be pleased to support it. We object very strenuously to the retrospectivity of the Bill but, more than that, we are a little angry about the weak and feeble attempt in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to justify or to deny retrospectivity. I find in the second reading speech a quite extraordinary use of the English language in trying to justify it. He raises the Aunt Sally and then tries to knock it over. In the second reading speech he states:  it is incorrect to claim- as some have- that the Budget decision is a retrospective change to the law. 
Then he went on to say: 
Such a change is one which back dates a change to the law and retrospectively alters a previously enjoyed right. 
With great respect to the Minister, that is precisely what this clause does. Then came the most extraordinary part of the Treasury's explanation. The Minister said: 
In no case will the decision affect a lump sum payment made before IS August 1978 - 
Of course, we agree with that but then comes this incredible piece of logic: although as the Treasurer has acknowledged it will result in persons who had accumulated annual leave prior to the Budget paying a higher rate of tax when the lump sum is received than they might have anticipated at the time the accumulation took place. 
To me, that is the most exquisite description of retrospective legislation I have read, yet it is put forward by the Government as justification of its claim that the legislation is not retrospective. 
-I do not think I would flatter it by including it even in the art of casuistry. As  Senator Evans  said, it would make a Jesuit blush. I see absolutely no justification for it. I raised this matter yesterday in a question I asked and gave the Minister an opportunity of explaining the rationale behind it and justifying retrospectivity. He said: 'Turn to the second reading speech', and I have but I am afraid that I have received little satisfaction from it. 
I have received many representations from many professions but the employees for whom I feel particularly sorry, and perhaps it is because their reputations have been better than the reputations of other employees, are the Victorian railway workers, men who have dedicated their lives for 30 or 40 years as stationmasters or whatever in rather remote country towns and who have not been able to take their leave. Their leave has accumulated and now under this retrospective legislation they will, to use the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  have to pay a higher rate of tax than they might have anticipated. This seems to be a classic case of a tax on loyalty, a tax on fidelity and a tax on people in the work place who show dedication and loyalty to their employers. For that reason the Australian Democrats will support the amendment. 
To save the time of the Senate I agreed earlier in the day not to make a lengthy second reading speech on this Bill and I will honour that commitment. I just want to state so that it is in the record that the Australian Democrats find themselves in some mild dilemma in regard to this Bill. Our pledge to the Australian people was that we would not do anything at any stage to block Supply and because this is a Budget Bill it produces some dilemma for us. My judgment, after looking at the Bill, is that if it is not passed benefits that are payable today would remain the same. Very few minor additions or additional benefits are given by this Bill. 
The overriding consideration that has come to me is that if we did vote for the second reading of this Bill we would be dishonouring our undertaking to the electorate during the election campaign that one of our functions would be to keep the Government honest to its promises. One of the main thrusts of this Bill is to be found in clauses 5 and 6 about which I will speak later and against which we will vote. In simple terms it would seem to me that if we voted with the Government on this Bill we would be virtually saying to the Government: 'We know you have broken an overt promise to pensioners and we support you for it. ' For that reason I have come to the view that there is no way that we could possibly support the Government on either the second reading of the Bill or on clauses 5 and 6, 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth:- 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
. Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5% in real terms on base level programmes for 1 979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament Assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth; 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index Figures; 
And whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; 
It is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics, of Democratic Government, and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their Subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the under-signed Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that trustworthiness of Governments should at all times be above question. 
And to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian Pensioners, by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of Pension rates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 4 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their stated objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enacting legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely: ° Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
 Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. ° Unemployed divided into those with dependants and those without. ° Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I thank those honourable senators for supporting this matter of public importance. For the benefit of people who are listening to the broadcast of the Senate's proceedings, the Sessional Orders of the Senate demand that when an honourable senator puts a matter of public importance before the Senate, the support of four other honourable senators is needed. Normally, for obvious reasons, this usually follows Party lines but I am delighted to say that today members of all political parties in this Senate, with the exception of the National Country Party, rose to support the discussion of this matter of public importance. I thank the Senate for that. 
The matter of public importance before the Senate for discussion is: 
The appalling action of Qantas Airways Ltd of banning Jews from flights which land in Syria. 
As I understand the situation, Qantas has landing rights in Syria. Syria, by government decree, has placed a ban on any person of Jewish faith, of any nationality. It must be understood that the ban on anybody entering Syria applies not only to people of the Israeli nation bearing an Israeli passport but also to people of the Jewish faith of any nationality. 
Though the terms of reference of my matter of public importance mention only Qantas Airways Ltd, I believe that there is a much bigger question involved in this matter; and that is the question involving the Government of Australia. Might I say at the outset that I was delighted as, I could see, was the Senate with  Senator Carrick  's categorical statement today that he and the Government had abhorrence for this particular situation, and I thank him for that. I thought that was a very responsible and welcome thing for  Senator Carrick,  as Leader of the Government in the Senate and as acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, to say. 
Whilst I am pleased about that, I still have very serious misgivings about the role of the Government in this particular instance. Words such as those used by  Senator Carrick  do not totally allay my concern. If it were Qantas only that had done this deal with the Syrian Government, that would be bad enough. All of us in this chamber are very proud of our national airline which most of us rate as being one of the best, if not the best, in the world. It carries the name of Australia with great dignity and credit everywhere it goes, not only in terms of performance, but also in terms of courtesy and its contribution to world aviation. As I said, if Qantas had done this on its own, it would be bad enough, but if the Government did it or if the Government knew about it, the situation would be absolutely appalling. 
I am not questioning the words that  Senator Carrick  used in the Senate today; as I understand it they were very carefully chosen words. But I find it very difficult to believe that the Government did not know of or was not consulted in any form on such an arrangement that our Government airline could have made with another country. Why do I conclude that? I conclude that from the words of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, who, on Monday evening of this week on the Willesee television program  Willesee at Seven  was interviewed regarding the Laker cheaper air fares. I hope that I quote him accurately; I believe I do. He said: 
Any arrangements relating to flights over airspace of a foreign country or any landing rights in a foreign country are on a government to government basis because Qantas is a government airline. 
The Minister's own words were 'government to government'. Who is 'the Government' in this infamous deal that somebody has done with the Syrian Government? Who is 'the Government', assuming that it was done by the Government? Is it a departmental official? Of course it could not be. I have great admiration for the good sense and the sense of delicacy and sensitivity of government public servants. Was it a Qantas officer? I have far too much respect for  Sir Lenox  Hewitt- who in my view is a magnificent Australian and is a credit to Qantas and to this country- and for his long experience and expertise in the Public Service to think that he would even contemplate concluding a deal of such sensitivity with a foreign power. It is absurd to conclude that it was done by a departmental official. 
If the arrangement was made on a government to government basis, was the Minister for Transport informed of it? I find it incredible that an arrangement such as this could have been made without the Minister being informed either by his departmental officers or by the chief executive officer of the statutory corporation, the government owned airline, Qantas. Surely  Mr Nixon  must have been informed of this. If he .was not informed we would have cause for even greater worry as to what people might do without reference to government in the future. Again I have too much respect for  Mr Nixon's  political acumen, his sense of propriety and in fact his sense of survival, having been a colleague of his in previous Liberal-Country Party governments, to think that he would make that decision unilaterally or take that advice unilaterally. It passes my credibility that  Mr Nixon  would have known about this and not at least referred it to the Government. 
I hope that  Senator Carrick,  the Leader of the Government in this place, will respond and speak in this debate. I hope that he will deny categorically that the Government or  Mr Nixon  knew anything about this secret deal with the Government of Syria. My fears are not allayed by a statement attributed to the Minister in an article in this morning's Melbourne  Age.  The article states: 
The Transport Minister,  Mr Nixon,  said last night any restriction on Jewish passengers was pan of an arrangement under which Qantas operated its Damascus service. 
Then this incredible statement appears: 
It was part of Qantas' normal commercial operations . . . 
Normal'! Is it normal? Do we have a Transport Minister of Cabinet rank ascribing the term 'normal ' to the operations of our government airline which can undertake such a monstrous alienation of human rights with a foreign country without reference to the Government? The newspaper article then quotes  Mr Nixon's  concluding words:   the Federal Government had taken no part in the decision. Whichever way it is- whether the Government knew or did not know- it is a matter of great seriousness. 
This matter assumes very serious proportions. Why? Discrimination of any type is rightly deplored by members of all political parties in this country. All political parties are sincere in deploring discrimination. There are many forms of discrimination. Discrimination against race is despicable and is to be deplored. Discrimination against colour is equally monstrous. Cultural discimination and sexual discrimination are bad and are to be condemned. But, of all the types of discrimination, in my view the worst- if there can be a worst type- is discrimination against a person's religious beliefs, and that is precisely what the Syrian Government's action in this instance is. I repeat that the Syrian Government is not discriminating against citizens of Israel. It is discriminating against any citizen of any country who happens to have a certain religious persuasion. Australia is going along with that kind of discrimination. I hope that all parties in this chamber will condemn this action for what it is- the worst of all possible forms of discrimination. 
We now find that some of the people who are being discriminated against are in fact Australian citizens. Australia is now a nation made up of people of many former nationalities. Surely we cannot accept a situation in which Australians are vetted as to their acceptability and banned by other nations on the basis of their previous nationality or present religious beliefs. An Australian citizen who was born into a family that had been Christian for generations and who changed his or her religious beliefs to the Jewish faith would come under this blanket discrimination by the Syrian Government. I am shocked that the Australian Government or one of its instrumentalities has accepted that position. 
A constituent of mine is the person aggrieved. I have difficulty in believing that the Government is not able to find out who he is. I had no difficulty in doing so. In fact, I spoke to him this morning. He is quoted in the Melbourne  Age  and he confirms the story. He said that his mother's travel agent in London had received a circular from Qantas outlining the Syrian ban. He said that the agent had booked his mother on another flight leaving the same day. My constituent rang Qantas this morning. What I am saying is not a criticism of the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am not trying to score a point. However, I am disturbed by the statement that he made today. I know that he is impeccable in making sure that the information he gives to the Senate at Question Time is accurate as far as he personally is concerned. But in part of his statement today he said that his advice was that Qantas had not instructed its staff" to inquire into the religious beliefs or faith of its passengers. I am worried that the Minister has been given wrong advice. This is not his fault. 
My constituent rang the passenger reservations section of Qantas. He picked up the telephone book, found the passenger reservations number, rang that number and asked the question. The person who answered the question was not a top executive. This matter is no secret in Qantas. My constituent told the passenger reservations officer who answered the telephone that he would like to book someone on the Melbourne to London flight through Damascus. The Qantas official said: 'We are not allowed to book a person with a Jewish passport on a flight to Damascas'. My constituent asked: 'What is a Jewish passport?' The Qantas representative said: 'Anyone of Jewish faith'. That is a statement of fact which was elicited this morning by my constituent and which conflicts totally with the advice that the Minister received from the Department or from the office of the Minister for Transport before Question Time. 
We say this type of international banditry or diplomatic and political terrorism practised by 
Syria and other nations is to be deplored. By this act, whether the Government, the Cabinet or the Minister was responsible or knew about it, Australia now has this black mark against it. While we are supporting the Camp David accords, while we are deploring discrimination, Qantas, which is our international front window, with or without Government knowledge is speaking with two voices. In this act of Qantas, Australia must be seen as at least condoning the Syrian action or at worst agreeing with it. The significance is that Australia will be seen as taking sides in the Arab versus Israeli or Syria versus Israeli situation. We believe such a situation to be very serious. 
Leaving aside religious discrimination, let us look for a moment at the country to which we have been seen to bow because of political blackmail- Syria. At the present moment Syria has 60,000 troops engaged in bloody slaughter in the Lebanon. The Syrian army virtually occupies that country. Syria is adding to international tension. The prospect for the escalation of the Middle East conflict is ever present in a situation in which there remains a warning or notice from Jerusalem that Israel would not stand idly by and watch its Christian allies in southern Lebanon crushed by the Syrians. That danger is now apparent, being caused by Syria. 
Many observers see a direct link between the increased Syrian fighting in the Lebanon and the Camp David Accords. Syria is one of the hardline rejectionist Arab states which have been hostile to the peace process begun so boldly by President Sadat, joined in so magnificently by President Begin and monitored so wonderfully by President Carter. The hard-line Arabs have wanted no concession to Israel. This is another example of that. The thing that grieves me is that Australia, either through an overt or covert act, has now been seen to be taking sides, to be accepting one point of view over another. I believe that this matter ought to be resolved immediately- without any further delay. I welcome the Minister's denunciation of the act. I hope that further action will be taken and that the strongest possible protest will be sent on behalf of the Australian people against this outrage of human rights. If the Syrians are intractable in this regard, as they are in everything else, I believe that we have no alternative but to direct our national airline- our government airline- to reroute its flights so that it will not go over the sovereignty or territory of Syria but will go somewhere else. I believe that this matter is one of supreme urgency for the Government to act. 
by leave- I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and the Senate. The Australian Democrats would agree essentially with 

 Senator Button's criticisms; I think they are relatively mild criticisms- of the report. We would agree essentially with most of the points on page 2 of the statement of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  However, we would be even more critical than  Senator Button  of the statement that in future study leave should be restricted to members of the academic staff. 
I would agree even more strongly with  Senator Button  that it seems an incongruity that administrators are specifically excluded from that provision. One would wonder in what category a vice-chancellor would come. Is he an academic or an administrator? I would have thought that, as soon as an academic attains the high rank of vice-chancellor, he becomes an administrator. I also would have thought that there was an unanswerable case for the administrators of Australian universities, in which billions of dollars of taxpayers' money is spent, being granted overseas study leave, as are the administrators of other public institutions in which millions of dollars of taxpayers' money is spent. It would be unthinkable if the administrators of our general and public hospitals, our police forces and our boards of works did not have the opportunity for overseas study leave. The investment of taxpayers' funds in universities is even greater. 
I do not want to be critical of the administration of all universities. Some are run magnificently. A few years ago, as a member of the House of Representatives I did a personal survey of some of Australia's universities and my mind boggled at the inefficiencies of some of them and the waste of taxpayers' money in some of them. That is not a criticism that applies to all universities. However, I think it presents a case for overseas study leave being extended to the administration area and not restricted. 
We wonder about the wisdom of the statement In general, individual absences on study leave should be restricted to periods of not greater than six months'. As the academic year is essentially only nine months, I think we would be reducing the study leave period from 12 months to six months rather needlessly. I hope I do not misquote the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but I think the reason he foreshadowed this change was the additional amount of money that would be required to replace academics who were on study leave. My information from the vice-chancellors of many universities with whom I have spoken is that in general terms there is no additional cost per se to the university in respect of academics who take study leave. I just wonder whether there is any saving in the cost at all? As I understand the position, most academics on study leave get a certain grant for their air fares. A friend of mine who is a professor at a leading Australian university is presently on overseas study leave. I think that the total cost to the Government for the grant he received is something like $1,200 or less. He is overseas for 12 months and the trip will cost him something like $7,000. He has to find something like $6,000 out of his own pocket. The sort of hectic schedule he has arranged which will benefit him and his university will certainly necessitate a 12 months stay. It seems to me to be needless to reduce that period to six months. 
Finally, I agree with  Senator Button  in that I find the statement that the present emphasis on overseas study leave should be reduced to be rather extraordinary. If the Government is saying that there is now a manic obsession among academics to rush overseas every seven years or whatever I agree that this type of leave should be restricted per se. But if there is to be an active campaign to restrict overseas study leave I think that would be a retrograde step. 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  agreed to: 
That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I am not doubting the integrity of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  or that of her departmental advisers, but I thought that was a most extraordinary statement for a Minister of the Crown to make in a parliament. The proposition that a government department is going to collect $22m more each year and it will not cost taxpayers one extra cent to collect that amount stretches our credibility as to the sort of advice that the Minister is giving. It is unbelievable that a department can collect $22m more each year but it will not cost any extra money to collect that amount. It just is not possible for me, as a former Minister and as a person who has had some experience in the administration of departments, to believe that a measure that would produce $22m in additional revenue and which involved people filling in additional forms or providing more information on existing forms could be performed without any additional administative cost. But I do not want to make a big point of that. That was not the question. 
I say to  Senator Walters  that one of the things we need from Ministers in these sorts of debates is credible answers furnished by the departments. If  Senator Walters  wants to sit there and be silly enough to believe that a government can collect $22m more in revenue without it costing one extra cent, she is entitled to her opinion; but she should not put her standards of credibility on me, if she does not mind. 
Having said that, I wish to say that the Australian Democrats will not oppose this clause. We think it is reasonable in philosophy that the amount of available funds should go to those people who are in need. That is our policy. With great respect to  Senator Grimes,  I wonder whether he was arguing with tongue in cheek when he said that the amounts set out on page 4 of the second reading speech were ungenerous to people over 70 years of age. The threshold of allowable extra income is not ungenerous to those over 70. 1 would have thought that it was Labor philosophy to allow the available funds to go to those people who are in need. If the Labor Party had been criticising and condemning the Government and the Minister for another broken promise, that would have been a different proposition. The Australian Democrats would agree entirely with the Labor Party on that point. But if we are not today voting on whether the Government failed to keep an election promise - 
Of course it has, but we are not voting on that. We are voting on a clause in a Bill that will amend an Act of this Parliament. Much as we have sympathy with the Opposition's point of view that this is another one in a long series of broken promises of the 1977 general election campaign, we believe that logically that is no reason to vote against this clause. We support the Government on this issue. 
My friend and colleague,  Senator Mason,  is a much more gentle and gallant person than I am and he informed me that I was a little too savage and ungallant in my response to the interjection from my friend  Senator Walters.  If I was, I apologise. The only excuse I make is that I am a little emotionally angry today. The sole reason for that is this particular clause. Since I came to the senate I have been remarkably impressed with the higher tone of debate, with one or two classic exemptions. 
Nothing that came from  Senator McLaren  would astonish me, I assure him of that. I have been remarkably impressed with the tone of debate in the Senate and the way in which honourable senators listen to debates and develop a view on the debate based on the logic of the argument. I would think that if this is an independent House, as almost every honourable senator from both sides of the chamber has said in speeches to schools and in other places, if this is a House of review, and if it is a House of the States- 
It does not surprise me in the slightest that  Senator McLaren  has not said that because it is a far too intelligent thing for him to have thought of, let alone say. I am delighted to find myself in different company to  Senator McLaren  in that he has not said that. If this place is supposed to be an independent House then today is the classic time for members of the chamber to show their independence and to vote according to the known wishes of their constituents, not according to a party direction. I was both pleased and sorry to hear  Senator Bonner's  speech. I have been in this business for 1 7 years and if  Senator McLaren  says that that is too long then it will probably be the first and only time in my life that I will ever agree with him. 
I know how difficult it is for members of political parties to say something against the dictates of the party machine. I know what happens in the Caucus room. It takes a great deal of guts, of courage, and there are fewer people who do that in both Houses of the Parliament than I believe ought to.  Senator Bonner  did it today.  Senator Townley  did it yesterday and hopefully he may do it again in a minute. It disappoints me when a man of courage like  Senator Bonner  says: 'I disagree with this; this is a betrayal of what the Government promised' but then he does not vote. In fact he denies the people who elected him the opportunity of his voice and his vote in the matter about to be voted on. I am sure that  Senator Grimes  will call a division. If he does not, we will. This is an opportunity for every member of the Committee to stand up and be counted because it is a serious issue. I go to the history of this matter and of why it is a broken promise of the worst order. I had the great honour to be  chairman  of the Liberal-Country parties social services backbench committee, a member of the Executive when we were in the Opposition and the shadow Minister for Social Security. 
I know, I am coming to that in a minute. 
-Indeed, and I will show today that I will stick to that promise. In formulating Liberal-Country Party policy the committee of which I was a member laboriously sought the views of outside organisations which were actually in the welfare field. It sought not only academic views from people in ivory towers but also the view of the Salvation Army, the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Catholic Family Welfare Bureaux, the Australian Council of Social Service, the Victorian Council of Social Service, other councils of social service and many workers in the field. Every one came to us and said that the most urgent social reform needed in this country was indexation of pensions on an instant and automatic basis. Why did they say that? They were not only speaking for economic reasons. I used to be a member of the other place- probably it happens here also- where twice a year when Parliament was being broadcast politicians kicked pensions around like a football. They did not give a damn about old people listening in whose whole future economic security was at stake. Politicians tried to score points off each other, with the appropriate language. 
It was for that reason and not just for the economic reason that all the social workers said: 'Let us take politics out of pensions and index them instantly and automatically'. The LiberalNational Country Party committee agreed unanimously to index pensions on a quarterly basis automatically following the publication of the consumer price index- not four months after and not six months after. I took that proposal to the joint parties and unanimous approval was given to it. It was approved by the shadow Cabinet and then, after 1 1 November 1975, when the caretaker government was appointed by  Sir John  Kerr and I was the caretaker Minister for Social Security, Health, Repatriation and Compensation, the full caretaker Cabinet endorsed the proposal unanimously and endorsed a statement I issued on its behalf promising that this would be introduced immediately if we won office. 
I would like to go back over a little bit of history. Every member of the Liberal Party will agree that traditionally the pensioner vote has essentially been for the Labor Party, for reasons that we need not go into today. In 1975 there was a switch by hundreds of thousands of pensioners because we blazed the trail in this social reform, by taking politics out of pensions. We won the pensioners ' vote for the first time in many years. Then what happened? Immediately after we won that election instructions were given by the Prime Minister of this country, Malcolm Fraser, to my successor,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, and her Department to scrap the promise. This was before the Parliament had even met. It was two months or two weeks or whatever after the election results were announced. The first party meeting in 1976 witnessed one of the most disgraceful scenes ever seen in the Liberal-Country Party party room in the history of this Parliament. It was announced that the promise would not be honoured, that there were too many difficulties. 
There was uproar in the party room. I led it and I was pleased to lead it. I got some support and finally I threatened the Government in the party room that unless indexation was introduced in the Budget I would move a private member's Bill to introduce indexation. So many Liberal back-benchers supported me that the Government succumbed to that threat. That is the history of this development. Then the situation worsened. We agreed reluctantly to sixmonthly indexation, four months after the consumer price index was released. I tried to have that changed, but I could not get enough backbenchers to come with me. Now this clause goes even further. It goes past the stage of having 12- monthly indexation. It will be 12 months plus four months before pensioners have their pensions indexed. That is the sorry history of this piece of legislation. 
In the 1977 election campaign, which is not a long time ago, there was not one mention of changing that indexation of pensions. Instead there were constant references in the Liberal election campaign that the Liberal Party was an innovator in this field of social reform. There was not one mention that anything would be done to change indexation. Has anything happened between the election in 1977 and the Budget in 1978 to warrant a breaking of this promise on such a massive subject? Do not honourable senators know that when the debates on pensions are going on pensioners listen to them on radios in their homes? Has anything happened to cause the Government to renege on its promise? We are told that the reason for it is that inflation has come down. All honourable senators would concede that inflation has come down from X to Y or whatever it is. I do not know and I do not care what X was; Y now is about 7 per cent or 8 per cent. Is the Government saying that pensioners should be one of the few sections in the community which can go for 16 months having their pensions, their weekly incomes, eroded to the extent of 7 per cent or 8 per cent a year? Is the Government saying that it is going to allow age pensioners to have a 12 per cent, or whatever it is, erosion in their weekly incomes before it corrects their pensions? That is precisely what it is saying. 
This chamber is supposed to give a freer vote to members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party than the lower House. Liberal senators will know that those promises, that philosophy of indexation of pensions won borderline seats for a lot of their mates in the House of Representatives. I need not name them, but they won their seats on that promise. Now this legislation intends to break that promise. I began my comments by saying that I was emotionally angry. My anger has not abated during the time I have spoken. I appeal to those Liberal senators who find a semblance of morality in the argument I have put forward today to vote against this overt breach of an election promise on which many Liberal members won their seats, on which, perchance, some Liberal senators in the third position on the ticket won their seat. I sympathise with those honourable senators, including  Senator Bonner,  who feel in their consciences or in their deliberations that it is not possible for them to vote against the Government on this measure because they know that there is a tied vote on this side of the chamber. It is an unfortunate thing and an unhappy thing, but that is the situation. There are people in this chamber who have signed a pledge saying that if they ever change their way of voting they will suffer immediate expulsion from the party to which they belong. Government senators have not signed such a pledge. To those Liberal senators who feel that they cannot vote against the Government I say, in the name of morality, that if they cannot support this Bill, they should cross the floor. If they cannot do that I plead with them to abstain, at least to give this infamous amendment a fighting chance of being destroyed. 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for 
Withdrawal of the Guidlines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of5 per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1 979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  give notice that on the next day of sitting  I  shall move: 
That the Superannuation (Allocation of Previous Fund) Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1978 No. 156 and made under the Superannuation Act 1976, be disallowed. 
I  seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
Last Thursday,  Senator Missen,  as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, stated that his Committee had considered the objections to the implementation of these regulations and saw no reason to disallow them. I, like many other honourable senators, have received a massive number of objections to the regulations. The Notice Paper shows that  Senator Missen  will be delivering a report of the Committee on the matter today. It is my view that the Senate ought to have the benefit of reading the report and studying the objections and each recommendation which, I am sure, will be sound as I understand the Committee's decision was unanimous. Because of the number of representations I have received, I believe it would be responsible for the Senate to have a day or two to read and consider the report. I have given notice of the motion today because I understand that today is the last day on which under the Standing Orders such notice can be given. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question concerning the FI 1 1 fighter bomber. I refer to problems which have been encountered with this aircraft's gun firing system. My question is based on information I have just received. Is it true that originally when the guns were fired the vibrations were so extreme that the power hinges on the weapons bay cracked and broke, and that attempts were made to rectify this problem but that the vibrations still caused the rivets in the fuel tank to break causing danger of fuel leaks into the weapons bay? If this is so does it mean that at present the fighting capacity, as distinct from the bombing capacity, of Australia's fighter bomber is either non-existent or significantly reduced? 
I wish to withdraw the Notice of Motion standing in my name. I seek leave of the Senate to make a short statement regarding it. 
Leave granted. 
I thank the Senate for its courtesy. Yesterday I moved: 
That the Superannuation (Allocation of Previous Fund) Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1 978 No. 1 56 and made under the Superannuation Act 1 976, be disallowed. 
In moving that motion, I gave as my reason the fact that I did not disagree with the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, but I said: 
Because of the number of representations I - 
And other honourable senators-  have received, 1 believe it would be responsible for the Senate to have a day or two to read and consider the report. I have given notice of the motion today because I understand that today is the last day on which under the Standing Orders such notice can be given. 
The history of the case is that yesterday before Question Time was the last time that a motion for disallowance could be received; yet the report of  Senator Missen's  Committee, under Standing Orders, could not be received by the Senate until after Question Time. I thought it was appropriate for the Senate to have 24 hours in which to contemplate the implications of the report. Those reasons seem to have been vindicated although I confess to be more confused about the situation now than I was 24 hours ago. Last night's Melbourne  Herald  featured a story on the matter. It stated that an estimated $120m refund is to be shared by Commonwealth public servants who were in the old superannuation fund. It went on to state that the Returned Services League had protested about the way in which the money would be divided and that the League had been joined in its protest by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Federated Clerks Union. Prima facie there would seem to have been a great number of people disadvantaged because of the implementation of this ordinance. 
However, I have received telegrams, and this is why I am more confused. Although the  Herald  states that the ACOA and the Federated Clerks Union joined with the RSL, I have telegrams here from the ACOA stating that any such claims are false and that the regulations should be allowed to proceed. Hence my wish to withdraw the motion. My first inclination was to move today that this motion standing in my name be postponed until Tuesday, 7 November, so that honourable senators would be able to debate it and receive representations from the various organisations. It would seem that something like 200,000 public servants will be advantaged by the ordinance and something like 20,000 or 30,000 will be disadvantaged. It is a Catch 22, no-win matter. If the Senate had debated it, it would have been a most useful debate, but where would we have been then? If we had resolved to disallow it, another report would have had to be prepared, and another actuarial examination would have had to be made. That would have delayed further, by about a year or more, payment to these people who have already waited for such a long time. 
Therefore, on balance, I have come to the view that although a minority will be disadvantaged, it is better to disadvantage a minority than to disadvantage a huge majority who have waited two years or more for it to be implemented. I am told also that if we did have a debate on 7 November the Department of Finance would be thrown into a frenzy in its attempts to get the computers and payments ready, thus unnecessarily delaying payment even more. Therefore, I do withdraw my motion and thank the Senate for giving me leave to do so. In passing, I would express the hope that the Government would look sympathetically upon the requests of those thousands who, because of this ordinance, have been disadvantaged in regard to their application for compensation in some way or another. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Is the Government considering the use of Channel 5 A for the Government's proposed ethnic television station. 
Will the choice of Channel 5A subject ethnic television viewers to interference from radio amateurs using the two metre band because of the poor bandpass characteristics of television receivers. 
Alternatively, will this choice force radio amateurs to abandon the two metre band, with consequent loss of investment in equipment usually worth several hundred dollars. 
Will the Government consider the use of Ultra High Frequency television for the proposed station, thus abolishing Channel5A and bringing Australia into line with international practice. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 978: 
1 ) Did Pancontinental Mining Limited bulldoze areas in the Northern Territory in preparation for the construction of a road before receiving the necessary approval. 
Has steel which is required for an extension of the Arnhem Highway already been purchased, and is it located in Darwin; if so, why was this done before an environmental impact study had been prepared and before authority to proceed had been given. 
3 ) Has the Minister given any assurance, either formally or informally, to Pancontinental Mining Limited that its application to construct the road will be approved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 978: 
1 ) Did the draft report of the Tertiary Education Commission examining study leave in Australian Universities find that study leave served a valuable function, enhanced Australia's international reputation, provided benefits as a result of research, and that there was no evidence of widespread abuse. 
Did the report nevertheless recommend that time allowed for study leave be cut by 50 per cent and funding by about 33 percent. 
Will such cuts, if instituted: (a) limit the scope of valuable research; (b) interfere with traditional freedoms of universities; (c) abandon terms of service regarded as part of their contract by university staff many of whom are from overseas; and (d) reduce opportunities for international contacts. 
What are the Government's intentions regarding these recommendations. 
I do not know whether the clerks are keeping a score card of the number of letters that each honourable senator has received on this issue, but for the record, according to my secretary's latest count, I have received 6,500 letters, which at this point of the debate I think means that I win the prize. This indicates that I am the most easily persuaded, the most easily manipulated, the most likely to be corrupted or the most likely to corrupt, or the most malleable. I do not quite know what it proves. But I think it does indicate that whilst several honourable senators here today have gone to great pains to say that this debate is not about abortion, there are at least 6,500 other citizens who strongly believe that it is. I believe that it is too. 
Let me say quite steadfastly that I support very strongly  Senator Ryan's  motion, particularly in view of the amendment moved by  Senator Evans,  which puts beyond any shadow of doubt that if this motion as amended is carried today, there will be no private abortion clinics in Canberra. That is precisely what  Senator Evans  says in his amendment. I am particularly attracted to what  Senator Evans  has sought to add to the motion, namely, the recommendations that the report of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health be adopted. I would like to devote some of my speech today to those recommendations, because to the best of my knowledge, so far few honourable senators have done so. 
It would be easy to stand here today and say that this is not a debate on abortion; that it is a debate on an ordinance. That would be a respectable point of view, but I think that on such a massive moral issue, an issue which affects something like a quarter of a million Australian women a year, those women are entitled to hear the views of their elected senators. We should not pad the issue away into slips as some honourable senators, probably for quite proper reasons, have chosen to do. I think we all should state our views on abortion because there will come a stage when all the politicians of this nation will have to face this question head on. 
I say that, as a philosophical concept. I am against abortion. I believe that abortion is abhorrent to all men and women of goodwill. I think one must state that. When an ovum is fertilised either through sexual intercourse or even through artificial insemination, then something new has begun. I think that is unchallengeable. If that something new that has begun is then terminated, then an act of deep consequence has been committed. I think one must concede that. 
I am in some difficulty in persuading myself exactly when life is begun.  Senator Georges  interjected to this effect while  Senator Walters  was speaking and she obliged him by saying that in her view life is begun when conception takes place. If that is the case, I find myself greatly confused by people like  Senator Walters  and many people in the Right to Life Association. I asked people in that association whether they were going to run a campaign with vigour similar to that used in this campaign to outlaw, to make illegal, the interuterine device, the IUD. When they responded negatively and said that they would not, I found a total lack of logic in that stance because, as I understand it, the IUD is not, technically speaking or medically speaking, a contraceptive device; it is an abortive mechanism. Once the IUD plays its part then conception has already begun, perchance only seconds or minutes or whatever before. But surely the principle is the same. It is in these areas where one finds so much lack of logic, so many different standards, not purposely taken up - 
I do not have the honourable senator's expertise in this subject so I am sorry I cannot comment on that. I believe the noble philosophy that I have espoused that abortion is abhorrent to all men and women of goodwill for the reason that I have given is viable only in a perfect society- and God knows we do not live in a perfect society. But even if we accept that, I was very impressed by the speech of  Senator Button  or, more particularly, with one part of it. He said that there are two conflicting philosophies in this debate on abortion, one of which is the right to life. Very few could argue against the right to life, and I will speak in a moment about what I believe the right to life means. I deplore the narrow meaning that the Right to Life people put on those words because I believe that they mean a lot more than simply stopping abortion. The other conflicting philosophy mentioned by  Senator Button  was the right of freedom of choice, the freedom of choice of a woman. To my knowledge, very few men are ever faced with the dilemma of whether they should have an abortion but women are. 

 -If Senator Walters could give me the names of those men I believe that a certain institution has a thousand dollars first prize for every man in this country who has ever had a baby or who has ever become pregnant. The terrible choice is with women. I recognise readily that a woman in circumstances of not wanting to have a child has a right to freedom of choice. So those two conflicting philosophies are involved in this debate very heavily. 
Let me examine for a moment what the term right to life' means. I am not talking about the Right to Life Association; I am talking about the words. I begin by stating what must seem to be almost stupidly trite: No child asks to be born. A child is born through an act of two other people and not by an act ofthe child. I believe that in relation to that child the term 'right to life' means that he should not be lonely, oppressed, diseased, underprivileged, hungry, orphaned, battered by drunken parents. Children have a right to life and a right to love. Some of those vigorous people who have written me 6,500 letters have used to get into my office the dirtiest tricks that I have encountered in 1 7 years in this Parliament. They have done so under false pretences. They have given false names of delegations and yet they protest honesty. I would like them to commit themselves to devoting an equal proportion of their time, of their vigour, of their ability and of their wit to caring for the children in orphanages and children who are poor. 
I would not expect any other reaction from a member of the National Country Party or an honourable senator who sits in that part of the chamber than that which I have just received. Although  Senator Archer  is not a member of the National Country Party, in some respects he outdoes members of the National Country Party in the outrageous remarks that he makes in this Senate. Those people who are sincere in campaigning against abortion should examine the way in which their time is apportioned and decide whether at least half of their time ought not to be devoted to the fostering of children from Asia- the children who are orphaned and the children whom I described earlier. In a perfect society those children of unwanted pregnancies- I am not suggesting that every unwanted pregnancy produces an unwanted child, but certainly a massive number of them do- would obtain the love, the care and the nourishment that other children receive. But we do not live in a perfect society, and that is why I propose to vote for the motion. 
The Australian Medical Association, which even  Senator Archer  would not suggest is a radical left-wing organisation, in its monthly magazine  Lancet  disclosed that in its view there are at least 200,000 unwanted pregnancies in Australia each year. Without going into the morality of that situation, I think one can conclude at least one thing, and that is that there is massive sexual ignorance in Australia today by both men and women. 
I was very disappointed when  Senator Harradine  withdrew from the list of speakers in this debate because I was relishing the opportunity of following him in the debate. 
The honourable senator has denied me that opportunity, and I am sorry that he has. If there are 200,000 unwanted pregnancies in Australia each year, it shows that there is massive sexual ignorance. 1 asked the groups from the Right to Life Association which were constantly in my office recently this question: Would you oppose the open display of contraceptive methods and advertising of contraceptives? I do not know whether those groups were stating the official policy of the organisation, but when confronted with that question they looked at me and said: 'Yes, we would'. I find a remarkable incongruity in those two situations. In fact, it passes my comprehension how anybody could come to that conclusion. 
I most certainly do. I have ultimate respect for  Senator Harradine  and all those people who espouse the remark which he just made by way of interjection. 
I am paying the honourable senator a compliment. Please allow me the courtesy of doing that. I have respect for  Senator Harradine  's code of morality in which he rushes to assume that an unwanted pregnancy is not necessarily due to sexual ignorance but to promiscuity or permissiveness. I respect  Senator Harradine  for having that view and that code of standards. What I denounce is that he wishes to impact his standards on everybody else in the country. I do not think he has the right to do that. That is why I opposed what he said by way of interjection. 
I refer again to the Right to Life Association. This is the last time that I shall do so. I refer to the six-year-old and seven-year-old children who have written to me in language, as was suggested by  Senator Mason,  which amounts to committing one of the most obscene acts that I have experienced in a long time. I have been sent- they did not do it; the people who put them up to it did it- photographs in technicolour of mutilated foetuses. That is obscene in any language. I cannot imagine a six-year-old child ever recovering from that kind of a blow. When I objected strenuously to members of that Association about that act I got this retort: 'It is a fact of life. They have to know sometime'. In my view, that is disgusting. Group sex and bestiality are facts of life, so why not show the six-year-old kids a burst of those as well? I wish to refer to some of those aspects of the report which have not been mentioned. It is because of these matters that I will be voting for the disallowance of this ordinance today. I will be voting in particular for  Senator Evans's  amendment, particularly that part of the amendment which refers to the implementation of the recommendations of this report of the Legislative Assembly. I remind every honourable senator on the Government side of the chamber who votes against  Senator Ryan's  motion and  Senator Evans's  amendment that, having in mind  Senator Rae  's contingent notice of motion, they are voting against the recommendations which I am about to read. The recommendations are as follows: 
That pre-abortion counselling shall be a requirement. 
That counselling must be non-directive. 
That a woman seeking a termination of pregnancy shall have the right to be accompanied by a friend or relative at the counselling session, but part of that session shall be with the woman alone. 
16) That in the case of a woman under the age of ^seeking a termination of pregnancy, a parent or guardian should be present for part of the counselling session. 
17) That in the case of a woman under the age of 16 the consent of a parent or guardian and that of the woman herself shall be required before the termination of pregnancy. 
That a multi-lingual pamphlet setting out all aspects covered in the counselling session shall be provided to all women at the conclusion of the counselling session. 
That there shall be not less than one week between counselling in the clinic and the performance of the termination. 
That at all times patients seeking and/or having terminations shall have their anonymity preserved. 
That the Capital Territory Health Commission shall compile statistics on all abortions performed . . . 
That the Minister for Health be asked to seek urgent consultation between - 
I am confused.  Senator Tate,  whom I respect, says that that is being done now. But the Minister said explicity and concisely in a letter sent to  Senator Ryan  that the recommendations of the committee of the Legislative Assembly are to be rejected. Why not accept these recommendations? Has any honourable senator so far seen anything objectionable in any of these recommendations? 
Another recommendation states that chemists in the Territory should be encouraged to display and to advertise in their premises nonprescription contraceptive methods.  Senator Harradine  is on record as saying he would oppose that. What moral right has a senator from Tasmania to determine the moral standards of Canberra and in particular whether the women of Canberra should or should not be able to see contraceptives advertised in chemists' windows?  Senator Harradine  's right to speak and to vote on this motion is very clouded. This issue surely affects the rights of the women of the Capital Territory. The Assembly recommends in regard to sex education that at least all Australian Capital Territory secondary level schools should conduct comprehensive human relations courses. To my knowledge no honourable senator opposing this motion today has said whether or not that is a bad thing. The Assembly recommends that appropriate education authorities and the Capital Territory Health Commission should liaise to determine guidelines for such courses. It is stated that the courses should be conducted by trained suitable teachers and that parents not wishing their child to take part in such courses should be allowed to contract out in writing on their child 's behalf. 
In conclusion let me say that I think every one of these recommendations-  Senator Hamer  said that there were 51- carry a great deal of common sense, but surely the whole point is that the question was investigated and adjudged by the democratically elected members of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. I am confounded to know what rights senators from Victoria, New South Wales or Western Australia have to support a government which says to the people of the Australian Capital Territory: 'We do not give a damn about what your elected representatives said after a 90-day survey. This is our moral judgment, and you will accept it'. To me that reeks of impertinence. That is why I am supporting  Senator Ryan  's motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Has no detailed Consumer Price Index survey on household goods and services been conducted since 1975-76; if so, does this reduce the accuracy of Consumer Price Index figures. 
When will the next detailed survey take place. 
I present the following petition from 54 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and Broadcasting Tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. and your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) Does the Supervising Scientist in control of environmental monitoring at the Ranger Uranium Mine live in Canberra. If so, will he move his permanent residence to the mining site. 
Was the Supervising Scientist trained in nuclear physics, rather than in biology. 
What special qualifications and experience does the Supervising Scientist possess to enable him to monitor adequately possible uranium waste, pollution and environmental damage at the site. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question concerning the several religious and pseudo-religious cults operating in Australia whose extremist and damaging practices may be not dissimilar to the sect in Guyana whose actions have just shocked the world. Would the Minister contemplate establishing a judicial inquiry to report on the activities of these cults in Australia ensuring, firstly, that no intrusion into or harrassment of genuine and non-harmful groups by the inquiry is permitted and that true freedom to worship is not impaired in any way and, secondly, that the criteria of such an inquiry includes the following: Whether the sect requires from members compulsory financial contributions to the cult or its 'spiritual' leader; whether physical or mental damage is exerted or threatened to cult members or their families; whether undue influence is placed on family structures to induce family breakups; and any other associated matters which the Government in its wisdom considers appropriate? 
I support the proposition put as a matter of public importance by  Senator Ryan  but would differ in respect of the inference that is inherent in the words, 'The Government's discriminatory actions towards the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed . . .'. That indicates that the Government is wilfully discriminating against the young. I would not agree with that, but I would disagree equally with Government speakers who have put their case reasonably but illogically in the sense that they constantly return to the use of the phrase 'long-term solution' in speaking of getting down inflation. I do not accept that proposition. I think that it overlooks the reality of the situation. We are now living in an entirely different economy, a different social economic order, a different technological order from that of the past, the classic economic cures which the Government is putting forward just will not solve the problem. For that reason the Australian Democrats say that the only long term solution of the problem is first to recognise that it is indeed long term, not just a temporary aberration, not just the result of Government policies- although they have contributed. It is a problem that cannot be solved without some form of long-term, indicative planning to try to construct a social economic order, a model which might represent the position in which Australia might find itself in the mid- 1 980s. 
I would like to examine briefly a little of the background. First, since 19S4 the population of Australia has increased by about 50 per cent, but in the 1 5 to 24-year age group it has increased by 90 per cent. So there has been a very rapid concentration of population in the 15 to 24-year age group. The staggering number of 250,000 young people will enter the work force each year for the next 10 years. A second development in the last ten years has been that more married women have entered the work force. I believe that tendency will increase, thus exacerbating the employment situation. 
Thirdly, machines have replaced human beings in the work place and will continue to do so at a frightening rate. There are two main reasons. One is unnatural. I am very critical- not for the first time- of the insanity of Clyde Cameron 's pace-setting techniques of 1 973 when he put the price of labour in this country way above the increase in productivity, and thus priced many people out of the employment market. There is a more fundamental reason. It is the question of automation, a problem which the Government does not seem to realise is upon us. It certainly has not been planning for it in any way. 
One notes the results of a frightening series of surveys that were conducted recently by three countries, West Germany, Japan and France. Each commissioned the survey independently. The question they asked the task force was: How many people in the clerical industries, in banking, insurance, the Public Service and business, will be made redundant by automation or computerisation within the next four years? It is almost spooky that the three independent inquiries came up with an almost identical figure- that 33 per cent of the clerical work force of Germany, Japan, France and the United Kingdom would be out of a job within the next four years. If one adds that to structural unemployment, amounting to 4 per cent, already in our work force, one can see that we have a chronic problem, one which by mid- 1982 could produce a two-class society. I do not disagree with those figures. When the results of technological change are added to the present situation we could have in 1982 a million unemployed. Then we would have a two-class society made up of those with jobs and those without jobs. 
What grieves me is that the Government seems not only to be doing nothing to assist the problem but also to be exacerbating it. At a time when 7 per cent of our work force is unemployed, and young people make up 40 per cent of that number, we still have an investment allowance, which is a direct invitation to employers and manufacturers to instal a machine rather than to employ a human being. The insanity goes even further. It extends to giving an investment allowance in respect of imported machines. The logic of that escapes me totally. Secondly, the Government continues to levy a payroll tax, which is a direct disincentive to any employer who has the choice, if he is expanding his business, of either installing a machine or employing a human being. It is a direct disincentive for him to employ a human being. 
In my view education has been too specially geared to narrow job training, with the result that rapid technological change has rendered the talents obtained by that education obsolete. Teenage unemployment in Australia today is four times the national average. Forty per cent of the unemployed are under 20 years of age. In this regard I disagree with my colleague,  Senator Lewis.  My information is that in the category of young unemployed Australia is the worst of all Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member countries except Italy. I think we ought to look very carefully at the divisions that exist in Italy now, at the disenchantment of the young, the two-class society and the growth of the Red Brigades and other extremist groups. Next year in Australia many young people will enter adulthood as economic wards of the state. Any state which tolerates such a situation will not for long remain a stable state. 
On the subject of stability, in 1975 the United Kingdom commissioned a study which showed that 5 1 per cent of the unemployed youth were known to police'. A recent Australian study revealed that 20 per cent of unemployed youth have police convictions, with up to 40 per cent being 'known to police'. The tragedy is that it is not their fault. It is the fault of those of us who sit in this place and mismanage the affairs of this country and do not plan ahead. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I will touch on some solutions to the problem. The Australian Democrats believe that no solution can be found to this problem unless all parties get together. A permanent task force consisting of representatives of all political parties must be formed. Perhaps that is a naive or even laughable suggestion, but how can we have continuity of policy unless all political parties reach at least a consensus? We have seen that in the last six years in this country with two changes of government, both changes being 180 degrees, in different directions. Employers must be represented on this tack force. It must be a permanent group consisting of representatives from the trade unions, the Public Service and farmers sitting together, not in a grandstanding exercise such as the exercise that will take place soon in Victoria, but in camera hearing evidence and trying to get together and reach a compromise. 
The Australian Democrats believe that manufacturing industry has to be assisted and protected. It is time we stopped kidding ourselves that the quarter of a million young people entering our work force can be absorbed in farming. The rural community has diminished from 40 per cent of Australia's population in 1912 to 8 per cent today. Most farmers are working for a negative wage. It cannot be the mining industry, which is capital intensive that absorbs these young people. Surely it cannot be the Public Service; one would hope not. It cannot be the tertiary industries or the tourist industry. In my view this leaves only one industry- the manufacturing industry. 
It could be but surely not to the tune of employing 250,000 young people a year. There must be a shorter working week in this country. Nothing is as inevitable as that, but to have 40 hours pay for a 35-hour working week would be catastrophic to the country and to all our export industries. The only solution is to have a task force representing all parties- the trade unions, employers and governments- each giving a little. Penalty rates must be looked at. In one industry alone, the hotel and catering industry, penalty rates have resulted in devastation to the tourist industry. Twelve thousand people have been sacked from that industry in the last two years because of penalty rates. I am not asking the trade unions to give up penalty rates for nothing but why can the Government and the employers not get together with the trade unions and say to them that penalty rates, and indeed casual rates, are destroying the economy and sending many decent people out of work. 
The Australian Democrats recently conducted a survey of department stores. Sixty-five per cent of the women working in those stores would prefer to work only two or three days a week. If that could happen it would create thousands of part time jobs for other women, but with the casual rates currently applicable it is not possible. I ask: Why can we not reduce the pensionable age optionally, first from 65 years to 64 years? We estimate that that would create vacancies equal to two per cent of the work force and would not cost the Government a penny because the extra amount it paid out in pensions would be saved on dole payments. 
We believe that the housing industry ought to be stimulated so as to stimulate the economy. In conclusion I repeat that none of these solutions or many of the others that could be put could be contemplated unilaterally by the Government, by the trade unions, by the employers or even by this Parliament. A permanent task force consisting of representatives of all parties is the only means by which we can solve the massive economic and sociological problem facing the unemployed people of Australia today, particularly the young. Only in that way can we construct social and economic models for the 1980s which are at least attainable. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Is the furniture removals and storage industry seriously dissatisfied with certain aspects of its dealings with the Department of Administrative Services in respect of removals under the responsibility of the Transport and Storage Division (Furniture Section). 
Does this dissatisfaction include discontent with: (a) procedures for settling disputed claims; and (b) a failure to enforce a reasonable time limit and other appropriate safeguards on persons claiming loss or damage due to removal. 
Will the Minister investigate the industry's complaints, with particular reference to legal responsibility for loss and damage during removal and the interpretation of the concept of negligence as applied by the Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) Is a Department of Social Security Field Officer legally entitled to request proof of identity when interviewing a person within his or her own place of residence. 
Is such a request normal practice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) Were applicants for the positions of Secretary-General and Executive Officer to the National Aboriginal Conference notified by telegram to attend for interview. 
Was  Mr David  Anderson so notified, either at his home address or at his place of employment; if not, why not 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Did the Victorian Synod of the Uniting Church recently express its concern regarding the effects of automation on employment; if so, is tins view indicative of widespread concern in the community in relation to this problem. 
What is the Government's estimate of the annual increase in the workforce, and the annual loss of jobs to automation, over the next decade. 
What action is proposed by the Government through new job-creation, training and re-training, and working sharing, to meet the situation. 
What are the Government's annual unemployment projections for the next decade. 
What action is proposed by the Government to ensure a reasonable living standard for families affected by future redundancy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the reason for the National Health and Medical Research Council's refusal to fund a research project entitled 'The Pharmacology of Cannabis in Laboratory Animals', being carried out at Sydney University's Pharmacology Department. 
Is this Australia's major research project on cannabis, and has it achieved an international reputation. 
Has the project ceased as a result of the refusal of funding. 
Will the Minister have this matter reconsidered, in view of the importance of the subject, evidenced by the number of recent Governmental inquiries into aspects of cannabis. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Was the National Aboriginal Conference Executive advised that  Mr David  Anderson, of S3 Eliza Street, Black Rock, Victoria, an applicant for the position of SecretaryGeneral to the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat (see also Question 1034, placed on notice 14 November 1 978 ) was out of the country ona study tour while interviews were being conducted; if so, who gave the Executive such information. 
Was  Mr G.  McNamara, the adviser from the Public Service Board appointed by the Minister to assist the Committee in its work, informed by  Mr Stuart  Murray, the other Aboriginal on the short list of applicants, that  Mr Anderson  was in the country and was able to be contacted at Christ College, Victoria. 
What information led the Executive to believe that  Mr David  Anderson was out of the country at the time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government any evidence of quota profit in respect of small to medium family cars? 
Have the holders of quotas for such vehicles denied the existence of such quota profit? 
If quota profit does not exist in respect of these vehicles, will the Government review the additional12'/i per cent impost on goods under quota? 
Has the Minister received representations which would indicate that import volumes are likely to fall significantly in 1979 because of the additional 12½ percent impost included in the Budget? 
What action will the Government take to ensure that importers are able to utilise their quota entitlement and hence supply the 20 per cent of the market that the Government has announced will be reserved for them? 
Will any fall in imports as a result of the 12½ per cent impost take place mainly in respect of small to medium family sized cars and hence remove the only source of competition to local manufacturers? 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State School children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 222 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that the sales tax as applied to articles handmade by artisans is unfair. 
An artisan is a handcraftsman or handcraftswoman who exercises a non-agricultural activity, revolving around the transformation of materials with his own handwork or that of his family. On craft, above all, the accent must be on design, practicability and quality, where the craftsman must perforce pay highly for his raw materials and time must not be a conditioning factor in the making of an article. 
This petition seeks the objective examination of the existing Sales Tax Acts in respect to persons seeking to earn their living by the labour of their hands alone. 
Every day skilled artisans are being forced out of their livelihood, not by the competition of machine made goods, not by the high price of materials, but by the injustice of antiquated sales tax laws. The artisan, thus taxed out of his living, will then go onto unemployment benefits, or worse still, to prostituting his craft by sacrificing his professional integrity, forcing him to lower his standards of workmanship in order to conform to existing laws. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should immediately create a sales tax exemption for all hand crafted articles. 
We also request that the current exemption limit of $ 1 ,400 and $1,000 respectively referred to in items 100-(1) and 100-(2) of the Sales Tax (Exemption and Classifications) Act 1935-1967, be immediately raised to a realistic figure, in line with current living standards and from then on to be periodically reviewed so as to keep pace with the Australian standard of living. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: 
Oil exploration in the Great Barrier Reef area, including all the possible effects of any such exploration. 
The Senate is debating a matter of public importance which the Opposition has brought forward, namely: 
The restoration by the Government of twice yearly indexation for all pensions and benefits under the social security and repatriation systems. 
This relates not only to age pensioners as there are a variety of others to which I shall refer in a moment. Not many speakers have referred to those yet. 
Before I begin, on this occasion I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and the Government Whips for including myself on the speakers list. I also wish to thank them on behalf of  Senator Harradine,  in his absence. I approached the acting Opposition Whip before and he said that his list was full. I am not complaining about that because the Opposition has been remarkably kind to members of the Australian Democrats since we got into this Parliament. I am just raising in passing the fact that  Senator Mason  and I, as the two Australian Democrat senators in this chamber, represent about one million voters. In fact, more people voted for the Australian Democrats than for the National Country Party of Australia. One in every eight Australians voted for our Party. I do not know what formula we can use so that we can have members of the minority parties and the independent honourable senator speaking in debates, but as we received over twelve per cent of the votes one would think that one-eighth of the speaking time would be reasonable. I raise this objection in principle. It does not seem right that we should be dependent on either of the Whips for the right to speak in this chamber.  Mr President,  we should be dependent on your call. Therein I immediately recognise the difficulty under which that places you because for the Senate to function in an orderly manner you have to have lists in front of you. After consultation with the two Whips it may be that we can regularise the situation and when we do get a formula that might help you in this dilemma, we will come to see you. 
In my policy speech in 1977 it was announced that the Australian Democrats policy was clearly not for the restoration or maintenance of sixmonthly indexation of pensions but for quarterly indexation of all pensions. We stand clear and unequivocal on that indexation as part of our policy for reasons I shall mention. I support the statements of  Senator Grimes  and of other speakers on this side of the Senate when they say that there is an even more serious aspect to this matter. That is a breaking of an overt promise by a Prime Minister. On the basis of that promise he wooed hundreds of thousands of people to vote for the Liberal Party and for the National Country Party. There is no question that this matter of indexation of pensions is one of the biggest things weighing in pensioners' minds, and it is one of the biggest things which influences them on how to vote at election time. 
To illustrate that situation let me go back to something about which  Senator Grimes  reminded the Senate and that was the part I played in the changing of Liberal Party thinking in 1975. When the Liberal Party was reforming its policies in those days I was the spokesman or shadow Minister for Social Security. Under  Mr Snedden  and subsequently under  Mr Fraser  we formed a committee, of which I was  chairman.  The way in which my committee operated was not necessarily to go only to bureaucrats to find out what was wrong with the social structure but to go out to the people actually in the field of social welfare. After all, they are the people who know the problems of people in society. In determining our social welfare policy we went to organisations such as the Catholic Family Welfare Bureau, the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Australian Council of Social Service, the Victorian Council of Social Service, various other social service councils around Australia, the society for the aging, the society for the crippled and pensioners associations. We really went into the hearts of people who were affected by social welfare. 
The significant thing was that every one of the organisations on which we called was unanimous as to the number one social reform needed in this country, and that was to index pensions to take the fear of the future out of the minds of pensioners who are totally or substantially resting on the Government for their livelihood. No organisation came up with any other proposition as a number one priority. Therefore, it was included in the policy speech made by  Mr Fraser  at the time of the 1975 election. The words that he used were the words that I had written for him and which had been approved unanimously by a party meeting of Liberal and National Country Party members and senators. The words were that the Liberal-National Country Party would bring instant and automatic indexation of pensions in line with the consumer price index. I think the words 'instant' and 'automatic' are fairly easily understood in the English language and to my mind, even by stretching one's imagination one could not believe that that means once each year, which is now the situation. In fact, it is worse than once each year because in most cases pensioners have to wait up to 16 months before the increases in the consumer price index are reflected in their incomes because of the time lag. 
The reason these organisations said that this was the number one priority was that pensioners feared two things. This fear is a constant companion of all age pensioners. The two components of this fear are death and their future security, their future income support. To take away that priority after promising it is a matter which we regard as reprehensible. That is what is being done, notwithstanding a firm promise by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the last election on which he must have won hundreds of thousands of votes- possibly millions of votes. To the Australian Democrats to break that promise is an act that is not to be commended. Let me give some figures as to the number of people affected. I have just taken out these figures today, and I am surprised at the numbers. There are 1.3 million age pensioners in Australia and an additional 30,000 wives of those pensioners are affected by this move. If I have erred on the side of conservatism in relation to those on unemployment benefits who might be affected it is because the junior rates are not indexed, so I say a quarter of a million people on unemployment relief are affected by this move. There are 485,000 repatriation pensioners affected by this move and 188,000 service pensioners. A grand total of something like 2.5 million human beings in this country were resting on an assumption that when  Mr Fraser  and his Government were re-elected they would continue indexing those pensions at least once every six months. It was a fair assumption because the Prime Minister said that he would retain that indexation. Now, that promise has been broken. Out of 7.4 million voters, 2.3 million is a substantial number to be affected by a broken promise. My thoughts and those of the Australian Democrats on this matter are well known. As I have said, it was in our policy speech that quarterly adjustments should be implemented. 
I want to refer to a matter which I believe is even more significant than has been mentioned so far in this debate. We are supposed to have in the Parliamentary Press Gallery the doyen of political journalists in the country, and I believe we have. But I have said many times that I think it is a bad thing that journalists are allowed by their newpapers to remain here too long, because after they are here for a certain time they, too, accept the cynicism that is Canberra. They accept the farce that is Parliament. When an event happens that threatens the very power of this democratically elected institution- the Parliament- they do not even notice that it has occurred. Such an event occurred last week. I should like to put it on the record. 
The Liberal and National Country parties considered at a party meeting a statement printed by the three most responsible Australian newspapers.  Mr Fraser  was reported as saying to  Mr Goodluck,  the member for Franklin, who gave notice that he intended to introduce a private member's Bill the purpose of which was to restore six-monthly indexation: 'Even in the unlikely event that you get a majority to pass your private member's Bill, the Government will not fund it'. I have never before heard such a statement come from a government leader in any of the Western democracies. Certainly no Prime Minister of this country has ever issued such a statement. What does it mean? It means that the head of the Executive Government in this country has said: 'I do not care what Parliament does. You can pass as many Bills as you like but we, the Executive, will have the final say'. But not one of these political pundits in this Press Gallery picked it up. I have not heard any member of any party pick it up. That is one of the most significant statements I have heard. 
I have listened to and read speeches in the Senate and in the House of Representatives delivered by members of parliament who were seeking genuinely and sincerely to uphold the rights of the Parliament. The speeches have been fairly uniform in their content. They have said that the traditions of our Westminster system are protected by three sources of power in our country- the judiciary which interprets the laws, the Executive which frames the laws, and the Parliament which passes the laws. Every  speaker  on this subject says that these three sources of power must always be kept distinct so that one can have a check and a balance on the others. I have heard some magnificent speeches in this Senate which claims its independence from the Executive. Those speeches state that once the Executive gains control of the Parliament it will be the end of the Westminster system as we know it. 
What did the Prime Minister say? At least in philosophical terms he was guilty of contempt of the Parliament, because what he, the Prime Minister, said was this: 'I do not care what Parliament passes. I do not care what a majority of the democratically elected representatives of the people say by way of vote. That does not mean a damn to me or to the Executive. The only thing that matters in this country, the only thing that will pass in legislation is what I, the Prime Minister, and what we, the Cabinet, agree to. ' I sometimes wonder what is wrong with us as parliamentarians because we go through this charade of coming to the Parliament as the elected representatives of the people and we allow the head of the Executive Government to make a statement such as the one to which I have referred. 
So to compound the error, I issued a Press release on 13 February. It was placed in every Press box in the Press Gallery. I think the case 1 have enunciated is unanswerable. The Prime Minister did say on this question of indexation of pensions that he did not care what Parliament said. Yet, to my knowledge, not one newspaper in Australia picked it up or printed it. Having made that additional point which is pertinent to this debate, I repeat that we of the Australian Democrats pledge ourselves to support the Australian Labor Party in any moves it might want to make in conformity with the Standing Orders in an effort to force the Government in some way to honour the promise on which it won millions of votes in 1977. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 84 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Initiate necessary action for a referendum to be held to amend the Constitution to provide for Citizen's Initiative, on the following conditions: 
If a specified percentage of the voters ( for example 2 per cent) sign a petition asking that a referendum be held on a certain question, then the Federal Government would be obliged to hold that referendum, and the result would become law. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That inspite of numerous measures taken by various governments, unemployment in the country has not significantly declined. 
As a result, supplies of both goods and services have declined; human resources are wasted, capital resources are not used and natural resources are left under-developed. 
Both local and overseas experience shows that prosperity is encouraged when taxes, which penalise production are replaced by taxes which provide incentives for productivity. These also provide disincentives to idle speculation such as that which results in so called 'windfall profits' from land price increases. 
The reduction of Income-tax, Sales-tax and Payroll tax is known to reduce the costs of production and to stimulate demand. 
It is also known that when Land Tax or Council Rates are raised on the unimproved site value of land, then the development of vacant land and under-developed slum areas is stimulated. 
It follows then, that the gradual replacement of taxes on production with taxes on non-production will create new employment, reduces the costs of production, reduces the rate of interest, the cost of housing and stimulates all industries. 
We wish to point out that the replacement of production penalising taxes is a very practical proposal. According to official Municipal Valuations, it is estimated that unimproved site values have increased from $37,000m in 1973-74 to $67,000m by 1976-77. This represents $30,000m so called windfall profits' which was completely unrelated to productive improvements. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should act to relieve unemployment by a Taxation Reform to replace taxes on production with taxes which provide incentives for the increased supply of both goods and services. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 83 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: Oil Exploration in the Great Barrier Reef area, including all the possible effects of any such exploration. 
At the outset I say that I am disturbed to learn that neither the Liberal Party, the National Country Party nor the Labor Party is prepared to support the Australian Democrats in this motion. We believe that that is a very disturbing development in the arguments surrounding the Great Barrier Reef and the exploration for oil therein. To those who read  Hansard  and to those who are listening to the broadcast of this debate, might I explain why the Australian Democrats believe that the reference of a matter as important as this to a Senate standing committee is so vital. Those who listen to these broadcasts might sometimes get a little disgusted or, if 'disgusted ' is too strong a word, a little disenchanted with the way in which politicians behave when they are in the chamber of the House of Representatives or the Senate. I readily concede that the behaviour of honourable senators, their decorum and their dignity are not to be compared with the outrageous conduct that quite often takes place in the House of Representatives. But sometimes listeners to these broadcasts do become disenchanted with Parliament per se. 
One of the few remaining features of the Westminster system as we have it in Canberra is that even though partisan politics are practised on the floor of the Senate and in the House of Representatives, when matters are referred to a committee such as the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, the members of the committees quite often- in fact, more often than not- lose their political identity and are able to reach a consensus. In my view the most valuable work done in Canberra by parliamentarians is done on such committees. In my view, while the Executive is all powerful and, as I pointed out in a speech last week, while the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  says: 'I do not care what Parliament passes in relation to the indexation of pensions; the Executive or the Cabinet won't fund it', as he said recently, it is beyond doubt that Parliament is simply a rubber stamp. Sometimes I wonder why we do not save the taxpayers a lot of money and have Parliament meet just a few times a year, say about twice a year, and simply rubber stamp the actions of the Executive, because that is the total result anyway, and devote the taxpayers' money to such valuable exercises as the activities of the Senate standing committee that I have just mentioned. 
If the Senate were to accept my proposition tonight that this most important matter of drilling for oil on the Great Barrier Reef or in the area of the Great Barrier Reef should be referred to a Senate standing committee, that would virtually put a stopper on any deal that might have been done with oil companies by the Government, by a Federal Minister, by the Queensland Premier, by a Queensland Minister or by anybody else surreptitiously to drill for oil not on the Reef, because to my mind the assurances have been categoric enough to ensure that even the Prime Minister would not break that promise, but in the Reef area. It is the suggestions of drilling in the Great Barrier Reef area that disturb me. The suggestions that have been made as to the exploration for oil in the Reef area bother me almost as much, if not as much, as the suggestion of drilling on the Reef itself. So the operative word in the motion I have moved tonight on behalf of the Australia Democrats concerning oil exploration in the Great Barrier Reef area is ' area '. 
Let us just explore what the word 'area' means. I did not get much joy from the Prime 
Minister's answer to a question last week from  Mr Barry  Cohen in the House of Representatives.  Mr Cohen  posed this question to the Prime Minister 
Is the Prime Minister aware of any exploration, drilling, testing or rnining proposed for the Great Barrier Reef? If not, will he give an unequivocal denial that there will be any such actions on the Reef and proceed with the declaration of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park? 
I hope I do not misquote the Prime Minister, but he certainly did give an unequivocal assurance. He said: 
There will not be drilling on the Reef. 
For that we can be pleased. But he then went on to say- and this significant remark gives the Australian Democrats great concern: 
Quite plainly honourable members will understand that if we are talking about the environment of the Reef but not the Reef itself we have to ask the question: Where does it begin; where does it end? Are we talking about one or two kilometres, 20 kilometres or SO kilometres? 
That remark rather terrifies me. 
I propose to do so in a moment. But I say to  Senator Missen  that what I do read further on only compounds and exacerbates my fears, which I hope to explain in a moment If we take that particular remark by the Prime Minister, it means that the Prime Minister, in his own mind, does not exclude the possibility that it may not be harmful to drill one or two kilometres from the Reef. I repeat the words 'may not'. I hope that I am not being unfair to the Prime Minister, but I repeat that he said: 
Where does it begin; where does it end? Are we talking about one or two kilometres, 20 kilometres or SO kilometres? 
One must assume from that that at least in the Prime Minister's mind the outside limit at the moment is 50 kilometres. The Australian Democrats believe that it would be catastrophic to allow drilling that distance from the Reef. The Prime Minister then made what we regard as another significant remark. He said: 
There is a view that more technical knowledge is required in the areas off the Reef. 
With that we would not disagree. That conforms with the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources in 1970 or 1971 from which I will read in a moment. I do not want to denigrate the Prime Minister and it is not my intention to do so. I put it at its lightest when I say that I am at the very least suspicious when the Prime Minister of this country, with his previous record of upholding promises or, to put it another way, of not upholding promises, makes a statement like this: 
There is a view that more technical knowledge is required in the areas off the Reef. 
If the Prime Minister wants that technical knowledge to be obtained, why has he asked his Liberal senators not to agree to the motion moved by me tonight on behalf of the Australian Democrats? That is precisely the matter with which my motion deals. It refers to oil exploration in the Great Barrier Reef area, including all the possible effects of any such exploration. That is all that we wish. One would think that all Liberal senators, particularly those from Queensland, would find that resolution totally unobjectionable. 
I go now to some of the historical aspects of oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef. The first rnining lease on the reef was granted in August 1865 for seven years by the then Governor of New South Wales to a fellow named Crowther to mine guano- I hope that nobody asks me what guano is because I think I would be offending the forms of the Senate if I described it- on Raine Island, which is at the northernmost tip of the Reef. In 1967 a mining application was lodged to remove coral from Ellison Reef, for purposes of sugar cane farming. After an uproar the mining warden recommended against the application. That same year saw the first moves towards oil exploration on the Reef. The Gorton Government, to its eternal credit, instituted a royal commission on the area. It reported in 1974. Sub.sequently, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority was established and in 1975 the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act was passed. If I am not mistaken, credit for that should be given to the Labor Government of the day, so I pay tribute to Prime Minister Gorton's vision and to the wisdom of that Government for introducing that Act, which allows the Authority to recommend that an area from just north of Fraser Island to the tip of Cape York be commissioned as a national park. The Senate ought to know that already various rnining leases have been granted but that they have not yet been acted upon. Those leases lie in the hands of Australian Gulf Oil, California Asiatic Oil Company, Texico Overseas Petroleum and Gulf Interstate Overseas Ltd. 
The issue again came to a head on Christmas Eve last following an outrageous statement by the National Party Minister for Mines, Energy and Police in Queensland,  Mr Camm.  That statement was then endorsed by the National Party Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  but was contradicted by various scientists, by the Queensland Conservation Council, the Australian Littoral Society and many members of various other societies, including the Marine Park Authority. This issue may be divided into two parts: first, whether or not oil has deleterious effects on coral or fish; and, secondly, why the Government has stalled in regard to declaring the area as a national park, which would preclude  mining  operations. I will come to that in a moment. I would like to deal with the statement of  Mr Camm  in some detail. On Christmas Eve he said: 
A number of experiments on the possible effects of crude oil on coral has shown no damage has been caused. In some instances growth had been encouraged. 
The inference from  Mr Camm's  statements is that one of the best things that could happen to the Great Barrier Reef would be for some sort of oil spillage to occur and thus encourage the growth of coral. That has only to be stated to be seen as totally absurd. He went on: 
Off-shore oil drilling is going on throughout the world with no damage to marine life, and I can see no possible reason to oppose off-shore drilling in this State. 
He further stated: 
. technological developments in off-shore drilling had improved tremendously in the last decade, virtually eliminating the possibility of a major spill. 
As far as the Australian Democrats are concerned, we believe that the Great Barrier Reef belongs not only to Australia but also to the world. I will not deliver a speech couched in such flowery phrases as 'It is our national heritage'. One does not have to state that, but one must say that we in Australia owe a debt to the world for the precious asset of the Great Barrier Reef. I will not be satisfied with the claim of some National Party Minister, 'We have virtually eliminated the possibility of a major spill. Let us trust private enterprise. They won't get us into trouble. Technology today will stop a major oil spill, will prevent any damage.' If 'Let's trust private enterprise or bureaucrats controlled by Ministers' is the only criterion we are to have in considering oil drilling on the Barrier Reef, I should quote from page 1 of tonight's Melbourne  Herald  the report of an occurrence which to me borders on a scandal. The heading is: 'Oil Pipe Breaks in Strait'. As I understand it on Saturday last- and today is Wednesday- at 6 o'clock or thereabouts in the morning an oil pipeline was broken in Bass Strait at the Esso-BHP well. It was the first spill from Victoria's Bass Strait drilling field. The report reads: 
It happened when a work boat accidentally dragged its anchor across the pipeline between the Halibut and Mackeral Rigs. 
That is how easily an oil spill can occur. It can occur because of human fallibility. One wonders about the degree of care that is taken in Bass 
Strait when an anchor dragged by a work boat can cause a spill. Fortunately, the size of this spill, by world standards, was not great, but it was not small. The slick was 1  Vi  kilometres long by half a kilometre wide. It moved a distance of 10 kilometres before breaking up of its own accord off Sale. I wonder why that sort of information was suppressed from early Saturday morning until Wednesday afternoon. Did the Victorian Government suppress it? If so, why? If Esso-BHP suppressed it, it would be even more unpardonable. 
So that I can put into context the way in which private enterprise, and indeed bureaucrats, sometimes regard oil spills almost with nonchalance and gay abandon, let me amuse the Senate by reading a few other explanations. A spokesman for the Department of Minerals and Energy, which I presume is a State department, was asked whether his department had planned to make a public statement about the shek. The spokesman said: 
No, it was a non-event as far as we were concerned. 
That is the danger of bureaucracy. An oil slick  lib  kilometres long by half a kilometre wide, proceeding for a distance of 10 kilometres is, according to a bureaucrat in the Victorian Public Service, a non-event. The report states that he added: 
There was no need to make a statement- my concern was to get the pipeline repaired as soon as possible. 
Well done, but I would have thought that he had a bounden responsibility to make a statement. The following incredible comment by him is also reported: 
He said no sea life or beach areas had been damaged by the oil. 
How the hell would he know that no sea life had been damaged by the oil? The spill was  Vh  kilometres by half a kilometre in area. How would he know? Then, to add a little charm to the amusing statements concerning this mishap, the spokesman for Esso added this pearl: There was no danger to sea life because some seals who lived in a mooring barge near where the breakdown occurred had not moved and did not appear to have been affected by the slick. That shows with what nonchalance private enterprise, and indeed the bureaucracy, can treat the danger of oil slick. That is why the Australian Democrats are even more deeply concerned about some of the more outrageous statements of Queensland Ministers concerning drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The  Sydney Morning Herald,  one of our most responsible newspapers, said on 26 December in relation to  Mr Camm  's comments:  the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  is understood to have strongly endorsed  Mr Camm's  views after discussing the issue last week. 
But then that notorious small 1 liberal,  Mr Russell  Hinze, Queensland's Minister for Local Government and Main Roads had to weigh in. He called immediately- at a meeting on 12 February 1979- for a beginning to off-shore drilling in the Great Barrier Reef. He criticised as selfish the attitudes expressed by Queensland conservation movements. He dismissed warnings of a possible threat to the reef as alarmist nonsense. Within 10 days the news services carried extensive reports of two major oil spills overseas. I have brought to light in the Senate tonight another one much closer to home. When the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act was passed in 1975 by the Australian Labor Party Government people around Australia who feared for the future of the reef, and its exploitation by political and commercial bandits, breathed a sigh of relief and thought: 'Thank God the reef is saved'. But nearly four years later, up to this time, not one square kilometre of reef has actually been declared as a marine park. While the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act is in existence it is virtually non-effective until a Federal Minister declares a certain area as a marine park. That declaration by itself prevents any drilling for oil of any description. 
I cannot vouch for this source, but it is from one of Australia's most responsible newspapers, the  Australian Financial Review.  On 2 January 1979 it stated: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  has intervened to stop the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority from making a decision which would prohibit oil drilling on a section of the reef.  Mr Fraser  has written to the Authority directing it not to declare the Capricornia section of the reef a marine park until an interdepartmental committee has reviewed the relevant legislation. 

 -By Mr Fraser? 

I apologise to the Prime Minister for even quoting that article. Had I known that I would not have quoted it. That statement certainly conflicted with the proposal by the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Groom,  to declare the first part of the marine park. I hope that  Senator Missen  will contribute to this debate, and I thank him for his interjection. But I plead with him or with  Senator Jessop  that when they speak, will they please advise the Senate as to why, four years after the passing of that Act, not one kilometre of the reef has been declared. I would be very pleased to hear an explanation from  Senator Missen  or  Senator Jessop. 

 -Mr Deputy President, may I ask the honourable senator why not? 
I thank you for your indulgence,  Mr Deputy President.  I am sure  Senator Missen  and I would agree that a declaration within the terms of that Act equals protection from oil drilling and that has not been denied. The reason for our immediate concern is that again, from a most respectable Australian newspaper, the  Australian Financial Review,  dated 16 January 1979 there is a banner headline- I think that is the way to describe itwhich states: 
Something very sacred '. Anthony rejects mining on reef. 
It goes on to state: 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Doug  Anthony, yesterday firmly rejected any proposal for mining or oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. 

 Mr Anthony is  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party of Australia and is presumably close to the deliberations of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen, Mr Camm,  and  Mr Hinze.  The very next day, 17 January in the  Australian Financial Review  we have a photograph of the handsome countenance of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  The headline states: 
Drilling off reef 'possible '-Webster. 

 Senator Webster is in the same party as  Mr Anthony  and he is speaking on the same subject, but the statement is entirely different. On the same day in the Melbourne  Age,  another newspaper noted for its responsibility, respectability and integrity we find the statement: 
A spokesman for the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said drilling could in future be allowed. 
In the light of those statements I do not think that the Australian Democrats, and those who support this motion, could be blamed for confessing utter confusion about the intentions of the Government or of the National Party on this question of the Great Barrier Reef. We are even more disturbed to read a statement attributed to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I quote from an Australian Associated Press summary which goes to Party leaders and Whips in this place.  Senator Missen,  in spite of the Prime Minister's repeated denials- I accept the honourable senator's statement on behalf of  Mr Fraser-  it states: 
And yesterday,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  confirmed reports that the Queensland Government was negotiating with the Commonwealth to be given back its rights of control over at least limited areas of the coastal seabed, with the possibility of future oil drilling in mind. 
I can only draw one of two conclusions from that evidence. The first is that  Mr Fraser  has forgotten or had not been informed that somebody in his Government is negotiating with  Mr BjelkePetersen,  or that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has fantasised the whole affair and that no discussions or negotiations are going on. The other conclusion is that one or other of those gentlemen is misleading the public. To put it at its worst, he is telling lies. 
-I concede that that would scarcely be possible. If  Senator Missen  is not prepared, able, or does not have the information to respond to the former challenge that I issued to him of why a declaration has not been made- I respect his reasons for that- I ask him to please clear up this apparent inconsistency. I simply ask him a question in crystal clear terms. Are negotiations taking place between the Queensland Government and the Prime Minister about taking over parts of the Great Barrier Reef or its area for oil drilling?  Mr Deputy President,  I again ask for your indulgence. Will  Senator Missen  be able to respond to that question when he speaks in this debate? 
Honourable senators on the Government side are notorious for the thunder of silence they keep in such matters. I turn briefly to the excellent report that was presented by a select committee of the Senate in 1971. There were so many distinguished senators on it. We note with sadness that some of the members of that committee have died since the report's publication. It is called the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. There is a special section which is excellent on the Great Barrier Reef. Among other things it states: 
That, to date, no single method or combination of methods of cleaning upoil spills has been completely successful and all such methods are expensive. 
It goes on further to say: 
That the toxicity of detergents available to counteract oil spillages may at times be of paramount importance . . . 
It goes on to say how incredibly expensive those detergents are. Then it states: 
That current knowledge of the Reef, including charting, charting of tides, geology, biology and ecology is inadequate. 
That the knowledge of the effect of oil or other  . . compounds on coral and other marine life in the area is extremely limited. 
Those are the findings of the Committee. This is what it concludes and recommends: 
That an intensive research campaign, in which all the marine disciplines must be involved, be proceeded with immediately. This program should be extended to enable assessment of the long term value of the Reef and its environs as a major tourist project and food producing area. 
The Committee's final recommendation is this: 
That, until sufficient information has been gathered and it can be proved beyond reasonable doubt that off-shore exploration for, or exploitation of, petroleum fields on the Reef or in the waters surrounding the Reef is unlikely to cause damage to the Reef and its marine life, appropriate legislative action be taken to prohibit exploration for, and exploitation of, petroleum in the province area of the Reef. 
To my knowledge, that sort of intensive research campaign has not been conducted. We still do not have sufficient information to justify going against the recommendations of that report. I just wonder, in conclusion, whether I have the authority of my colleague,  Senator Jessop,  to comment on the wording of his amendment. I was given a copy of it but I do not know whether it was given to me in private. 

 - Senator Jessop would prefer that I did not mention it. 
No, I will bow to  Senator Jessop  'swishes. 
-We all like to adhere to the courtesies of the Senate.  Senator Jessop  paid me the courtesy of giving me a copy of the amendment he proposes to move.  His  amendment is totally unacceptable to the Australian Democrats. An editorial in the Melbourne  Age  reads: 
The Government - 
That is, the Fraser Government-  stood up to the miners on Fraser Island, and won public credit for doing so. Likewise, it should stand up against the potential despoilers of the Barrier Reef. There is no room for compromise. 
That editorial, more than anything else, eloquently sums up the position of the Australian Democrats and the reason that we ask the Senate to pass tonight this motion which seeks to refer this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the motion seconded? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 

 -Yes, Mr Acting Deputy President. I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Evans.  I am sure that he did so unwittingly and, even though it does not involve a massive point, I want to put the record straight.  Senator Evans  said that during the election campaign I had complained bitterly about the inability of my party to obtain funds and to obtain space in newspapers. The first statement is true: I did complain bitterly about the inability of my party to get funds simply because it was the only party to engage in open funding. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Chipp is not raising a point of order,  Senator Georges.  He is claiming to have been misrepresented and is making a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! I extend a courtesy to  Senator Chipp  to give some background to his claim of misrepresentation. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President. Senator Georges  must have missed what I said. I said that  Senator Evans  had made two statements about what I said during the election campaign, one of which was true. The second one- that I had complained bitterly about newspapers not giving my party space in its columns- is untrue. I have never complained about that. In fact, I have said quite the opposite, that is, that the Australian media has been impeccably fair to the Australian Democrats since its inception. 
by leave- I am sure that  Senator Carrick  did not deliberately avoid  Senator Wriedt  's question. I wanted to seek leave to make a statement on this subject now, but I was assured by the Opposition Whip that an undertaking had been given by the Government that this debate would be resumed in the next sitting week or at a very early opportunity.  Senator Wriedt  asked  Senator Carrick  a question about that, but such an undertaking was not given. I seek an undertaking from  Senator Carrick  that this debate will be resumed either during the next sitting week or very soon thereafter. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesMinister for Education)- by leave- In order to facilitate the seeking of leave by  Senator Wriedt  to continue his remarks later, my intention was to indicate that the Government intended that at an early date a full debate should take place. 
I guess that I will never learn. I have been in politics for 17 years and every time the newspapers report that a statement on foreign affairs will be delivered by either the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs I cannot resist tingling with excitement. After all, it is one of the most important statements to be made in a House of Parliament. However, I always feel disappointed when the statement has been made. That is not necessarily a criticism of the Minister of the day who made that statement because normally all that a Minister can do in a parliament under our Westminster system is make a statement which provides an excellent basis for a study group discussion. It gives no information. It gives no indication of the discussions that have taken place between heads of state or between Foreign Ministers. Sometimes at best it might state a government position or a philosophy or contain a bias. 
It is those aspects of the Minister's statement to which I address myself this afternoon. A statement, therefore, does not do much good. I can understand that. It throws no new light on events, it cannot provide confidential information. But a statement can do some harm, not only in what it says but also in what it does not say. I am critical of  Mr Peacock's  statement in one or two areas. I will deal firstly with what it does not say. I deplore the absence of any condemnation, except in what the Minister meekly and weakly said of the monstrous action of the Vietnamese Government in sponsoring the flood of refugees out of the country, thus exacerbating the problems of other countries in trying to solve the internal problems of Vietnam. 
No, but as I understand it, the Vietnamese Government was virtually encouraging the exodus of certain of its citizens, particuarly those of Chinese descent, and then extracting a price- blood money- from those people so that they could leave the country. I am not here to take sides this afternoon, but that sort of action ought to be deplored. 
Inasmuch as the Australian Labor Party supported North Vietnam in the recent conflict, I appeal to  Senator Georges  to look with an air of objectivity and fairness at that country's present actions. For my part, I absolutely denounce that action which virtually trades in human beings. I am sorry that the Minister was not stronger in his condemnation of the Vietnamese Government. Secondly, this statement does some harm in that it states these pious words: 
The Government is committed to work for peace and the reduction of tension. That commitment is global. 
In the light of the lack of action with regard to Indonesian aggression in Timor, that statement is full of hypocrisy. I will refer further to that matter later in my speech. I compliment  Senator John  Wheeldon on his speech on this matter. To my mind, it was one of the best speeches on foreign affairs that I have heard since I have been a member of this Parliament. I totally agree with his plea to the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament not to take sides in these matters that are threatening the security of the world at the moment. The wisdom of that advice can be seen in the light of the mistake that the United States of America made in taking sides with the previous regime in Iran. I should have thought that Australia should not blindly follow the advice of the United States of America. I was disappointed that the Prime Minister of this country did not publicly deplore the recent statements by the beleaguered  President  of the United States during the conflict in Vietnam that the United States could not stand by and see this happen. What the hell could he do except mouth some words? What did he mean by 'not stand by'? That sort of statement seems to me just to add to the game of brinkmanship which too many nations are playing today. I should hope that we would be objective and independent in our appraisal of foreign situations. 
As  Senator Wheeldon  so eloquently said in his speech, one did not need to be a genius in foreign affairs to know that the regime in Iran was incredibly repressive, that civil liberties were being annihilated everywhere in that country. Yet only a year ago we heard the unfortunate remark of Jimmy Carter, something to this effect: Thank God we have a politically stable regime in Iran which assists in the stability of that region'. That statement ought then to have been deplored by an objective, independent Prime Minister or Foreign Minister of Australia. I know that the Liberal Party of Australia still suffers from a hangover of the words of  Sir Robert  Menzies, said many years ago, that the most precious piece of paper in our archives is the ANZUS treaty. I dispute that, I hope not irresponsibly. I have little doubt that if Australia's territorial integrity were attacked by a neighbour the United States would come to our aid in some form or other. But I refuse to believe- I am not being offensive to our American allies- that it would do so on the basis of the ANZUS treaty. It would do so simply in its own self-interests so that this 'bastion in the South Pacific' would not fall into unfriendly hands. 
Indeed it would. I prefaced my remarks by saying that I hope I am not being offensive to the Americans. The point I am making- obviously not as well as I had wished- is that we should not just follow the Americans in everything they do, on every statement they make. Do not let us back every nation the Americans back simply because of the ANZUS treaty. The Americans in all their wisdom in the past have been proved palbably wrong in their assessments on so many occasions. I am sometimes disturbed at the Americans' dependence on and confidence in the regime in Saudi Arabia. I should have thought that the repressive nature of that regime, whilst perhaps not comparable to that of the Shah, is again suspect. So much of the stability of that region hangs on Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil supplier. That sort of philosophy on the part of this Government was emphasised in this pan of  Mr Peacock  's statement: 
Until very recently- although its regime was repressiveIran was an important force for order and stability in an extremely volatile area. Any change in the political configuration of the Gulf region which were to jeopardise access to energy resources would represent a major threat to the economic well-being of the West. 
That sort of statement worries me. Almost every foreign affairs article I read in the last 12 months pointed to the possible instability of the regime in Iran. One does not have to be a student of foreign affairs to question how there can be stability in such a country, where there is repression and where there are diverse religious political groups; and when one knows that Russia and other great powers are trying to get into countries like Iran where torture is practised and where the secret police is as notorious as any in the world. I am disturbed that the Foreign Minister is naive enough to say that the Government conceded that there was stability in that country. I wonder to what extent we rely on our own intelligence sources. I wonder whether we blandly follow the Americans on every occasion. 
Another criticism that I wish to make of the statement and, indeed, of many of the speeches of Government members is that I have detected a pro-China bias and an anti-Soviet bias. That disturbs me a great deal. 
It is so. The honourable senator might dispute that there has been a pro- China bias or an anti-Russia bias, but he cannot dispute that I have detected it. Maybe I am wrong, but that has been my reaction to reading the Minister's statement. I have heard every speech delivered on this subject by Government senators. That apparent bias does bother me because I believe that it means virtually that they are taking sides. If we are talking about selfinterest, that attitude runs directly contrary to the views expressed very strongly by the Prime Minister when he vigorously attacked the Soviet Union as being a threat to peace in the Indian Ocean. That was followed a year or so ago by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  making an even stronger attack on the Soviet Union and speaking of the dangers of its presence in the Indian Ocean.  His  statement was even too strong for the Prime Minister, who asked him to withdraw part of it. 
If we are talking in terms of self-interest, it seems strange to me that we should be alienating publicly the country that we name as the greatest danger to our security. Again I agree with  Senator Wheeldon  that, in this delicate matter of foreign affairs, we should be seen to be evenhanded and we should not take sides. I quoted a statement made by  Senator Messner,  when he said that surely our foreign policy should be determined where our interests rely heavily on trade. I wonder whether that is the reason that this pro-China bias is apparent in the statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and in the speeches made by Government senators. 
I suppose one could argue that if we see China as a potential massive trading partner of the future, which it is- if the supporters of one's party see China in that light- there might be a philosophy of let us not be nasty to China because it might affect our trade negotiations. But if foreign policies and foreign philosophies are based on that kind of expedient argument I think we will get ourselves into diabolical trouble. I agree that there is little if anything, we can do militarily. As I said, we could have deplored the United States President's inflammatory brinkmanship, the rather pathetic statement that they cannot stand by. 
The other night I was rather sickened to watch on television the laughing rulers in Vietnam when they declared that they would fight to the last man. I remind the Senate that politicians cause wars but very seldom fight in them. Millions of people are killed in wars in which they are not personally involved and in which they have no personal enmity. That is why war is the ultimate obscenity. Human beings slaughter each other because of the whim, the selfishness and the lack of tolerance of politicians of opposing nations who send other people to war. 
If we are talking about trade, let us be fair dinkum about using our trade as a barrier. I know that there are some members of the Liberal Party of Australia- I do not think any members of the Australian Labor Party- who have waged a concerted campaign to get back on Russia for its alienation of the civil rights of the Jewish people in that country. I totally support that condemnation. I debated with one of those Liberals on television on  Monday Conference  the suggestion that we should use all our resources to try to prevent Moscow from being the venue for the next Olympic Games. I think to do that would be a pathetic way of going about international relations. Politicians of the world have fouled up almost every decent thing in the world. The one area left which is decent is that a contest can be held between young people competing on the sporting field, where politics is forgotten. But now pressure is being applied by people who are saying: 'Let us take the Olympic Games away from Moscow; let us boycott the Olympic Games because Russia is being beastly to the Jews'. 
If we are fair dinkum about that sort of thing we can use our trade weapon. As I understand it, Australia has a more than favourable balance of trade with Russia. If we want to teach the Russians, the Soviets, some son of lesson and to tell them that they are violating the human rights of people of the Jewish faith, let us call a trade embargo against Russia. That would hurt. It would also hurt a lot of Australian exporters. It would hurt a lot of Australian people because we would have to accept a lower standard of living. But maybe that is the kind of action that other friendly nations might follow and there might be a snowballing action. 
I would like to refer to the statement on Iran and the danger of cutting off oil supplies which appears at page 14 of the Minister's statement and reads: 
The cessation of oil exports from Iran, previously the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia, has brought into focus again- as if the 1973 oil crisis was not sufficient- the world's heavy dependence on imported oil, most of which originates from the Middle East region. It has also reminded the world that oil is not simply an economic and resource problem but also a political one and that the politics of the region are very unstable. 
I agree 100 per cent with that. But, in the light of that statement, I ask the Senate: Does the Government not know that an Islamic renaissance is sweeping the world at the moment, that the recent moves in Iran are only the tip of the iceberg? Does the Government not realise that supplies of this precious resource to which the Minister referred are capable of either being cut off or severely diminished within a very short time? Then I ask: What are we doing about the energy crisis? I think that issue is closely allied to a debate on Iran. We talk about the shortage of petrol and claim that our self-sufficiency is going. We talk about the need for oil to preserve our economy. Yet what do we see being done? 
I might surprise the Senate with the answer to a little puzzle. Can the Senate tell me what is the cheapest fluid, other than water, that is available in Australia? I can give honourable senators the answer. To my knowledge, it is petrol. Petrol is cheaper than orange juice. It is cheaper than beer. It is cheaper than any sort of spirit. How crazy it is. We talk about the total dependence of our economy on oil or petroleum and the Minister has said that supplies of it might be severely diminished in the near future. Yet this resource is the cheapest liquid, other than water, that can be bought in Australia. What grieves me is the fact that no real attempt to create an energy policy seems to be made by the Federal Government. 
I do not blame the Federal Government entirely on this. I have been a Minister. At one time or another I have held, I think, about 10 different portfolios and I have chaired those curious meetings which are called between Federal and State Ministers on various subjects. I have convened such meetings on national development, forestry, customs and whatever. One of the things that is most disheartening at those conferences is the pathetic insistence of State Ministers and State public servants on sovereignty of the States, on States' rights. I say categorically to the Senate that in my view we will never have an energy policy for Australia unless we go to the people and obtain a transfer of powers on energy to the Federal Government. While sitting as the Federal Minister convening a meeting of State Ministers I have been disgusted- I use that strong word on purpose- after presenting an unanswerable case on the question of why the States should do something on oil, forestry and off-shore rights, to see the reaction of the State Ministers. 
None of us can forget that that pathetic interest- that obsession- with State rights was one of the main elements that defeated, crucified, destroyed one of the greatest parliamentarians this Parliament has known in the past 20 years, namely, John Gorton. He had a vision to have the Federal Government involved in those sorts of issues. It was the sniping of State Ministers and of State branches of the Liberal Party and National Country Party of Australia that destroyed him. 
-They helped. But the real sting was in the States rights issue. I have sat at those conferences at which an unanswerable case for the transfer of powers was put forward. But the State Labor and Liberal Ministers would jack up, they would caucus; and they would say: No, let us get together'. They would get together and say: 'We must not let this power go to the Commonwealth because it is an intrusion of States rights'. It did not matter a damn what was good for the people or for the country as long as the precious States rights were not infringed. The holding of a referendum is one way over that. 
The Australian Democrats regard the lack of energy policy in this country as one of the most serious problems facing us. No matter what goodwill the present Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  or the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  may have- and I believe they have the goodwill to get an energy policy- I can tell them they will never get it and they ought to know they will never get it unless the people give us this power at a referendum. 
How can we use alternatives to petroleum? We know the possibilities of obtaining power alcohol from sugar cane, sugar beet and cassava. We know what California has recently done in the solar energy field. It is almost trendy to mention solar energy today. When one raises this subject one is told it is 'old hat'. California has just instituted an authority which by 1980 will use solar energy to provide something like one-quarter of the electricity needs of southern California and will create 376,000 jobs a year. Yet the Minister for Education talks about an energy crisis and a shortage of oil. I would like the Minister for Science and the Environment or any other Minister to tell me what real steps are we taking to solve the future energy problems of Australia. The United States gives tax credits of up to 55 per cent of the total cost of solar devices as an encouragement to conserve energy resources by using energy from the sun. What do we do in Australia? We put a sales tax of up to 12V6 per cent on solar devices. Yet, the Minister for Science and the Environment and the Minister for National Development say: 'We believe in solar energy'. Let them justify to me, please, if they want those things and if they are sincere, why we have that tax of up to 12Vi per cent which has to be paid by anybody who wants to install an electricity saving or a solar device in his home. 
Finally, I mention China. I thought that  Senator Kilgariff  made an excellent speech on China. The honourable senator has been to China and he confirmed the views that I have had expressed to me by travellers to that country.  Mr John  Siddons, a most distinguished Australian and the National  President  of my party, recently visited China with a group of people. He was fortunate in having as his travelling companion  Mr Ross  Tyrell, another most distinguished Australian who I think is regarded internationally as in the third top group of China experts in the world. John Siddons came back and said to me that there is an obsession among the Chinese from the top to the bottom that Russia will invade them. He did not say, nor do any experts say, that there is any evidence that Russia will invade China. But that is not the point. The point is that every Chinese person sincerely believes that Russia will attack China and will attack from that country's soft underbelly. History has shown that the invasion of China from the north, the north-west and the west is difficult because of the problems presented by Mongolia and the Himalayas and with respect to logistical support. But invasion is a possibility with the help of friendly allies through China's underbelly- that is, up through Indo-China. 
I believe that Russia catastrophically miscalculated the Chinese reaction when it supported Vietnam's actions in Kampuchea. It is a miscalculation which could have been quite catastrophic. Whether it is true or not, there is an old saying of a self-fulfilling prophecy. If the Chinese have an obsession about the Russian threat, they are bound to react possibly at the wrong times. Let us not forget another philosophy that has been in China for many years. My friend and colleague,  Senator Mason,  in his days as an author had a best seller entitled  The View From Peking.  One sentence from that book which I remember was that the Chinese believe they would be great survivors in a world war'. One reads in Chinese literature and hears from Chinese diplomats- and this is in line with the Maoist theory- that even in the event of a nuclear war China would kill 200 million of the 230 million Russians and Russia would kill 200 million Chinese but China would still have 800 million people left. This is a terrifying concept- a frightening philosophy. Even though we may discard this concept in terms of logic, it is there and that is where the danger lies. 
I suggest that we should not play to Russia's paranoid fears- and that nation has the same fears of paranoia as does China. If we want to have good relations with China, by all means let us go out to have them. But let us not chase good relations with China at the expense of unnecessarily offending the other great paranoid power in the world, namely, the Soviets. I remind the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs that if in an attempt to ingratiate themselves with China they offend or play to the paranoia or the fear that is in the Russian mind they will do a great disservice to this country. 
I wish to incorporate in my speech the remarks about peace made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He said: 
The Government is committed to work for peace and the reduction of tension. That commitment is global. The Government will do what it can to support all efforts to promote peace and stability. 
I inject a few words in respect of Timor. One could read the statement both ways. Indonesia was an aggressor in Timor.  Mr Peacock's  stance when we were in Opposition was impeccablewe would not recognise the aggression; we would not rest until all foreign Indonesian troops were out of Timor and until a plebiscite conducted by the United Nations was held and the International Red Cross was freely admitted by the Indonesians. Up until last year, the Foreign Minister's stance had been impeccable. 
But overnight Cabinet changed his mind and he said: 'We recognise the Indonesian take-over of Timor'. That sort of cowardly aquiescence of an aggressor could be read to mean that the Government will do what it can to support all efforts to promote peace and stability. One could excuse that monstrous act on the grounds that it will promote peace and stability in the area. The Minister in his speech continued: 
We are committed not only for moral and ideological reasons, but because it is in Australia's vital interest that we should live in peaceful and stable surroundings. 
I ask: At what cost? The Minister went on to say: 
But that must not be an excuse for inertia and resignation. 
He concludes: 
If we do not, we can hardly complain if other, more distant countries, fail to do so. 
I add this: If we do not stand up against aggressors in our own immediate region, if we simply and weakly acquiesce to other acts of Indonesian aggression and acquisition, how stupid we would look, how puerile we would look, in five years, 10 years or 20 years time if Indonesia decided to turn its predatory side to Papua New Guinea and we appealed to the United Nations to assist us in that territory. That request would be pathetic and it would be laughed out- and rightly laughed out- of the United Nations. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to  8  p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Will the forthcoming airport car rental franchise provide for more than two operators; if not, what effect will an extension of the two-airline policy to car rentals have on the services provided to the travelling public. 
Will the Government ensure that the interests of the public are safeguarded by adequate competition. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security a question concerning the age pension. It is in the context of the significant structural unemployment that is now in our society, particularly that which was referred to by the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in a speech in the House of Representatives some weeks ago where he gave a rather gloomy forecast of the employment situation, particularly in relation to automation and computerisation, with a suggestion that even if Australia did reach a situation of economic buoyancy there would still be a group of people in the community who would be unemployed. In the light of this, will the Government consider lowering by one year the age at which aged persons are eligible for the pension? If done voluntarily, would this not create immediate employment opportunities for the young unemployed and cost the Government very little as the cost of the age pension is much the same as the cost of unemployment relief payments? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Did the  Australian,  21 February 1979, contain a report regarding an alarmingly high amount of arsenic in prawns being sold throughout Australia. 
Were some corrective actions taken to upgrade the standard of food testing in Australia by strongly encouraging the registration of food testing laboratories with the National Association of Testing Authorities, following investigations of food poisoning that occurred some eighteen months ago when babies were fed baby formula contaminated with Salmonella. 
What progress has been made in the area of food testing registration. 
Will such progress minimise the occurrence of these distressing outbreaks. 
I present the following pet ition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It concerns the report on Aboriginal health presented to the 
House of Representatives yesterday by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. Does the report recommend, among other measures, involvement of Aborigines in decisions affecting their health, involvement in the delivery of their own health care and recognition of the special health needs of Aborigines? Does the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service meet these criteria? If so, will the Minister reconsider the provision of increased funds to this service in Victoria to enable it to expand its services rather than curtail them as is now the case? What other measures will the Minister take to improve the health of Aborigines in view of the alarming conclusions of the report to which I have referred? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
What action will be taken in the current more favourable climate to persuade the Australian Meat Industry Employees' Union that export of live sheep is in the best interests of the industry in the long term. 
The Australian Democrats give general support to all of these Bills. In particular we would totally support the need for a responsible and efficient Australian security organisation. But we have serious doubts such as those expressed by  Senator Button  and the Australian Labor Party, and we are in sympathy with most of the Opposition amendments. We favour a responsible organisation. I think the situation was clearly expressed by Professor Colin Howard writing for the Melbourne  Age  when he said: 
If unpleasant people would stop doing unpleasant things in Australia, we should not need security intelligence organisations or, for that matter, the police. But these activities do go on and the country would be foolish not to protect itself against them. 
On the other hand, we do not want a Russiantype petty surveillance as described by Solzhenitsyn in the  Gulag Archipelago. 
There are certain features of this legislation which disturb us greatly. For example, it is inappropriate that such large sums of public money should be spent on 'investigations' such as those castigated by  Mr Justice  White in South Australia which merely lead to files on people pursuing legitimate public interest causes. The fact that these people may dissent from prevailing government views does not necessarily make them subversive. Their rights to test and inquire into government thinking is a vital part of our democratic process. One is led to some concern on these matters by the report of  Mr Justice  Hope, who gave specific examples of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in fact committing indiscretions and in fact being incompetent. In fact in a quite devastating comment he said:  . . intelligence assessment is no simple or routine activity but a highly skilled and subtle task. I must report that I saw little evidence in ASIO that the qualities of mind and expertise needed were recognised, or available in any large measure. 
That is certainly a strong condemnation. Why is this so? Has poor directorship, ministerial or otherwise, led to this malaise? If so, it could lead to an abuse of powers. It is for that reason, if for no other, that we are concerned at the extraordinary powers given to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Director-General and the Minister under this legislation. It is inappropriate, we believe, for politicians and lawyers to try to assess the effects of measures such as this on little people. I was very impressed with the speech by  Senator Puplick  on this matter, although I am sure he will not be voting against the Government on those things with which he disagreed. As I understand it, he is trained in the law. What concerns me is lawyers, or damned lawyers, saying in this place or the other place that a particular law contains protections against abuses of power. Thai is a lot of rubbish. The worst service that anybody can do to this Parliament is to bring legalistic interpretations to it. Of course, if the police abuse their powers or if ASIO abuses its powers,  Senator Puplick, Senator Durack  or any other lawyer or politician, because of their training and positions, can object straight to the Chief Commissioner or to the Director-General. 
My concern is that this Bill gives so many powers to ASIO agents that little people who are affected by it have no such redress. They are terrified by authority. They are terrified of retribution or reprisals if they make a complaint. Quite recently three young people aged about 1 7 or 18 living in a house in Melbourne said that they were raided by the Victorian police at 4 a.m. one Saturday. When the police officers were asked to produce a warrant they produced a piece of paper, which was probably a warrant, but they gave the young people no opportunity to look at it. It was found that the warrant was several months old. In fact the police raided the house looking for a person who was wanted on criminal charges but who had left those premises three months previously. When the police went in the young people complained and the police officers said, 'Do not give us a hard time; we have had a hard night too'. They were incredibly rough with furniture and with the young people. I said to the young people, 'Did you not complain?' They looked at me with some incredulity as if I were not in touch with reality. They said: Why complain? How would we know that we would not have reprisals levelled against us?' These are the sorts of things in this Bill which worry us. If we as politicians or lawyers have our civil liberties infringed, we can fight against that, but the little people, with great respect, cannot. They do not have that facility. 
We think that too great a responsibility to protect individual freedoms is imposed by the Bill as it stands. We ask: Why is this Bill being rushed through with the haste with which it is being rushed? The Freedom of Information Bill, a vital Bill, is quite properly being given full consideration, largely due to the work of  Senator Missen  and others. I do not care if the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  says, 'Look, the Hope report came out many months ago; there has been a long time for public discussion'. That is true, but the Hope report contains generalisations on recommendations. We are not debating the Hope report tonight. We are debating a piece of paper which, if passed by the two Houses, will become law and operative for all citizens. This is the finite stage; this is the definitive stage. This legislation allegedly will put  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations into words which will be binding on all citizens of the country. Therefore, we say that it has been hastily constructed for reasons I will try to give in the short time remaining. The same applies, with great respect, to the Labor amendments. That is no criticism of the Labor Party. 
What chance does the Opposition have in the short time allotted to it other than to draw up amendments (a) to (k)- nearly a dozen amendments- most of which I agree with? One of them is patently absurd. Amendment (j ) states that no person should be denied notification of the existence of an adverse security assessment made about that person. Generally speaking, I would agree with that but if an adverse security assessment is made about a person reasonably suspected to be a KGB agent do we have to say to him, 'There is an adverse report about you; we are not quite sure about it yet, but have a look at it'? I do not blame the Labor Party. All I am saying is that I am blaming the Government for trying to rush this thing through. We as parliamentarians and as senators ought to be hearing from civil liberties groups, from the Law Institute and from the Bar Council about the possible infringements of civil liberties that are contained in this legislation. 
I give just a couple of examples of the reasons that we are concerned about in this legislation. In clause 5(1) domestic subversion is defined in paragraph (c) as:  . . activities directed to promoting violence or hostility between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
That could mean anything. That could be levelled against the Committee for Defence of Government Schools- DOGS. Paragraph (b) of that sub-clause could be directed against me because I have dared to try to challenge the decision of the Government by marching in the streets to oppose the mining and milling of uranium. A literal interpretation of that definition of domestic subversion could well involve members of Parliament. Another provision that deeply concerns us is that connected with search warrants and listening devices. Clause 24(1) states, in part: 
Where, upon receipt by the Minister of a request by the Director-General for the issue of a warrant under this section, the Minister is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that there are in any premises any records without access . . . the Minister may, by warrant under his hand . . . 
What are reasonable grounds? It may be that a lawyer understands what they are. But have they been tested? Are they in the Bill? They are not. I agree that in some circumstances listening devices should be attached to certain people's telephones and recordings should be made. But I would be happier to know the circumstances under which that can be done so that individual rights are not unduly infringed. 
-I agree with that. But are people's rights protected? I suggest that in terms of the Bill they are not protected. It is for those reasons that we would support any move to have this Bill delayed so that it can be given more mature consideration and so that we can listen to more debate on it. As a final example I cite clause 25(3) which states, in part: 
Where, upon receipt by the Minister of a request by the Director-General to the issue of a warrant under this section - 
That is a search warrant- authorising the use of a listening device in relation to a particular person, the Minister is satisfied that: 
that person is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected by the Director-General of being engaged in, or of being likely to being engaged in, activities prejudicial to security; 
So it goes on. Without trying to be absurd, my understanding is that if the Minister is persuaded by the Director-General to authorise the use of a listening device, one could be put in the confessional if a devotee of the Catholic faith, for example, is going to confess some act against the security of the country. Perhaps that might be carrying the example to absurdity, but lawyer friends with whom I have discussed this matter say that under this legislation that situation is not impossible. I would like to have spoken longer but as usual the ways of the Senate are mysterious. When one is told that he is to speak at 8.30 he can reasonably be certain that it will be about 10.21. Therefore, the Australian Democrats support the purpose of the Bill but have the same concern as the Australian Labor Party about many provisions in it. We criticise very strongly the undue haste with which the Government has brought in this legislation as distinct from a consideration of the Hope report. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) Will the Minister undertake to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918, and consult with his colleagues on necessary amendments to other Acts, so as to ensure that standards of honesty and accuracy, applicable to other forms of advertising, are applied to political advertising and enforced with the same penalties. 
Will the Minister consult with his colleagues in the State Governments to ensure application of the same standards to political advertising in the State Election campaigns. 
The Australian Democrats support the Opposition amendment but I did not think  Senator Gietzelt  went far enough. In fact I do not think the Opposition goes far enough.  Senator Gietzelt  was talking about the activities of the far Left, the extremists. I agree that such people deserve some protection. As I heard him speaking I was reminded of the courageous activities of his colleague,  Senator Georges,  in Queensland. Clause 5 ( 1 ) (a) would embrace the activities of  Senator Georges  in organising protests against that hideous legislation of  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen. The word overthrowing' is included in this clause. I believe that every decent minded member of the Senate would be hoping for the overthrow of - 
-The overthrow of Joh Bjelke-Petersen.  Senator Cavanagh  has anticipated me. He mentioned the words 'by force or violence '. That bothers me because that part of the clause has not been debated as much as I would like. Force and violence have been used in Queensland but our friend  Senator Georges  did not pre-empt it. 
That is the very point I am making.  Senator Georges  did not create the force and violence; the police force did it. The Australian Democrats will support the Opposition amendment but we wonder whether it goes far enough because this sort of clause, perhaps unwittingly, embraces the kind of activity which  Senator Georges  and his colleagues are undertaking in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission made any representations to the Government regarding the retention of the position of staff-elected Commissioner; if so, how has the Government responded. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, relates to a recommendation in the report of the Williams Committee on Education and Training. The Minister would know that the report recommends the establishment of a committee to examine the feasibility of re-introducing fees for tertiary students. I ask the Minister: Firstly, can he give a categorical assurance that such a committee will not be set up and that tertiary fees will not be re-introduced so that students and parents can plan for the future without fear of financial penalty? Secondly, does the Minister propose to set up a committee for this purpose? Thirdly, what is the Minister's own attitude to the reintroduction of tertiary fees? Finally, if the Minister cannot be as definitive as he would wish to be at this time, and I can appreciate why he might not be because there are conflicting reports on this matter- for example, the Anderson survey and the Blandy survey- can he give the Senate an idea of when he might be able to make a definitive statement to the Senate on this question? 
Subsequent upon the remarks of  Senator Button,  I understand that the Opposition is not going to seek a division on each amendment it will move to clauses of this Bill because it feels, quite sensibly, that the time could be better devoted to debate. The Australian Democrats concur with that view and with the exception of paragraph (j) of  Senator Button's  amendment to the second reading stage of the Bill, the Australian Democrats would largely concur with the views of the Opposition and will be voting with the Opposition on most of the amendments it puts. But like the Opposition, we will not be pushing the Senate to a division to save time that could be better devoted to debate. 
The Committee is debating the definition of subversion. Once in the mind of the Director-General some person is capable of undertaking subversive activities then he falls into a category of having certain things done to him or her. Clause 5(1 )(b) refers to a person who is engaged in 'activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions'. What the Opposition is trying to do is to insert by way of an amendment the word ' unlawful' in front of the word 'activities'. I really did not think that I, as a member of Parliament, would hear an Attorney-General say that he would reject the use of the word 'unlawful'. What he is saying in fact is that even lawful activities by a citizen of this Commonwealth could well and should well bring him or her under the surveillance of the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
'Improper' is certainly a relative word. I thank  Senator Missen  for his interjection.  Senator Missen  has hit on my worry. Improper' and 'immoral' are relative terms. 
You said 'improper'. 
I am extending it. Let us keep to your word 'improper'. 
Right! Improper conduct is totally a relative concept. It is not absolute. Lawful or unlawful is one of the few things that we have in life that are absolute because it is part of a statute. 
Does the honourable senator dispute that? 
The honourable senator, who is also a lawyer, tries to divert me. At least we have a starting point if something is lawful or unlawful. But if he wants to rely on 'proper' or improper' that would depend on all sorts of considerations such as religion, morality, age and so on. All that we on this side of the chamber want to do is to lay down some sort of criteria because the Director-General has incredibly wide powers under this legislation, and we would agree necessarily so. But we want to restrict the definition of subversion. We support the Opposition on this matter. 
While I am on my feet I make one last point. I again make a plea to the Attorney-General, as I did in my speech on the second reading debate. I understand that 3 1 amendments to this Bill are proposed by the Opposition. It has taken us over two hours to debate two-thirds of one of those amendments. Surely this is a classic case of a Bill which should be referred to a committee of this Senate which, on past performances, could do a magnificent job in ironing out these sorts of things. It has taken this Committee2½ hours to debate a couple of points. I again plead with the Government to withdraw this legislation and refer it to a committee so that at least there will be a consensus of the various political parties in this place. That would avoid wasting time by debating this Bill clause by clause. 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change area violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Royal Australian Institute of Architects expressed concern about certain aspects of the conditions of eligibility for the Australian Archives National Headquarters Competition. 
Does the eligibility of the Department of Housing and Construction provide unfair competition, in view of its unlimited resources. 
Does it also produce anomalies, in that architects in Government departments and authorities other than the Department of Housing and Construction remain ineligible. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to amend the Social Services Act 1947, the Repatriation Act 1920 and the Seamen 's War Pensions, and Allowances Act 1 940 in relation to indexation of pensions, and for related purposes. 
I associate my Party with the sympathy extended to the family of Frank Stewart who died tragically at the young age of 56 years. Like  Senator Carrick  and other honourable senators who have spoken, I pay tribute to him for being a deeply religious man, a very happily married man and a loving and successful father. I speak particularly today as a personal friend of Frank Stewart. That friendship extended over 17 years. For some reason, close personal friendships among politicians are relatively rare. They are even rarer between politicians of different parties. Frank Stewart and I had an incredibly close relationship, although on most social issues we disagreed pretty vigorously. He was  deputy  leader of a delegation which I had the honour of leading to South East Asia in 1 967. As a member of that delegation, he behaved as one would expect Frank Stewart to behave- with total loyalty and dignity and with a charm and sense of humour that he introduced at the right time and at the right place. 
I have referred to the tragic death of one so young. Like  Senator Webster,  I recall playing tennis with Frank Stewart. There was a time when he and I played tennis at lunch time three days a week while the Parliament was in session. Unhappily, he let that lapse in latter years. It is ironical- I think that he would want me to say this today- that during the many times we were away together or had a drink or a cup of tea together, we both agreed very vigorously on one point: The insane way in which men and women are treated in this Parliament in regard to the hours of sitting. They are imprisoned virtually from 9 a.m. to 1 1 p.m. on the three days that Parliament meets. He said often, and I agreed with him: 'Why cannot we get some sense into this business and sit right through to 7 p.m. or 7.30 p.m. on sitting days to allow us to lead some sort of civilised life while we are in Canberra?' 
I also pay tribute to his work as Minister for Tourism and Recreation. As I once held that portfolio, I know the total respect in which Frank Stewart was held by the  Chairman  of the Australian Tourist Commission,  Mr Alan  Greenway, with whom Frank Stewart developed a very close personal friendship. I would like to pay a tribute to Frank Stewart's integrity on a rather contentious issue. When he was Minister for Tourism and Recreation he showed that he was a man of the highest integrity. It is my belief that after a meeting of the Executive Council at which Frank Stewart was present, the late Rex Connor asked  Mr Whitlam  whether he could continue his overseas search for $2 billion. This was after that meeting had cancelled  Mr Connor's  authority to do this. In my view,  Mr Stewart  believed that he heard  Mr Whitlam  say that if any overseas money was offered he would reconvene the Executive Council and obtain fresh authority. I make it perfectly clear that I am not saying  Mr Whitlam  said that but J know that  Mr Stewart  believed he said it.  Mr Whitlam  denied this in the House of Representatives and Frank Stewart believed- mistakenly or correctly I am not stating- that his Prime Minister had misled the Parliament. 
Frank Stewart was one of the most loyal party people ever to come into the Parliament. He had a personal affection for  Mr Gough  Whitlam but, notwithstanding that, he decided to put everything on the line and he informed the GovernorGeneral that he believed that his Prime Minister was misleading the Parliament. I think it would have taken a lot of guts to do that, but Frank Stewart did it. He made himself unpopular with his colleagues, but I think he grew in esteem and everybody respected his integrity in taking the action he took. We of the Australian Democrats extend our sympathy to his wife and children. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) Does an agreement exist with the Syrian Government for Qantas to overfly Syrian Territory and to land in Damascus; if so: 
when was such an agreement signed 
where was such an agreement signed 
who were the signatories for Australia/Qantas, and 
were the Australian signatories members of the Minister's own Department; if not, what positions did they hold. 
Before the agreement was either signed or initialled, from whom was authority obtained to agree to the terms of the agreement. 
Was any attempt made, at the time the agreement was authorised, to acquaint the person whose authority was required, or was that person acquainted, with the Syrian regulations in relation to visas and, in particular, that any person of the Jewish faith of any nationality was not permitted through Syrian air space on any flight, or  to be  in a plane which landed in Syria. 
If the person who authorised either the signing or initialling of the agreement was aware of the matters set out in the previous paragraph, did he refer that matter to the Minister: if not, why did he agree to, or permit, that agreement to be initialled or signed. 
If the person who authorised either the signing or initialling of the agreement was not aware of the matters referred to in paragraph (3), why did he not make his own inquiries us to the terms and conditions in which entry was permitted. 
Was the Minister informed of the agreement with the Syrian Government; if so, when; if not, what are the criteria for categorising those Qantas agreements which require Ministerial approval, authorisation or ratification, and those agreements involving Qantas which need no such approval, authorisation or ratification. 
When did Qantas flights over Syria commence. 
When did the first Qantas flight land at Damascus en route to Sydney or Melbourne from London. 
When did the first Qantas flight land at Damascus en route from Sydney or Melbourne to London. 
Did Qantas direct its reservation clerks to discourage Jews from travelling on flights over Syria; if so: 
what was the nature of such discouragement; and 
how did the Qantas reservation clerks ascertain, in the first instance, whether a proposed passenger was Jewish or otherwise. 
Arc there agreements between Qantas and any other nation which prohibit entry to Australian citizens on the grounds of race or creed. 
Will the Minister table the agreement between Qantas and the Syrian Government, and all related correspondence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) ls the Commonwealth Police Officers' Association concerned about the effect of the proposed Australian Federal Police Force on the career prospects of its members. 
Will those members of the existing Commonwealth Police Force who arc allocated to the proposed Protective Service Component suffer disadvantages in pay. promotion, conditions and status, as compared with other members. 
Will these disadvantages amount to a breach of the conditions and understandings upon which these officers joined the Commonwealth Police Force; if so, will the Minister take steps to compensate the officers thus disadvantaged: if not, and if the officers' concern is without foundation, will the Minister clarify the situation. 
I move: 
That so much or the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent my making a statement concerning the indexation of pensions. 
-I refer to Standing Order 448 which states: 
That in cases of urgent necessity, any Standing or Sessional Order or Orders of the Senate may be suspended on motion . . . 
In order to be relevant to the wording of that Standing Order I indicate that this is a matter of some urgency and that therefore the Standing Orders ought to be suspended so that it can be debated. Before getting on to the matter of urgency may I explain my interjection, for which I apologise to you,  Mr President.  It was disorderly. I was clearly under the impression from the Government Whip when I saw him in the chamber before dinner that I would be permitted to move the first reading of my Bill, that I would then be able to ask for leave to move the second reading which would be - 
I present the following petition from 246 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Education a question concerning the 1 978 report of the Australian Education Council working party which estimated that the number of fully trained teachers in Australia in that year who were either unemployed or working in positions other than teaching was between 9,750 and 14,700. If the training of each teacher costs approximately $20,000, does this mean that there has been a waste of taxpayers' funds amounting to between $ 1 95m and $3 billion? In spite of this surplus, are there not still serious shortages in some States in many special teaching areas such as migrant English, remedial teaching and in disadvantaged schools? Will the Minister give me an undertaking that he will convene an urgent conference of State Education Ministers and their senior officers to find constructive ways of employing these surplus teachers and of taking steps so as not to compound the surplus in future years? 
I think there is a high degree of incongruity in a junior Government senator, who owes his place in this Senate to the votes of pensioners, making a statement such as the one he has just made when last night, on four occasions, he supported motions to prevent this chamber from discussing the broken promise of his Government to index pensions. I think his behaviour is ironic and borders on hypocrisy. I have nothing to add in reply to what  Senator Teague  has just said. So that the record of these proceedings will be complete, I simply ask readers  of Hansard to  refer to my personal explanation made earlier this morning. On that I rest my case. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented. 
Leave granted. 
Last night,  Senator Peter  Baume paid me the courtesy of saying that he was going to refer on the adjournment debate to the events of the previous evening. I thank him for that courtesy. Unfortunately- and I apologise to the Senate for this- I was not able to attend the adjournment debate. I was engaged until a late hour in discussing the events of the evening with the media. However, I have read the debate entirely and find myself misrepresented by six honourable senators all of whom I am sure, except one, did so unwittingly. I have read  Senator Peter  Baume 's speech on the adjournment carefully and say that there is not one word in it with which I would disagree. 
During the debate, when the heat was on, as is recorded at page 1580 of  Hansard,  when I had moved the suspension of Standing Orders, I tried to put the record straight and said this to you,  Mr President: 
Before getting on to the matter of urgency may I explain my interjection, for which I apologise to you,  Mr President,  lt was disorderly. I was clearly under the impression from the Government Whip when 1 saw him in the chamber before dinner that I would be permitted to move the first reading of my Bill, that I would then be able to ask for leave to move the second reading which would be-- 
Then I was interrupted. I was about to explain what the situation was.  Senator Peter  Baume sought leave. It was not granted. I sought leave, and the Senate knows the subsequent facts. Where I have been misrepresented, unwittingly, is as follows: First,  Senator Cavanagh,  as recorded at page 1603 of  Hansard,  said: 
Without knowing the whole context of the discussion 1 accept that  Senator Baume  says that  Senator Chipp  should not have held that view. 
The view that I was supposed to have held was that there was an agreement between  Senator Peter  Baume and me that the Government would allow me to proceed with the second reading forthwith. I accept that there was never any such agreement, and I have never claimed that there was. 

 - Senator Cavanagh misrepresents me again. At page 1 605 of  Hansard,  we find that  Senator Georges  said: 
We were told one thing by  Senator Chipp  which obviously was not quite correct. 

 Senator Grimes, at page 1 605 of  Hansard,  said: 

 Senator Baume said; I accept that he said it quite reasonably; that he could not give a guarantee. 
Also on page 1605,  Senator Teague  made an unworthy interjection: 
You were misled by the minority party. 
The honourable senator compounds the error, as he is prone to do. At page 1606,  Senator Walters  is shown to have said: 
I am just pointing out to  Senator Grimes  that he might not have heard  Senator Chipp  towards the end of his tirade agree that there had been no agreement between him and the Whip. 
As the record shows, I never said any such thing. 
Let me come now to what I believe to be the breach of the agreement to which I have referred. At the dinner adjournment I told  Senator Baume  that, after the first reading, 1 would seek leave to move the second reading forthwith. He said that the Government would not agree to that. I then informed him that I would move for the suspension of the Standing Orders so that I could move the second reading forthwith. I said that at the beginning of that speech I would indicate that I would enter into no debate on pensions, and said that I would withdraw immediately my motion to suspend Standing Orders if the Government could give me an undertaking that a vote on the Bill would be taken before the Senate rose for the winter recess. I gave as my reason that that would take the Victorian election politicking out of the debate on my Bill. He said that he would put that proposition to  Senator Carrick  but believed that the answer would be in the negative. I then said that I would invite  Senator Carrick  to respond by way of interjection in the course of my speech on the suspension of Standing Orders. 
It is my firm understanding that  Senator Baume  then said to me: 'All right, but I think the answer will be no'. From that statement I generally concluded that at that stage I would at least be permitted to speak to the motion. I heard nothing further from  Senator Baume  from that time until  Senator Carrick  rose immediately after the first reading had been moved and moved that the second reading be made an order of the day for a future day of sitting and that the question be now put. I believed that a clear undertaking that I could speak had been broken. I still hold that view very firmly. If any misunderstanding occurred between  Senator Baume  and me, I for my part apologise. But it is my clear view that an undertaking was given and that the undertaking was broken. 
I associate my party with the motion of condolence at the passing of Charles Adermann but, more particularly, I rise as someone who knew  Sir Charles  personally. I served with him in the Ministry and I had unbounded admiration for his integrity. He was a very active member- in fact a much more active member than I- in the church in which I was raised as a child. I believe that he did quite a bit of lay preaching in that church, the Church of Christ. He was a man who one could say was a Christian, not only by the stamp of the faith he wore but also by his actions. During the time I knew him I never heard him say anything nasty about anybody, and despite his senior position in the Cabinet he was always ready and humble to help anybody who might need help. One could hardly say that one regretted the passing of a man whose life was so full. I think  Senator Carrick  said that  Sir Charles  was born in 1896. I know that he lived a very full and happy life. The Australian Democrats, like the other parties, would like to extend our condolences to  Sir Charles's  family. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of a dispute amongst primary teachers in Victoria? I refer to the deplorable ban by the Victorian Teachers Union on its primary teacher members not to supervise student teachers in the classroom because the allowances paid to student teachers are not as high as those paid to secondary teachers. Does this not deprive those student teachers of vital experience in the classroom? Has the dispute been to the Victorian Teachers Tribunal which, by direction of a Liberal Minister, has not heard the dispute because it was told it does not have the authority to do so? Was the dispute then referred to a federal authority, the Academic Salaries Tribunal which, also by direction of a Liberal Minister, was told that it did not have the authority to hear the dispute? Is it true also that this dispute has now been going on for almost two years during which time student teachers have had virtually no experience in the classroom, to the ultimate detriment of themselves and children? I ask whether the Minister will confer urgently with his Liberal colleague in Victoria to see whether this dispute can be resolved. 
The Senate is debating a motion to take note of a paper which was the basis of a statement made in the other place by the honourable Ian Macphee, Minister for Productivity. The paper involves the launching of a new concept which is a concept of getting together. I think this is a major breakthrough, a philosophy that the Australian Democrats have been advocating since our formation. It might be said that it is a relatively insignificant statement and not the most important paper that has been presented to this Parliament. However, I feel impelled to give an unqualified compliment to the Minister,  Mr Ian  Macphee, for a magnificent breakthrough. 
Another feature of this paper is that there are three human beings involved in the breakthrough of having a look at worker participation. It is interesting to note that the three men are men of goodwill. My unbounded admiration of Bob Hawke is no secret. I have always had a high admiration of the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Ian  Macphee, and although I concede the toughness and sometimes ruthlessness of  Mr Polites,  I acknowledge him to be an efficient person and a person who is susceptible to argument and logic. The classic lesson we can learn from this paper is that worker participation- not the kind of worker participation that terrified the unions when such a suggestion was put under another guise in previous years, but genuine worker participation, as  Senator Button  quite aptly described it- can create an environment for future discussion, for future consultation and for future consensus. Of the many books that I have read on futurism in Australia one book that impressed me more than any other, I think, was the book by Professor R. C. Birch of Sydney University. He wrote about confronting the future and putting down the problems that confront us in the future. He gave several illusions that we have accepted since the Industrial Revolution. One of these was that we could force human beings into a situation where they would do mind-boggling, souldestructive work five days a week with no social cost. I think this report recognises that. These three men of good-will at least have opened the door for discussion on this question. 
Worker participation has had a sorry history in Australia. If one wanted to be objective one could blame the trade union leaders for rejecting it and for being suspicious of it. But after one has done that, to be fair, one has then got to say that they were tricked so many times by management, by proprietorship, by the capitalists. One could blame the employers for being so recalcitrant in even accepting it and thinking that this was just another way the unions were trying to screw them. The sad history of the past 20, 30 or 40 years is that worker participation has been something that people were inclined to say out of the sides of their mouths because it was a dirty word. I do not want to give this paper more credit than it deserves. All I will say is that it does create an environment, to use  Senator Button's  words. 
What the paper does do is open up a vision that if these three men of different political persuasions can get together and at least agree on a formula, what sort of exciting possibilities does it open up in the future.  Senator Button  quite properly said that the greatest cause of loss of productivity in Australia is not strikes but industrial accidents. He was not making a political point. It is a fact found by a series of objective committees. Why cannot we find men of goodwill to sit down across the table, not in the glare of publicity where people grandstand but in secretrepresentatives of the Government, of the trade unions and of the employers- to try to resolve these problems by compromise and consensus? 
The biggest social problem facing Australia at the moment in my view is automation and computerisation, and I am ashamed to say that. It should not be a problem. Automationcomputerisation should be something which we all look forward to as a time for greater leisure, of greater spare time to enjoy those things that stimulate us mentally, spiritually, intellectually, physically or whatever. Unhappily it has become a monster- something that scares us because we know it is going to cost jobs. I am of a persuasion that that problem too can be solved by people of goodwill. The only possible answer long term is a shorter working week. But a shorter working week cannot be achieved by just reducing hours and having exactly the same levels of pay. Further, the worker cannot be expected to bear the whole brunt of this. Why cannot a tripartite group of people who have got together on this - the three of them, the trade unions, the employers and the Government- sit together and come to some compromise in solving that problem? In my view unless it is solved before it hits us, it will result in one million Australians being unemployed by the year 1982. I have been repeating this prediction now for 12 months. That situation would create a society which would not be a stable society but a society of the haves and the have nots. 
Worker participation does work. In my former electorate, when I was a member of the lower House, there was a company called Philips Industries Ltd which manufactures, as we know, television sets, records and whatever. That company employed 1,500 people. The company's production was down and its profits were down. Absenteeism was rising and the number of accidents was rising. Finally the management of that company called a meeting, not of the trade union leaders but of all the workforce, and said: 'We are in trouble. Can we get together?' Out of that conference came worker participation- the cellular structure on the factory floor. The employees are now in charge of production on that factory floor. Foremen are now virtually absent from the factory floor. Wages have increased, productivity has increased and profitability has increased. Absenteeism has almost disappeared. The atmosphere on that work floor has improved to such an extent that I would have thought that it would have provided a classic example of the success of worker participation, of employee participation, without the employees being exploited as they had been in previous experiments of schemes disguised as worker participation. 
The national  president  of my party is the  chairman  of a company which was the forerunner in worker participation, Siddons Industries Ltd. Not only has that company introduced a cellular structure with a virtual absence of foremen or overseers but it has introduced a scheme of flextime and all sorts of things. I have spoken to most of the men in that company. They are better off and are happier with flextime. By agreement between management and labour, men are working a four day week. They sometimes check out at 2 o'clock in the afternoon. Management is happy, the proprietorship is happy and the trade unions are happy. This has been done by consensus, by getting around the table and compromising as was done by Ian Macphee, Bob Hawke and Ian Polites- three men of goodwill. I want to register in the Senate our approbation- it is almost excitement- that this social experiment, and that is what it is, has succeeded. I end as I began. Without any equivocation, I commend the Minister for Productivity and the Government on this action. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  proposed: 
That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day ibr the next day  of sitting 
I present the following petition from 1 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments appropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I have found myself in agreement with most of the Opposition amendments to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill but I totally support the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and the Government on this clause. I disagree with  Senator Evans, Senator Button, Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Tate.  I studied a little law in my education but not as much as the learned gentlemen who have spoken. Therefore, I find that I sometimes absorb points made in this debate a few minutes after everybody else. I say without patronage that the Attorney has made generous concessions since this Bill was first introduced into the Parliament in relation to giving information to the Leader of the Opposition. When the Bill was first introduced it provided for very little information to be given to him. The kind of information has been extended generously by the amendments moved by the Attorney. Is the Opposition saying- I will be pleased to hear an answer by way of interjection- that the Leader of the Opposition should be placed in a more advantageous position than a Minister of the Crown in not divulging information? 
-That is as I understand it. Every Executive Councillor and every Minister is obliged by oath not to disclose information on anything. Let us get the ASIO legislation out of our minds. Every Minister is obliged not to disclose anything that is marked secret, confidential or classified. A Minister takes an oath not to divulge such information or have it divulged in any way. 
What Minister is not an Executive Councillor? I have the advantage over  Senator Evans  in that I have been appointed a Minister nine times. That is not a smart Alec comment.  Senator Evans  can have the luxury of saying that it is nasty to leak secret information but the fact is that leaks come out of Minister's offices every day. 
I agree.  Senator Cavanagh  has taken the oath on three occasions. It is in fairly general terms. The point I am making is that we are talking about Tweedledum and Tweedledee. After a certain person was exposed for leaking information to a journalist a few years ago he said in the Parliament that he was not leaking information but backgrounding a journalist. I need not name the politician. He is now notorious. Since then leaking has become respectable provided people say that they are not divulging secret information but backgrounding a journalist. An honourable senator last week said that he had backgrounded a journalist. The Government and the Opposition are like Tweedledum and Tweedledee. With great respect to the Opposition whose views I respect on this matter, I think it is fair that the Leader of the Opposition, because of the generous concessions the Government has made to him, should not be on equal grounds with a Minister or Attorney in the responsibility placed on him when he is given information. 
1 have complimented the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in my speeches on this Bill not only for being generous in the way in which he has tried to meet the Opposition's amendments- not as much as we would have wanted him to, but at least he has made some gesture- but also for the logic which he has applied on many occasions in response to our amendments. However, this time I am singularly unimpressed with the reason that he gives as to why the Government is opposing this amendment. I would have thought that he is bringing an argument to the point of absurdity when he says that the reason for not agreeing to the Opposition's amendment is that it will tell our enemies how many telephone taps we have made and how many warrants we have issued. Surely to goodness, if we have some spies among us or people who are intent on doing us in, they would know very well- each terrorist organisation would know- how many warrants have been issued and how many telephone taps have been made. They would not have to go to an annual report to the Parliament to find out that kind of information. 
A terrorist organisation or an organisation threatening the security of Australia would not have to wait the four or five months after the end of the financial year when the report is tabled in the Parliament to find out how many times they had been raided or how many times warrants had been issued to search their premises. An even more basic matter of principle is that, I think, the Parliament, the Senate on this occasion, is giving up its powers of total government supervision of individuals to a secret organisation. It does that quite willingly. But we believe that if the Parliament is to give up those powers, it is entitled to receive a general report on statistics which this Opposition amendment requires. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Proposed new clause 92D. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Was the National Association of Testing Authorities registration of laboratories, referred to in the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1389  (Hansard,  20 March 1979, p. 795), only one part of action proposed by the Department of Health in relation to food poisoning outbreaks, and were voluntary codes of Good Hygienic Practice and Product Recall procedures also to be introduced by industry. 
Was industry told that voluntary registration and codes of practice would become mandatory if industry response was not satisfactory. 
Has industry response in these three areas been satisfactory; if not, is the Department of Health prepared to move to the implementation of mandatory laboratory registration and codes of practice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Federal Government paid compensation to any persons who suffered injury or financial loss due to the Hilton Hotel bombing. 
) Will the Government give special consideration to persons, such as police officers, who are not eligible for compensation under the New South Wales Workers ' Compensation Act. 
I ask the Minister for Education a question concerning a dispute in Victoria, about which I asked him a question on 9 May to which he gave me a most hopeful and helpful answer. The dispute concerns a ban by the Victorian Teachers Union on its primary teachers' supervising student teachers in the classroom because the allowances paid to student teachers are not as high as those paid to secondary teachers. Is it true that the dispute has been continuing for two years? I ask the Minister whether in his answer to me he stated: 
My current understanding is that the Academic Salaries Tribunal itself is meeting on or about 21 May, and it may well have before its consideration whether it can hear the dispute. 
In response to that statement  Senator Button  interjected that the Tribunal did not have the power to do so.  Senator Carrick  disputed that statement.  Senator Carrick  then concluded his answer by stating: 
If it appears that there is an impasse on this whole situation, I would certainly want it to be resolved.  1 now ask the Minister: Is it true that the Commonwealth has argued that  Mr Justice  Ludeke of the Academic Salaries Tribunal did not have power in this area and therefore the dispute is still unresolved? Will the Government introduce a simple enabling amendment to the legislation as a matter of urgency this session so that the Tribunal can hear the matter and resolve it? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Is the opal cutting and dealing industry seriously affected by foreign competition, especially from Hong Kong. 
Does the Export Expansion Grants Act 1978 exclude opal from benefits, unless permanently mounted or strung, thus giving no encouragement to the cutting industry within Australia. 
ls the export value of the opal industry in excess of $30m and could its value be greatly increased if a higher proportion were processed in Australia instead of being exported rough and uncut; if so, will the Government take appropriate measures to encourage the opal cutting industry so that benefits in terms of both the external balance of payments and employment may accrue to Australia. 
It is always a pleasure, yet a difficulty, to follow  Senator Hamer.  The quality of his speeches- and today was no exception- is quite outstanding as is their courage and clarity. I look back with pride that I had the honour to be Minister for the Navy when  Senator Hamer  was a distinguished captain in that service. If I could just have an in-group joke with the senator, although I admired his speech tremendously I was sorry that he did not lighten it with a little comic relief by telling us how the Navy buries its admirals at sea. 
The Australian Democrats take this opportunity to condemn the Government for its economic policies, the lack of long term planning and the 'incredibility'- if I could use that word- of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  To that extent we are attracted to the Opposition amendment, moved by  Senator Walsh,  which seeks at the end of the second reading motion to add certain words to the effect that the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should be condemned for four reasons. We would certainly agree with the first three reasons given by the Opposition, but I dissociate myself and  Senator Mason  from the fourth reason, which I think spoils the amendment, which is to the effect that the Government's: 
. perverted and wasteful expenditure priorities as exemplified by its allocation of substantial funds in this Bill to indulge the travelling comfort of the Ministry whilst increasing the deprivation of the under-privileged. 
I believe that that paragraph spoils a very good amendment and enters into the field of partypoliticking and point scoring in which nobody ever wins. 
I will speak to those three points in turn and explain why the Australian Democrats express condemnation of the Government's economic policies. The measures introduced last week are simply more of those which have already failed. We would have thought it palpably clear that the measures introduced by  Mr Howard  on behalf of the Government were exactly the same as, except more of, measures which have been applied since the Fraser Government took office and which palpably have failed, lt is no use any longer to say, nor is it credible or believed, that the present economic difficulties can be attributed to the maladministration of the Labor Government. Good heavens, that was three and a half years ago. It is not good enough simply to blame overseas trends or influences for the present state of the economy. I would have thought that inflation demonstrably has not been reduced. Unemployment demonstrably has been increased. The economy is running at about 70 per cent capacity- 30 per cent idle capacity. Our human resources are about 1 1 per cent under used. In those circumstances I would have thought that sensible government would have said: 'Well, that is the set of policies we have applied to the economy for three and a half years and that is the result. Clearly, those policies must be wrong'. I would have thought that was a simple exercise in logic. But now we have more of the same- more cutbacks in the money supply. 
I have mentioned before and I mention again how disturbed the Australian Democrats are about the obsession this Government and the Treasury of this nation have towards the monetarists. They have an absolute obsession about it. They are fanatical about it. I remember the definition of George Santayna of a fanatic as a person who redoubles his efforts long after he has forgotten his aim. That seems to be this blind following of the monetarists theory. It used to be called, under another name, the quantity of money theory, which is still valid in certain circumstances. If the demand for goods and services is equal or near equal to the supply of goods and services and you inject more money into the economy you have the classical demandinflation situation of too much money chasing too few goods and services. But does anybody in the Treasury or anybody in the Government seriously believe that in the economy of Australia now the demand for goods and services is equating the supply of them? For that reason the Australian Democrats believe that to cut back on expenditure at this stage is going totally and absolutely in the wrong direction. It believes in the stimulation of certain industries to pick up the slack which would reduce the deficit by itself. We have a repetition of the policy of more taxesincreased taxes. 
I would now like to illustrate something and make a plea to those who sit with  Senator Mason  and I on the Opposition side of the chamber: Please do not assist the Government in its confidence trick about the 1.5 per cent surcharge. I think we on this side of the chamber ought to take a pledge that the 1.5 per cent surcharge will not be mentioned again, because in fact it .is not a 1.5 per cent surcharge. Let me give the figures. For a person paying income tax of 32 per cent of his taxable income, the surcharge of 1.5 per cent means an increase of 4.69 per cent in the actual tax paid. But since the 1978 Budget arranged for 12 months' surcharge to be collected over a period of only seven months, the actual increase in tax paid under the pay-as-you-earn system adopted in November 1978 was 8.04 per cent. This surcharge was to cease on 30 June 1979. The situation is made worse by retaining the present tax schedule and the current PA YE rates. The actual surcharge is thus equal to the 8 per cent I just mentioned, but by failing to allow for indexation a further hidden impost of 5.6 per cent is involved-  Mr Howard  claimed this as the rate of inflation- or, if you wish, 7.9 per cent, which is the consumer price index increase to March 1 979. Thus the actual impost on the taxpayer is not 1.5 per cent but 13.6 per cent, if you accept  Mr Howard's  inflation rate, or 15.9 per cent if you index it by the CPI figures in personal tax. 

 Mr Fraser himself said some time ago about taxation that governments sould be kept honest and not hide the taxes, and that is why he- I applaud him for it- still persists with tax indexation. But if the Government were honest it could drop the surcharge, implement the promised indexation and increase the tax rate by 15 per cent, which under the proposed measures is the real increase in the tax rate. About the same amount of tax would be collected under that proposal, but there would be no deception. I am not advocating that the Government should do that, but I am saying th?.t if it did that it would be honest. I plead with members of the Opposition and journalists to stop using this confusing figure of 1.5 percent. 
I would have thought that good economic policy should have gone in the other direction, that at this stage, when the Government is clearly not controlling inflation and when wage demands of the trade unions are quite properly being put to meet with rising costs, a tax cut would have been appropriate. 
What happens if there is a tax cut? It means that more money in real terms is placed in the pockets of consumers, the workers, which should allay demands for wage increases. We know that trade union leaders have their job to do and would be bound to go to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for increases, but at least it would give the Government some credibility when it went to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It could say: 'Look, the workers have more real spending money in their pockets, and that is a real case for you not to grant the amount asked for by the trade unions'. Leaving aside wage justice in terms of an increased share because of productivity and other factors and looking at the wage structure in terms of coping with increased costs, this certainly would be one sensible and logical way of combating inflation and allaying increases for wage demands. But the Government has gone the other way. 
At this stage I condemn the Government for the way in which it introduces its economic policies. It is not like the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies who, for all his faults and for all his virtues, had a bounding respect for the institution of parliament. I came into this Parliament when he was Prime Minister. The one gospel lesson I was taught was that if a Cabinet Minister leaked information he would be sacked and there would be a wholesale investigation. But what is the spectacle today, what was the spectacle of last week and the week before that? Journalists who are respected in the Gallery tell me that leaks were coming from the Prime Minister's office about an early election in 1980. What does that do for business confidence? What does that do for people in the country- not necessarily in this place- in regard to their respect for the leader of the nation? The Prime Minister knew the leaks were on. Whether he was personally responsible for them or not is not the question. The leaks were coming from his office. One word from him could have dissipated those rumours. 
The point that I am making is that it might be a good political tactic, but we should consider what it does to business confidence if rumours are circulating and the columnists of daily newspapers and the weekly newspapers are speculating that an election could be held 12 months early. Because of the damage to the economy I call upon the Prime Minister to clamp down on Cabinet leaks for political purposes and to clamp down on his Ministers leaking information. I compare Cabinet Ministers in their behaviour of the last few weeks to a sieve. That comparison is realistic. What does a sieve do? It leaks material regularly and by design. So does Cabinet. For a period of three to four days almost every daily newspaper in the country had leaks on the front page. Most of these leaks turned out to be true. It is a matter of academic interest whether or not they were deliberate. However, the fact is that the leaks were accurate and while they were circulating the business community was floundering and becoming unstable. 
The Government has exacerbated another problem with this new package, to give it a name. It has further diminished demand. We were devastated to read that food prices in April rose by 3. 1 per cent, the highest monthly rise for six years. The food price increase for the year is now 14. 1 per cent. One wonders what this does to the consumer habits of pensioners, low income groups and even people in middle income groups. It makes them tighten their wallets, thus reducing consumer demand. In turn this increases unit cost which in turn causes inflation, which in turn causes unemployment. The massive increase in health care costs and taxes that have just been announced will lead to higher wages which will further lead to under capacity, more inflation, more unemployment, a larger deficit, and more cuts. The inevitable cycle repeats itself with increasing frequency. 
I turn to the economic illogicality of this sort of policy. I asked the Parliamentary Library to give me an estimate of the cost to the Budget of unemployment. I am not talking about the cost of unemployment to the psyche, to the character, to the soul, to the outlook and to the philosophy of people who genuinely want to work but who cannot. That cannot be measured in terms of money, but it is reflected in the Budget in dollars. The figures that the Parliamentary Library has given me are for 1978-79. The figures for this year would be far in excess of those. It is estimated that $750m will have been paid in unemployment benefits in 1978-79. In addition there is the loss of tax revenue. Based on an average weekly wage of $ 160- which is the minimum adult male rate- and taking into consideration that a proportion of workers would be single taxpayers and a proportion would claim for dependent spouse, another $620m would be involved. I know that these figures err on the side of conservatism. They total a $ 1,370m cool addition to the deficit. Yet the deficit increased last year by $ 1 billion and will increase over budget this year by an amount which is yet to be disclosed. The fact that it will be out of hand is inevitable. Yet we have more of the same policy. For that reason we agree with the first three prongs of the Opposition 's amendment. 
We also condemn the Government for a lack of long term planning which is leading to instability in the economy. As I mentioned earlier, we believe that certain industries should be selectively stimulated. For several reasons, the Australian Democrats choose the housing industry. Firstly, it is notoriously quick to respond to stimulus. Secondly, the grip of militant trade unions and trade unionists is not as dominant in the home building industry as in the commercial building industry. Thirdly, if the home building industry is stimulated it lifts ancillary industries. I thought that it was a pathetic attempt by  Senator Webster  to tell the Senate that the housing industry was about to go into a boom. Despite this, thousands of people want to build homes and thousands of people capable of building homes are unemployed. We believe that an answer can and should be found. We believe that $40m per month at a subsidised rate of interest ought to be injected into the home building industry as a temporary measure. On our calculation the savings of unemployment benefit payments which would result, the increased taxes which the Government would receive plus the repayments of the loans over a period, would improve the Budget deficit situation. I will not be told that houses cannot be built at subsidised rates of interest. It has been done for 50 years in this country with war service homes. It is done with terminating building societies and it is done under the Commonwealth and States housing agreements. We believe that this is one measure which the Government could take to give some confidence to the business community. 
Again I look to manufacturing industry. I speak to many Australian manufacturers- large, medium and small. Most of them are desperate because they do not know what the Government's policies are. They change from week to week, month to month. The manufacturers are so desperate that they say: 'We don't give a damn what the Government's policies are. Let it make them as tough as possible but for God 's sake let it stick to them so we can plan ahead '. Recently we had another car plan. In this country we ought to wake up to ourselves about manufacturing industry. Sometimes I get a little tired of the academics in Treasury and in the Industries Assistance Commission who make erudite judgments and wise speeches saying that we should get rid of all inefficient, uneconomic industries and do only the things we can do well. 
I would agree with this theory if I were at university doing an economics degree. That would be an answerable argument. But what the hell are we going to do to find jobs for the 200,000 young people who will enter the work force in the next 10 years? Will they enter the Public Service? God forbid! Will they enter mining? Mining might boom again. It is a capital intensive industry, not a labour intensive industry. Will they enter primary production? One hopes that there will be an increase in that area but the rural community of Australia has decreased from 45 per cent in 1912 to 8 percent today. There is a world wide exodus of people from rural communities to the cities. Will they enter tertiary industries? We know that they are dependent on the success of the economy. Therefore I come to the perhaps over-simplistic view that if we are serious about our long term future we have to tell manufacturing industry that it can have protection. I know that 'protection' is a nasty word. It is not used very often nowadays. But let us be honest. Do we want a manufacturing industry in 
Australia? Do we believe it can survive against low-cost countries, unfair competition and dumping being carried out by almost every country? Australia's record in this regard is almost totally honest, to the point of being naive. Are we going to say to our manufacturers that they cannot be protected? I am suggesting that every two bit manufacturer who does not deserve protection should be given it because he holds out his hand. 
Surely some overall view should be taken of where our goals should be not in 12 months, but in five years or ten years. Certain manufacturers should be told now that in five years their operations will be phased out. At that time the Government will retrain their staff and give them compensation, but after that time the manufacturers can no longer look to the Government for protection. But the other manufacturers, to whom we look to employ our young people, ought to be told what are the Government's guidelines, to go ahead and use their ingenuity, skills and know-how and develop and expand under those guidelines. That sort of long term planning seems to be non-existent. 
We know that there will be a petrol shortage, not only in Australia but throughout the world in X number of years. It has come much quicker than many of the experts predicted. There is a petrol shortage in the United States of America now. Are we going to bumble along and not find a solution until we are hit with a shortage? If one can believe anything that the Premier of Queensland says, one can believe that sugarcane can be grown in Queensland. I have made inquiries on the matter. The amount of sugarcane which could be grown in Queensland could be doubled. There is that much land suitable for growing sugar-cane, from which power alcohol can be extracted to be injected into a mix in petrol tanks to drive internal combustion engines. At this stage, I pay a compliment to the Government for the additional $ 1 m that it has put into research in this area.  Senator Colin  Mason and I have been advocating this for two years. 
But where are the guidelines? Are we going to wait until some politician tells Australia 'Yes, we are short of petrol; it is a crisis', and then rubbish the conservationists who say 'Hands off the Great Barrier Reef? Is that going to be the rationale? If past patterns repeat themselves, it will simply be that. Are there any plans for solar energy? Good heavens, solarcal in the State of California has been a most dramatic, outstanding and fantastic success. By 1980 one-quarter of southern California will have its energy provided through solar energy plants along the Californian coastline. This will provide 386,000 jobs, and yet only two weeks ago we learned that the Government, on the recommendation of a committee of Ministers that advised it, let a contract for solar energy units for the Australian National Railways to an overseas tenderer, notwithstanding that efficient Australian tenderers had submitted quotes. I wonder again whether we are going in any direction at all. 
The third heading that I speak to in supporting three of the points of the Opposition's amendment is the Prime Minister's incredibility. I know I am using that word in the wrong sense. At least when I wrote it down 1 thought I was using it in the wrong sense. But then I thought that incredibility' means that we cannot believe he is real. Sometimes I wonder about that too. What I am saying is that Australia, at a time of economic crisis such as we are now in, needs a leader who people can trust. I do not trust the Prime Minister. It is not my forte to be critical of personalities. But I believe that when a man assumes the position of leader of the country, by whatever methods he adopted, his credibility has to be sound and accepted by the Australian people, otherwise people will not follow him and we will have divisiveness and worse trouble. 
The  National Times  last weekend listed 16 promises overtly broken by the Government. I will refer to only a few of them. When speaking on employment in November 1975,  Mr Fraser's  words were: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there bc jobs for all who want to work. 
Again, two years later he said: 
Unemployment will fall from February (1978) and keep falling. 
That is a promise absolutely broken. On 12 September 1978, the Prime Minister said, when speaking about inflation: 
Inflation at an annual rate of 5 per cent is within our reach by mid- 1979. It will go on falling under the policies of this Government. 
According to the figures of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  inflation is running at about 8 per cent per annum and will not improve in the next 12 months. I would like to speak briefly about health insurance because I was personally involved in it. On 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister said: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health does not decline. 
I think that that is an inaccurate quote, because I remember helping to write it. In fact, the Prime Minister said that we would maintain and extend 
Medibank. That was November 1975. 1 will give the history of the matter. At a public meeting a few months previously I had expressed the policy of the Liberal and National Country parties. The Prime Minister was on the platform. I received a standing ovation for saying what I said, which was that if we came to office the Liberal and National Country parties would abolish Medibank. I believed it then and I believe it now. I believe that a compromise was necessary in respect of the then existing health scheme. I said at the time, and still believe, that that scheme was one of the best national health schemes in the world. But it had the big failing of not covering about 9 to 10 per cent of the population for insurance purposes. The Prime Minister was on the platform. It was our policy to abolish Medibank. Later in the year I repeated the statement and I was called into  Mr Fraser's  office. He was then the Leader of the Opposition. I was told that that was not the policy and to retract the statement immediately. A meeting of shadow Cabinet Ministers was held at which I said that this was the first time I had heard of it. However, I retracted the statement. I said that if that was the policy I would retract the statement. But what has happened? Is Medibank still there or has it been dismantled? I feel that my personal integrity has been put on the line over that matter. But never in my mind at any time, until that moment, did I have any doubt about what the intentions were.  Mr Fraser  had this to say about pensions on 15 March 1977. 
We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
Before that, the Prime Minister had said that the Government would make increases in pensions instant and automatic. That was a policy I helped to draft for the Liberal and National Country parties, which was accepted unanimously. The policy was for quarterly indexation of pensions. Now a pensioner has to wait up to 16 months before having his pension adjusted. 
Under the heading 'Generosity to Jobless', the  National Times  points out that on 27 November 1 975  Mr Fraser  said: 
We will be generous to those who can 't get a job and want to work. 
Has the Government been generous to those who cannot get a job and who want to work? The article points out, quite correctly: 
School leavers are no longer eligible for unemployment benefits during the school vacation period. 
That bothers me. But what bothers me more are the kites now being flown by Cabinet Ministers by the leaks coming out of Cabinet.  Mr Lynch  two weeks ago to businessmen in Melbourne and  Mr Anthony  on the weekend saying that he does not believe in the lifestyle of those who live on the dole. If one follows the pattern of the Government, it seems inevitable that the people receiving the unemployment benefit will be the next under attack. 
The last issue I mention- I will not mention the other eleven- is the Australian Assistance Plan. Perhaps the Government's action with respect to it was the most barefaced of all. On 22 November 1975, as caretaker Minister for Social Security, I attended the one and only meeting of the caretaker Cabinet. I said that our policy on the Australian Assistance Plan was reasonably clear, as I had said in the Parliament, with the concurrence of the Liberal and National Country parties. I said that it was the most progressive and exciting development in social welfare ever introduced into the Parliament. It was a Labor initiative. I reported to the caretaker Cabinet that a great number of people were not sure about our total commitment to the Plan. I drafted a Press release and gave it to every Cabinet Minister, including the Prime Minister. The Press release stated: 
We will maintain and increase the Australian Assistance Plan. 
That had the approval of the Prime Minister and every Minister. Yet, in February 1976, at the first party meeting after the election was won, the Australian Assistance Plan was abolished. One wonders why the Prime Minister has lost total credibility and total respect. I have tried to keep- I believe I have kept- any personal feelings I have for the man out of my judgment of him. If I do not succeed in that, that is my weakness. But I believe I have succeeded. Whatever any of us personally thinks about the man, he is now leader of the country. He rules the Cabinet, he rules the Liberal Party of Australia. Under the party system, party members come into this chamber and vote according to what the Prime Minister says. 
Recently I have heard back benchers and Ministers of the Liberal Party whom I respect and like saying these sorts of words: 'Look, we know we have broken a promise, but aren't we better off if we come clean for the good of the country? Isn't that a more responsible attitude to adopt?' The Prime Minister is saying those sorts of words now- the 'noble' response. It reminds me of a sadistic husband who beats his wife supposedly for her own good and says while he is doing so: Sorry, dear, this is hurting me more than it is hurting you'. 
In conclusion, present methods are clearly not working. Australia has some appalling unmet needs, including serious poverty. Yet we let resources, machines and, above all, people stand idle. Brought together they could quickly supply our unmet needs. To call the Fraser Government's failure to bring them together 'good economic management' one would have to rewrite the dictionary. 
I will not repeat what  Senator Mason  said. The information is contained on pages 1 7 and 1 9 of the report of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council. As soon as  Senator Mason  asked the question,  Senator Webster  left the chamber, we presume to get the information. The report states: 
The airfield pit which contains500g of plutonium, dispersed in about1 tonne of salt in six steel drums, is covered only by a steel plate and a metre or so of soil. 
The half life of plutonium is 24,000 years. This report says:   the risk will diminish in the future. If some action is taken to remove or secure the retrieval plutonium at the airfield cemetery, and to make secure pits containing substantial amounts of cobalt-60, the same statement can be made about that burial area. 
It was referring to Taranaki. All I am asking is: Does the Government propose at some stage to answer  Senator Mason's  question as to whether something has been or is proposed to be done about that problem? 
I present the following petition from 123 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems bc taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I raise a matter that will be incredibly boring to people listening to this parliamentary broadcast but it is important to the Senate. I make two criticisms, one of myself in regard to something that happened today and one of the procedures in the Senate. For the benefit of people listening to the broadcast, let me say that the Senate is now at the Committee stage debating department by department the Appropriation Bill, which is a Bill to provide the Government with certain moneys, and that the Senate looks at those expenditures more minutely than does the House of Representatives. We are examining five departments one of which is the Department of Science and the Environment. Fortuitously, today  Senator Webster  presented to the Senate a report on radiological safety and future land use at the Maralinga atomic weapons test range, prepared by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council.  Senator Mason  and I looked at the report for about 10 minutes. It is a complex technical document containing 99 pages but that is all the time we had in which to read it. Naturally enough, we turned to page 16, which gives the present and future situation at Maralinga. In both of those chapters there were sentences which leapt out at us caused us great concern. For example, there was the statement that there was about a pound of plutonium buried under the soil only a metre deep with just a steel plate on top of it. 
The honorable senator has anticipated me. That is why I am criticising myself. On the page where it says this, and that there is a risk but that the risk will diminish, there is no mention of the fact that the plutonium has been sent back to the United Kingdom. 
-I thank the honourable senator for his interjection. On page 1 7 of the report there is a footnote which reads: 
Since this was written, the Minister Tor National Development,  Mr Kevin  Newman, has announced that this plutonium has been removed from Maralinga. 
I ask, which plutonium? I now want to be critical of the person who either wrote or edited this report; it is a disgrace. There is an asterisk at the bottom of that page. Plutonium is mentioned 14 times on that page, but I will give $100 to any civil servant in the Gallery who can find an asterisk on that page, unless it is the one at the bottom. So one sees the asterisk and then looks at the page to see to which one of the 14 references to plutonium the asterisk refers. But there is no asterisk there. I raised the question and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  was good enough to say that he would provide an answer. In the five hours since I have received the report I have read it and I have found the answer. 
I intend to be critical of the procedures because they seem to be almost insane. I think from memory it was a few months ago that it was front page news in every newspaper in the country that there was dangerous plutonium at Maralinga. The newspapers considered it to be a good story and played it up. But the story dies with barely a whimper when this report comes into the Senate. No senator, except those who are leaders of parties, have had a chance to have a prior look at it, other than for a short time only. The report is introduced by a Minister, and a member of the Opposition then seeks leave to move a motion. Only after leave is given- if it is given, and it is not always given; my colleague  Senator Mason  was refused leave some time ago- is a .member of the Opposition able to move that the Senate take note of the paper and make a few remarks about it. I ask: What sort of sensible, sensitive, intelligent comment can anyone make, even a person in the class of genius, on a most technical report of 99 pages on a very serious subject, after having seen it for only a few minutes? This is not a criticism of the Government; it is a criticism of the system. I ask: Is it not possible for the Minister to table the report and at least give members of the Opposition 24 hours in which to study it in order to see whether some sensible response can be made to it? 
This is not the only instance of this kind. From memory, this week we have had some incredibly important papers and reports laid down by Ministers. There was the Industrial Relations Bureau report. That came into my purview about 10 minutes before it was moved, seconded and voted upon in this chamber. The other point is that once this process takes place and the Minister, on the presentation of papers, produces the report, and then somebody moves a motion that the Senate take note of the report, the debate is adjourned to a future day of sitting. It is then put right down at the bottom of the Notice Paper, but no senator here believes that it will ever be resurrected for sensible debate unless there is enormous pressure. 
I make a point of saying that I have now seen the report. On my quick reading of it, much of my fear has been removed. I do not want to steal my friend  Senator Georges'  thunder, but what an absolute disgrace this report is to the Department or whoever was responsible for it. It is dated January 1979 and relates to a matter which was front page news. Apparently it was delivered to the Minister on 2 February 1979, with a typewritten list of errata on the front which would lose three marks out of 10 for a matriculation student doing an essay. One must be critical of whoever did that. If  Senator Georges  does not mind me repeating a point that he raised today- 
The point that he raised related to page 55, where the comment is made: 
Pit 6 is in this area of very high surface plutonium contamination. 
In this crummy little errata sheet, stuck on the front of the report with a stapler, it says: 
Page 55, line 14, for very high read relatively high 
It is almost ludicrous, and it is a reflection on the very distinguished people who were on this Committee, that they would even let a report like this go out in this condition. 
Madam  Chairman,  I conclude my remarks by taking this opportunity to criticise not only this report but also the basic procedures of the Senate where some incredibly important documents are tabled and very few senators have any time or opportunity to make a sensible or sensitive response to them. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. I am genuinely seeking information about why the Government voted in the way it did yesterday on the matter of public importance concerning oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef. As I understand it, the motion moved by the Opposition contained three components. The first related to the Prime Minister's complete and unequivocal guarantee that the Government would not allow drilling that would do any damage to the reef. The second related to the Queensland Government's intention to allow drilling in the region of the reef. The third component related to the Commonwealth Government's maintaining full jurisdiction and control over the Great Barrier Reef region. Which of those three components impelled the Government to vote against the motion when it was put? 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and the Government for honouring the undertaking given to me to allow me to deliver the second reading speech before the end of this session. I thank very sincerely also the staff of the Senate for assisting me in the preparation of this quite complex Bill. Notwithstanding the Bill's complexity, its aim is very simple. The purpose of this Bill is to bring back half-yearly indexation of social security and repatriation pensions and benefits and to restore the status quo as it was before the legislation of 1978. I will be relatively brief because almost everything that needs to be said about this matter has been said by me and other members of the Opposition. I will confine myself now to what  I  believe to be the essential things that need to be said in a second reading speech. The main reasons that I have taken this action are: 
The large number of people affected by pension and benefit rates. 
The importance of immediate and automatic indexation to the welfare and security of pensioners. 
The serious hardship caused by the present yearly indexation system. 
The overt promise broken by the Government. 
This issue has wide support in the community. Pensioners' organisations are campaigning for the restoration of half-yearly indexation as a top priority. Even the Victorian Liberal Government announced that all State benefits would be indexed half-yearly. A number of Government senators and members of the House of Representatives, as well as the Opposition, the independent senator and the Australian Democrats, have spoken out against the change from six-monthly to once-a-year indexation of pensions. In spite of all this outcry, the Government has persisted in its aim of saving at the expense of those least able to afford it. 
Those affected are not just a small group. There are about 1 .3 million age pensioners, and an additional 60,000 wives of pensioners. At a conservative estimate, about a quarter of a million people are receiving unemployment benefits, and there are 650,000 repatriation pensioners and 188,000 service pensioners. This gives a total of around 2.5 million people that have been affected. 
Immediate and automatic indexation of pensions is an absolute necessity, both to protect pensioners' standard of living and to give them emotional security. This is the point which has been emphasised over and over again by pensioner organisations and welfare agencies. 
In 1975, when the Liberal Party was reforming its policies, I was shadow Minister for Social Security and  chairman  of a committee on social welfare policy. These organisations which represent pensioners stated unanimously that this was their top priority. That was why we wrote it into the Liberal Party policy, and emphasised the point in the 1 975 Federal election campaign. It was also repeated in the 1977 election campaign by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In going back on this overt promise, the Government has brought pensions back into the political arena, and made them once more a 'political football', to be kicked around at Budget time. Since the 1978 Budget, with its announcement of the dropping of half-yearly indexation, every Budget will bring new anxiety to pensioners. Every year they will have to worry about what new changes the next Budget will bring. So we are back to where we were in 1975, when everyone agreed that this insecurity had to be remedied. 
The main excuse which the Government offered in August 1978 for breaking its promises to pensioners was that the rate of inflation was now so low that no hardship would result. I reject this excuse utterly. Firstly, pensioners are entitled to the protection of their living standards whether inflation is at a high or a low level. Secondly, pensioners are indeed suffering hardship, as I will now demonstrate. 
The current annual inflation rate, as measured by the consumer price index increases in the 12 months to March 1 979, is about 8 per cent. But in  November when pensioners receive their yearly increases, it is based on the CPI figures for the year ending the previous June. So pension rates fall behind the cost of living by not 12 months, but 16 months. The loss of purchasing power is of the order of 1 1 per cent, meaning a cut of about $6 a week in real terms to every pensioner. 
However, the real situation is even worse than this. Most economic commentators agree that the inflation rate will increase in the June quarter, and that in the coming year it may approach 10 per cent. Food prices are increasing much faster than the CPI, with a rise of 3. 1 per cent in the month of April, giving a notional yearly increase of over 14 per cent. Pensioners and other lowincome groups spend a higher-than-average proportion of their incomes on food. They are therefore more seriously affected than is the average family, and their nutrition standard must suffer accordingly. 
The latest figures from the Melbourne University Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, as reported in the Melbourne  Age  on Friday, 1 June, confirm that the 'poverty line' has been rising steadily, leaving people on pensions and benefits further and further below it. Last November, when pension levels were set, a single age pensioner receiving $53.20 per week was $ 1 above the poverty level. One could hardly call this too generous. Three months ago, this pension was 50c below the poverty line, and it is now almost $3 below. Imagine how much worse it will be in November 1979 when pensioners get their next annual increase. 
Other pension or benefit recipients are even worse off. An unemployed single person, and an unemployed married couple with two children, are each about $18 a week below the poverty level. An unemployed couple with four children are $28 below, a single parent with one child is $2 1 below, and a single parent with two children is $27 below the poverty level. This means that literally many thousands of Australian children are living in absolute poverty. What are we going to do about this in this International Year of the Child? 
According to the Melbourne  Age  of Friday, 1 June,  Mr Jona,  the Victorian Minister for Community Welfare Services, criticised the Federal Government- his own party- for abandoning its responsibilities in the area of income maintenance, and added: 
We are spending 25 per cent of our Budget on services that are designed to prop up the inadequacies of Commonwealth funding. 
He was referring to Victoria's own Budget. People in need are being passed on to the voluntary agencies, whose resources are now practically exhausted. 
In conclusion, I plead with the Government today to allow the second reading debate to proceed immediately, and the Senate to vote on this urgent Bill before it rises this session. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Is there a seconder to the motion? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) ls suicide now the second most common cause of death in the late teenage and young adult agc groups, exceeded only byroad accidents (see  the Age,  20 March 1979). 
Is there any known connection between suicidal behaviour, dangerous driving, drug taking and alcohol abuse. 
ls it likely that these tragic forms of behaviour will increase, in view of the increased stress and anxiety among young people due to unemployment and warnings of a 'blitz' on unemployment benefits. 
What measures will the Government take to alleviate the situation. 
My question is directed to the Ministers representing the Minister for Industrial Relations and the Minister for Transport. It is based on information which I have just received and whose accuracy I regret I have not yet been able to check. Because of the urgency involved, I ask that one of those two Ministers here communicate the information to both relevant Ministers in the House of Representatives. As I understand it, a new trade union, called the Airways Employees Association, has been formed in the airline industry, essentially as a breakaway of people employed in the airlines who formerly belonged to the Federated Clerks Union. It is small at the moment, with 1,500 members, and has not yet applied for or been granted registration, but the information I have received is that in the last two days up to 12 members, who are airline clerical staff, have been sacked by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia without being given any reason. The only common denominator in the sackings appears to have been that the persons sacked have belonged to the new trade union. Further, persons who have been sacked have been told by officials of the Federated Clerks Union: 'That will teach you a lesson not to form a breakaway trade union'. As I understand that there is already disputation and that strikes are either taking place or being threatened on this matter, will either Minister convey that information to both Ministers in the House of Representatives and ascertain whether there is any truth in it and, if so, whether appropriate action might be taken to prevent any further sackings for that alleged reason? 
I say without an air of patronage and more in sorrow than in anger that I was very sad to hear the speech by  Senator Puplick.  I marvelled at how different it was from the maiden speech he made here not so long ago, which I paid him the compliment of saying was one of the most magnificent maiden speeches that I had heard. I recall to mind a section of his original speech. He said: 'Let us not get down to party politicking or point scoring'. We have just heard 1 5 minutes of nothing else. That is sad in itself. I wondered about his naivety concerning the kites which have been flown this week in regard to the reintroduction of university fees, application of a means test for the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and whatever. I point out to  Senator Puplick  that if he had been here a bit longer he would have noticed that in latter years there has been a despicable practice in this building for leaks of that sort to come not from harmless students, trade unionists or whatever but from Ministers 'offices. 
-I would refer  Senator Teague,  who is another young, naive honourable senator, to my speech last week on the miniBudget. I and several people on this side of the chamber highlighted the fact that almost all of the numerous leaks that were front-page news in the newspapers for a period of about a week were entirely accurate. They were not the meanderings of some harmless students or some trade union leader. They were deliberate leaks from Ministers' offices. I said that this Cabinet is leaking like a sieve. That is a despicable practice and one that would not have been tolerated by  Sir Robert  Menzies. The attitude adopted by the Government is to let a kite fly that it is about to reintroduce university fees, apply a means test to TEAS allowances or do something horrific. Then when something is brought in that is not good, people say: 'It was not as bad as we thought it would be'. That is precisely the sort of comment I am going to make tonight. I am going to compliment the Government on certain aspects of this statement- I believe in giving credit where credit is due- but there are other features of the statement which I will attack, and attack fairly vigorously. I wish I could be as sanguine as  Senator Puplick  in his belief that this is the end of the proposal to reintroduce university fees or a means test on the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances. I wish I could be as confident as he is, because although the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  gave that assurance tonight- I did not see it but I accept his wordthere is still the Budget to be brought down and possibly another statement will be made before the end of the year. I would not put that prospect aside. I hope we can accept  Senator Puplick  's assurance, having heard the Minister give that guarantee. 
But let me look at the good parts of the statement. If we accept that we are in times of economic stringency, if we admit that there is an absolute necessity to reduce massively the deficit, which I do not accept, as I said last week- in fact I think the Government's economic policies are going in the wrong direction- there are certain things in this statement for which we should be grateful and to which we should pay due credit. I refer, for example, to the significant increase in the Technical and Further Education allowance. That is good and commendable. It is a move in exactly the right direction. I mention, without trying to detract from that praise, that from memory the Government funds only 10 per cent of the TAFE allowance, and that 90 per cent is funded by the States. 
Exactly. I have already said that. It is very generous in the circumstances. I will concede that. But unless that lead is matched by an equally generous attitude at the next Premiers Conference in relation to general purpose funding, the significance of that lead will be seriously diminished. 
We welcome, too, the increase in real terms in Level 6 spending. That is a departure from the philosophical thrust of last year's statement which tended to give more money to the richer schools. We welcome this increase, even though it is marginal and even though it is small. We commend it and praise the Government for it. We also strongly commend the Government for its initiative- I think  Senator Button  overlooked this in relation to the evaluative program that has been introduced or increased in this particular statement. The Australian Democrats are extremely keen about this move. We believe that there is too much overlap in this area and that there is a great need for more of an evaluation concept. But we do not think the statement goes far enough. We think that the Minister ought to instruct the Schools Commission to bring down by 15 August, which I think is the date he mentioned in the paper, some concrete plan as to how that overlap and wastage might be remedied. 
We praise the Government for the continuation for the second year of the Galbally Review of Post-arrival Programs and Services to Migrants. We commend the Government for doing that. We certainly believe that it is not nearly enough. Let us consider the sorts of schools in the poorer areas of Melbourne to which I know you frequently go, Madam Acting  Deputy President.  Those schools have an ethnic population of some 90 per cent. To quote my own daughter who is a primary school teacher, of 43 pupils in a class in a lower socioeconomic suburb, only 5 can speak English. But I do not detract from my commendation of the Government on that section of the statement. 
The existing level of funding for disadvantaged groups is to be preserved in real terms. We commend the Government again for that. We commend the Government for its activities in the area of pre-service teacher education. The Minister has instructed the Schools Commission to look at the waste in resources because there are too many teachers. That is a welcome announcement. It runs directly opposite to an answer which the Minister gave to me in the Senate on 2 May. I asked him whether the Australian Education Council working party estimated the number of fully trained teachers in Australia who were either unemployed or working in positions other than teacher as being between 9,750 and 14,700, constituting a waste to taxpayers of between $195m and $3 billion. The Minister hedged the answer and said it was not as simple as that. For that reason alone I am delighted to know that now there is to be a virtual instruction to the Commission to ensure that resources, particularly in relation to pre-teacher training, are put to the best use. 
I turn to the crux of the matter in relation to which we would like to be critical of the statement. Firstly, there is no real growth allowed in the area of universities and colleges of advanced education. In the Minister's own words, there is a 0.2 per cent overall decrease. That is his figure; I have not had time to check it. Since 1975, universities and colleges of advanced education have not been encouraged to take on new staff. This is something that cannot be measured in terms of cost, which means almost the entrenchment of outdated courses. Almost every principal of a college of advanced education or the vicechancellor of a university wants to unload certain courses which have outdated themselves because of the advancement in technology or sociological trends, and so on. That is the situation when new demands for new courses are made in those institutions. Let me give just a couple of examples, because I do not have much time. Let us take for instance leisure studies. One of the greatest problems we have in Australia is in relation to leisure. Most Ocker Australians would be very critical of me for saying this, but one of the few things that we cannot do well- in fact we do it appalling badly- is enjoy our leisure. It is at weekends or long weekends, Christmas, Easter or whatever, when the numbers of suicides, wife bashings, pack rapes, murders and the road toll soar. 
Here is a whole area which has already been embraced by tertiary institutions overseas, but because there has been no real increase in funding over the last 5 years, the outdated courses continue and the new innovative courses are not introduced. I refer to such things as programs for the aging, the hospitality industry; one could go on. We say that in the statement made by the Minister there should have been a financial incentive given to those institutions to enable them to retire early outdated teachers and lecturers. By that means they could review the curriculum of outdated courses and replace it with new courses. But there is no increase in the funding for this purpose; in fact, there is a decrease. The Minister rather glossed over that aspect and said that not much harm will be done. 
But when one looks at the costs of teritary institutions, one finds that between 80 per cent and 85 per cent of their costs go in academic salaries. That is obviously necessary because the massive recurring costs must be salaries. What is the situation if the grant remains the same? The overall figure, 1 am informed, for salary increments- and there is a technical term for it in the business- is 5 per cent per annum. In that circumstances there must be a 5 per cent increase each year, even to stand still in terms of development. When there is a 0.2 per cent decrease in funding, the situation is not standing still but in fact is going backwards. That puts an unseen, secret pressure on tertiary institutions to reduce further their activities. 
One of the most serious omissions from the Minister's statement concerns the serious decrease in the funding for government and nongovernment schools- a decrease of $29.6m for schools and $ 15.5m for tertiary education in the area of capital equipment and works. There has been no significant building carried out for 5 years. Although I agree with  Senator Puplick  and the Minister that secondary schools particularly and primary schools in new areas are a credit to the Commonwealth Government and to the respective State governments, appalling conditions still exist in an inordinate number of schools in the lower socio-economic areas and particularly in some of our tertiary institutions, although not universities to my knowledge. But let  Senator Puplick,  with great respect, visit the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology.  (Quorum formed).  1 do not thank  Senator Keeffe  for giving me a quorum. I am quite happy to speak to a half-empty Senate. I would have thought that when an honourable senator calls for a quorum, at least he would pay the senator on his feet the courtesy of asking whether he wants a quorum. I did not. 
If the honourable senator wants to play political games while members of his party are speaking, then let him play them. But he should, at least pay the courtesy of first asking somebody who is trying to address himself seriously to a subject whether he wants a quorum. We find relatively misleading that part of the statement in which the Minister said: 
. that enrolments in universities and colleges are now stabilising and that total enrolments in schools are beginning to decline. 
Whilst one may say that statistically one could produce figures to prove that, I think that an underlying reason would make those statistics lie. In universities of course they are stabilising because so many students who have done the popular courses in Arts now find that after a three-year course they cannot get jobs. In a survey that is the reason I have seen given why people are not going to universities. But with respect to colleges of advanced education I think there is another and more important story. These colleges have a far better record than universities in having their trained people placed in employment. I could cite a college in Melbourne where 98.4 per cent of those who graduated last year actually got jobs in the fields for which they were trained. If we compare that sort of record with the records of some universities, particularly in Arts, we would find that the universities could not match it. In one faculty of that same institution 2,000 applications for admission were received for 60 vacancies. The level of students at that college is stable. It is stable because the college cannot afford to take on any new lecturers. The ceiling is put down by the Government. The college has only a certain number of places. I think that that is an unanswerable case as to why the population of that college would continue to be stable. 
Of course, that sort of thing is leading to youth unemployment. I am not suggesting for one moment that we ought to extend tertiary education to cure the unemployment problem. I do not want any Government senator to think that I am suggesting that, because I am not doing so for one moment. But do not let us be led into the view that it is good economics to cut back on places in tertiary education to save the deficit. The figures that I have show that in a college of advanced education, as distinct from a university, it costs $40 a week to maintain a student, whereas the unemployment benefit now is well above $50. 1 think it is false economy to think in those terms. 
Another point that we would like to make is that the annual funding of capital works must revert to triennial funding. We think that it is insanity for the Government to say to the various institutions around the country: 'You will get your funding for capital works and equipment only yearly '. How is the name of fortune can they plan ahead? This year the rather massive cuts in that respect must have cost millions of dollars nationwide because of the inefficiency and lack of indicative planning in this area. We criticise that part of the statement concerning nongovernment schools because we believe that it is a breach of an undertaking given, I understand, as far back as the time when  Sir William  McMahon was Prime Minister. He said that the minimum per capita grant for all nongovernment schools would be 20 per cent per pupil running costs of students in government schools. The statement delivered tonight says that the Government has had to defer making that further step in 1 980. We believe that that is a breach of trust to thousands of people, particularly those with children at Catholic parish schools- not in the Level 6 variety- who are paying just as much tax as anybody else but who are paying an inordinate amount of their own incomes to subsidise the education of their children. We see little or no justice in that. 
The final point on which we criticise the statement is that it contains absolutely no incentive to the States for rationalisation. We believe that there is a great deal of duplication between TAFE and colleges of advanced education. All over the country one can see examples of a college of advanced education almost a stone's throw from a TAFE institution, both institutions having libraries, computers and offering the same courses. We believe that some instruction ought to be given to the Tertiary Education Commission to report on how that situation might be rationalised by the time the Minister considers this matter in the context of the Budget. In summary, we can see some good points in the statement. We do not believe- for reasons I described in my speech last week- that the massive cuts are necessary because of the economic situation. But we condemn most of the things that I mentioned in the latter part of my speech. 
I present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present two petitions from 127 and 163 citizens of Australia, respectfully, as follow: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920.000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strikea cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
by leave- I claim to have been misrepresented and wish to make a brief statement. I have been misrepresented this time by  Senator McLaren,  but only mildly, for a change. When speaking last night in the debate on the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill,  Senator McLaren  said: 
We find that  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Martin  and also  Senator Chipp  spoke from the other side. 
He was speaking in the debate on the statement on education. He went on: 
Therefore, the Government cannot blame the Opposition for delaying the Senate tonight. 

 Senator Archer then said: 
Don 't put Chipp on our side. 

 Senator McLaren then said: 
He is not on our side . . . 
I thank both honourable senators for clarifying the position. The Australian Democrats are on neither side. The point I want to make is that it is misrepresenting my speech for  Senator McLaren  to say that I was on the Government side. It is true that half of my speech complimented the Government in areas where I think it had done wise and courageous things. But the latter half of my speech in relation to the statement on education I think fairly and vigorously attacked that part of  Senator Carrick  's statement where I believe that it ought to have been attacked. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question concerning the investigation, into charges of corruption in the Federal Narcotics Bureau, by representatives of the Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and Commonwealth police forces. Although totally supporting the Government in ordering an investigation, I ask the Attorney-General to provide the Government's reasons for placing that investigation in the hands of police officers whose antagonism towards the Federal Narcotics Bureau is well known and who, in the case of the three State police forces, have had several allegations of corruption in the narcotics area levelled against them in the last few months. Will not such an investigation expose the sensitive data presently held in the Narcotics Bureau's files to police officers who could conceivably be guilty of cor ruption themselves? Would not an inquiry by a judge be more appropriate in the circumstances? 
The Australian Democrats oppose this clause. If clause 7 can be described as the gun which shoots, clause 8 is the aiming mechanism or direction finder that points the gun in a certain direction. I would refer the Government and the Minister to the concern of the Australian Government Lawyers Association, which is expressed in these terms: 
As clause 8 stands, it would give the P.S.B. wide power to single out employees by names or description. The situation is rendered even worse by the operation of clause 6 which would allow particular employees to be exempted- thus opening the way for an otherwise general set of redeployment criteria to be aimed at particular persons or groups. 
My reading of the Bill would lead me to agree with that opinion. I must say, and this is something that I do not often say in this chamber or out of it, that I just cannot follow or accept the answer that the Minister has just given  Senator Button  in relation to clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii). I find it almost incomprehensible that he would say that obviously clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii) cannot be looked at on its own, and that it has to be related to clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (i) and clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (ii). For that reason, we would oppose clause 8 as strongly as we oppose clause 7. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
When will the Minister announce a specific financial commitment to the Common Fund for world commodity price stabilisation, following the Australian Government's support for the establishment of the Fund. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) Has the cost of postage for country newspapers recently risen by up to 50 per cent; if so, is this increase contrary to the Postal Services Act 1975, Clause 7 (2), by which the Commission is required to have regard to the special needs of people who reside, or carry on business outside the cities. 
Do such high postal costs work against decentralisation measures. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question concerning the private member's Bill standing in my name on the Notice Paper, designed to restore the sixmonthly indexation of pensions, which effectively has been gagged twice by Government senators. Will the Government support a motion to suspend so much of Standing Orders as would prevent a debate and a vote by the Senate on that Bill, which at this stage I intend to move tomorrow? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many commercial leases have had their land rent conditions altered after the initial granting of the lease in (a ) 1977 and (b) 1978. 
) What are the details of the change in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
Is Australia completely dependent on imported computers; if so, will the Minister consider taking any measures comparable to those taken by the Brazilian Government to encourage the development of a computer manufacturing industry in Australia, thereby enhancing Australia's selfreliance in the field of defence, as well as providing business and employment opportunities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
Has the Electoral Office established procedures to conduct an election at large, in the event of this becoming necessary in any of the States; if so what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
Does Regulation R.2 10A ( 1 ) of the Army Law Manual prohibit Service personnel from joining or actively participating in political parties; if so: (a ) does this regulation infringe the civil liberties of Service personnel, and especially the right to freedom of association guaranteed by the United Nations; (b) does any similar regulation apply to: (i) members of the Commonwealth Public Service working in Defence establishments; or (ii) members of the Army Reserve; (c) does the Report of the 1973 Working Party on the 
Defence Force Disciplinary Code deal with this matter; and (d ) will the Minister consider amending the regulation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Do statistics reveal: ( 1 ) a substantial variation in the frequency rates of surgical operations between different States and areas within Australia; and (b) that the variation is especially marked in the case of elective surgery such as tonsillectomy and hysterectomy. 
Are the rates for some types of surgery in some areas so high as to cause concern. 
What action is proposed to introduce a monitoring system such as those now operating in New York and in Saskatchewan, or some other form of second opinion system, in order to protect the public and reduce health costs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
Why is the scheduled fee under the Revised Schedule of Benefits for removal of a skin cancer the same, regardless of whether the procedure is performed by a dermatologist or by a general practitioner. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Does the high toxicity  or  many agricultural chemicals used in spraying mean that any mistakes in proportions used could cause serious health and environmental hazards. 
) Will the Minister consider the dual use of metric and imperial measurements in all labelling and instructions on agricultural chemicals as long as may be necessary to minimise hazards duc to errors in conversion, in view of the Tact that spraying equipment made to imperial measurements may have a working  lire or  up to 20 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Is the Australian advertising industry dominated by foreign ownership. 
Is the advertising for major public utilities and statutory authorities, such as the Australian Wool Corporation, the Australian Dairy Corporation and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, handled by United States agencies. 
Does Australia differ greatly from Canada, in that all Canadian public authorities are obliged to use Canadian advertising agencies. 
Is the percentage of Canadian commercial firms using foreign advertising agencies only about 30 per cent, while in Australia it is approximately 60 per cent. 
Will the Government examine the Canadian practice with a view to its implementation in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
Will the Minister accede to the Australian Conservation Foundation's request for a modest increase in funding in 1979-1980 to enable it to carry out its function  or  information and advocacy effectively, in view  or  the fact that Government contributions to the Foundation remained static from 1972 to 1978, and were actually reduced by !6 in 1979. 
I absolutely support everything which  Senator Button  has said, but I go further. He very eloquently described the second category of people who could be pulled into this dragnet and have their telephones tapped or their communications intercepted. But the issue goes even further than that. I would say that the estimate of two million suspected users of cannabis in some form would be a conservative estimate, but we know that  Senator Button  always errs on the side of conservatism. But let us remember that since the latter part of this decade something like 65 to 85 per cent of the marihuana used in Australia has not been imported but has been grown locally. Hashish or cannabis oil is a different story. But as far as the leaves of the plant cannabis sativa are concerned, it is mostly locally grown. That is my first point. 
The second point I wish to make is that when I was the Minister responsible for these matters I established a section in my Department, which subsequently was taken over by the Department of Science, to try to find out the origin of any form of cannabis used in this country. I was dismayed to learn in answer to several questions on notice which I asked of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  that the officers of that section doing that work have been totally removed from that area for the past several years. I would very much doubt whether we now have the capacity in this country to prove that a certain piece of marihuana was imported or grown locally. To extend that argument, one would then have to say that if the person whose phone is being tapped in fact does have a joint, to use  Senator Walters'  colourful description, that person's telephone can be tapped. But if that joint were actually confiscated or that person were busted, to use another colourful term, and that person were charged, it would be impossible to prove an offence under the Customs Act because firstly it would have to be proved that the cannabis was imported. For that reason, I believe that this provision of the Bill is unjust and could lead to a great number of inequities. We support the Opposition on this issue. 
The Australian Democrats support the concept of this Bill. Unlike my colleague  Senator Gietzelt,  we very strongly support the concept of the Bill and will vote for the second reading. But we believe that many, if not most, of the amendments to be moved by the Opposition are eminently sensible and we will be supporting most of them. I hope that for once a government- this is not necessarily a criticism of the Liberal-National Country Parties which happen to be in government at the moment- might look at Opposition amendments to a very important Bill, consider them on their merits, and accept some of them. I am pleasantly surprised that, as I read them, some of the amendments go even further in relation to the intention of the Bill than the Government wishes. I personally support the concept of the Bill, particularly as it gives powers to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Narcotics Bureau to tap telephones and intercept telecommunications in certain circumstances and with certain safeguards. I must support it. I remember with some chagrin and disappointment that in 1972, when I was Minister for Customs and Excise, I put this very concept to Cabinet, asking for this very power for the Narcotics Bureau, and I was almost unanimously rolled in Cabinet. That was at a time when the heroin traffic in Australia was minimal. I warned Australia that by 1980 heroin would be the greatest single problem of our young people. I was castigated by the Parliament, by the Opposition. I was asked by newspapers to resign. They said: 'If the Minister cannot control the heroin traffic, he ought to resign'. People laughed at the suggestion that it could be a danger. 
It is now, I think, the biggest and most profitable industry in Australia, with an estimated annual profit of something like $200m. That is how important this problem is to Australia at the moment, particularly in relation to our young people. It is in that context, notwithstanding the respect that I have for  Senator Gietzelt  's concern about some of the possible infringements of civil liberties and respecting also the points that  Senator Button  and  Senator Puplick  made about the possibilities of abuse of some of the provisions of this Bill, that I say again to the lawyers in this Parliament: 'I have absolute respect for your training, for the kind of mind which you have but which I do not have, which can read unreadable English and make it legal; but this is a social problem as well as a legal problem, and when this Bill is debated '-I say this without impertinence, I hope- 'remember that there is a massive social problem out there and that we may have to take some chance on overprotecting civil liberties of people who can only be classed as monsters and creatures'. 
We are rather attracted to those Opposition amendments which reduce the length of operation of a warrant from six months. I understand that the Labor Party wishes to make that 90 days. I would have thought that 90 days was perhaps somewhat long, but we will certainly support that. We agree that the declarations should be on affidavit and not on oath. We think that is sensible. On my understanding of the two amendments to the two separate clauses, the Labor Party's amendment whereby a judge can give a warrant over the telephone would be welcomed by both the Narcotics Bureau and ASIO. That is one amendment which has been circulated and which, if I have read it correctly, I would ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to consider very seriously accepting. At this stage the Australian Democrats will probably vote against the few other Labor amendments; but let me say, without scoring a point, that we in our party are in a unique position in matters such as this. We will listen to the debate and, depending upon the eloquence of  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans,  we are liable to be persuaded during the course of the debate, which is a position that I suggest the Parliament and all senators ought to adopt. 
Let me mention why I believe that this is a very important Bill. I have mentioned before my concern about heroin. Various estimates are made of the extent of the traffic in Australia. I will talk in minimum terms. The minimum figure which I can get out of six or seven authoritative sources is that syndicates and businessmen are now making net profits, not turnover, of between $125m and $200m a year every year. Those profits are escalating each year not in arithmetic progression but in geometric progression. Secondly, that represents between 10,000 and 25,000 young Australians, equally divided between male and female and normally aged between 16 and 25 years, who are addicted to this disease, whose habit costs them between $400 and $900 a week and most of whom will be either classed as insane or dead within two years of addiction to their habit. 
I try not to be emotional over this problem, but I have been intimately concerned with it since 1969 and almost every warning that I have issued to Australia, to governments, has gone unheeded. Yet the problem grows. It would seem certain that the incidence of heroin addiction in a city in Australia at this time is higher than in any corresponding city of the United States of America. 
-Unfortunately, as the honourable senator would know, figures are impossible to obtain. I have mentioned this to health investigators and narcotics investigators, and a cross-section of sociologists who have studied the problem both here and in the United States of America. My information from all of them seems to be unanimous that about 12 to 18 months ago we turned the corner and that the per capita incidence is now higher. That does not mean to say that we are less healthy than the United States, because in that country there now seems to be a turn away from narcotics to other forms of drugs, particularly alcohol; but, in terms of heroin addiction, that is the information that I have. 
If honourable senators doubt the extent of the problem, they should take up an occupation in which I have become particularly adept in recent years, that of street walking. I do it in a totally amateur way, I might say; but, belonging to a political party that is impoverished, the only way we can propel ourselves in election campaigns is to have my notorious face exposed on the streets on Saturday mornings. During the last State campaigns I attended, when I walked through streets in St Kilda in Melbourne and Kings Cross in Sydney I was shocked, in a period of half an hour, to actually meet and see 14 young Australians who were addicted to heroin. I make no apology if I do become a little emotional over this situation. I believe that it has now reached almost catastrophic proportions. 
I mention it in this debate because, useful though this Bill will be in trapping the heroin pusher and useful though it may be in getting the top people in the syndicate- although I very much doubt whether this Bill will have any success in that direction because those sorts of people do not even make telephone calls to involve themselves in this activity- no honourable senator should kid himself or herself that simply because we have allowed the ....I---, as they are affectionately known, to tap telephones we will solve the heroin problem. That is only a drop in the ocean. It is only a small additional tool for this wonderful law enforcement agency in its pursuit of this sort of criminal. We have to look at different things. We have to look at drug education. We have to look at the question of marihuana or cannabis. The plea that I make in this speech is that if we continue to try to score points over the drug problem existing in this country there will be only one winner, and that is the heroin pusher and the syndicates. We had a most courageous and magnificent report by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, chaired by  Senator Peter  Baume. Politicians from different parties were able to sit around a table and produce a very contentious, politically acute conclusion. I cannot recall whether there were any dissenters from that conclusion but I do remember that people from different parties voted in the same way. I believe that unless the political parties of this country can reach consensus on the drug problem facing Australia- let us take politics out of it- it will reach proportions which will be quite frightening. 
Let me give two examples. I mention Des Corcoran, the Premier of South Australia. Perhaps I should not because people will think that I am either burying him or praising him now that the election announcement has been made. He is a decent, honest man and a good Premier. A very distinguished person researched South Australia after being asked by the previous Premier to make recommendations concerning the use and legalisation of certain drugs. I read the report and people with whom I have discussed it said that it was an objective, scientific report. It advocated the legalisation or decriminalisation of cannabis. Des Corcoran, the decent, honest, courageous Premier of South Australia said within 24 hours of the presentation to the report, I will not have a bar of it. We will not even discuss it'. 
Did he do that because he had read and digested the report and received advice on it? Of course, he had not. He did it only because he knew that the Liberal Party had a sword hanging over him and was ready to plunge it into his back if he suggested that the South Australian Labor Party was contemplating the decriminalisation of marihuana. The only reason that objective report was never discussed by governments was party politicking. In Victoria a decent, honest, able Premier, Dick Hamer, has exactly the same problem. He dares not move on the matter. He knows that if he moves, he too will be attacked by the Labor Party and accused of being a trendy or permissive. 
More particularly, he will be attacked by the Country Party. While all this is going on we have this massive national problem growing each day. Let me state my position. Nobody has opposed the decriminalisation or legalisation of cannabis more than I have in the past 13 years after listening and talking to sensible people and reading sensible reports like that presented by  Senator Baume  's Committee. If I had to vote on the matter tonight, I think that I would still have to vote against decriminalisation but the margin is getting closer; I am 51 per cent against it and 49 per cent in favour of it at the moment. If we could take politics out of the debate I think every honourable senator would feel free to vote according to his or her conscience and what he or she believed to be in the interests - 

 - Senator Button might make fun of what I am saying. I thought that his speech tonight was excellent- I pay him that compliment- except in one area in which it was absolutely pathetic. That was when he discussed the first amendment he proposes to move concerning the definition of narcotics. He also believes what I am saying, that there is a distinction between marihuana or cannabis and heroin or the other forms of narcotics. But he as  deputy  leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate would not dare to give a clue that the Labor Party would be interested in decriminalising cannabis because he knows that every Liberal senator would be onto him and his Party in a flash. The national debate would then be debased without a damn being given about the children who suffer. There is not a shadow of doubt- this is what is making me swing around to the views expressed by  Senator Baume-  that the illegality of cannabis or marihuana is causing further heroin addiction in this country. 
There is no doubt that the massive profits being made from cannabis, marihuana, hashish and hashish oil are being made very much by the same syndicates that peddle heroin. There is no doubt that their sure way of gaining further heroin addicts is to cut off the supply of pot or marihuana to a certain city for a certain time. That is the signal for kids in some flash of rebellion or revolt or for some other reason immediately to give smack, as it is called, a try. These things are proven and on the record. The point I am making tonight is that the Senate might contemplate this Bill, conduct an erudite debate on the protection of civil rights and dot the i's and cross the t's But do not let any honourable senator believe that the drug problem is helped even slightly by the introduction of this legislation tonight. I hope that we are moving to a stage when the political parties of this country will decide to have a bipartisan policy, a bipartisan attack, not on telephone tapping but on the drug problem in this country. 
Both  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans  have made speeches of impeccable logic. The Australian Democrats would totally support this proposed new clause if it ended after the first sentence. In my understanding there are two components of this proposed new clause. It provides that a report be laid before each House of Parliament on the effectiveness of activities undertaken by both the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Narcotics Bureau. With that I find no objection. I think it is constructive and I would support it to the hilt. But then the proposed new clause goes on to state that 'such report shall include details of warrants issued under each of sections 9 10, 11,20 and 21 of this Act'. 
I have read that part of the proposed new clause several times and married it with the Bill. If my understanding is correct, if this amendment were passed, in the report presented to both Houses of Parliament would be the names or identities of the persons whose telephones had been tapped or whose communications had be intercepted. To me, that would be an unthinkable proposition.  Senator Evans  rightly talked about privacy. Having been the Minister responsible in this area I realise that there are a lot of paranoic people around who love dobbing in people. It is incredible how persuasive they can be. On such evidence 1 can foresee an innocent person having his telephone tapped and then his name put into a report which is subsequently presented to Parliament. We support the principle, but the last sentence of the amendment seems to me to be totally impractical. I leave it to  Senator Button  or  Senator Evans.  If they would contemplate removing that last sentence we certainly would support the proposal, but we would not support it otherwise. 

 Thursday, 23 August 1979 

I should like to associate the Australian Democrats and those people who voted for us with this motion about this remarkable man, Earl Mountbatten. He was held in deep affection, respect and admiration by hundreds of thousands of Australian servicemen. More than that, Earl Mountbatten was an inspiration to hundreds of millions of people of all nations because of his decency, his integrity and his compassion. The final irony is that a man of such courage should be brought down by such a revolting act of an anonymous coward. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce: 
The need for legislation, without delay, to resolve distribution and marketing problems in the oil industry and to maintain effective competition and the continuing operation of a viable small business sector in the industry, by the implementation of the four proposals outlined by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Fife,  on 30 October 1978, namely: 
the prohibition of unfair discrimination by oil companies between their lessee or licensed dealers; 
that such a prohibition would not infringe upon the freedom of oil companies to price their sales to other independent buyers as they wish, subject to the existing law; 
that oil companies would be prohibited from themselves retailing petroleum through direct sales sites; and 
that lessee or licensed dealers would be given the right to obtain compensation from oil companies for an unjust termination of their lease or licence or a refusal by the oil company to renew a lease or licence. 
by leave- I would like to pursue what  Senator Georges  has just said. I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  for his generous handling of the matter in offering to have the documents incorporated in  Hansard.  However, notwithstanding the Minister's wish to be helpful, I would be very concerned if the Senate were to agree to that course. I have been given by the Government Whip the privilege of looking briefly at the papers. 
I asked the Government Whip for them, and I believe that the Opposition also has been furnished with a copy. They consist of a photostat copy of a newspaper, which could come from anywhere, and of a translation. The copy of the translation is not signed. It does contain some pretty heavy stuff. I am considering the matter as a precedent. Suppose that something similar, on an issue that was not quite as emotive as this, occurred in the future. An allegation could be made, be repeated on a national radio program and an honourable senator could then ask a question, further repeating the allegation in the Senate. Presumably, on such a basis the Senate could admit all sorts of garbage- written by the gutter Press or anybody else- in the context of clearing the matter up. Even though one puts it, as  Senator Carrick  has done with crystal clarity, that this is not to be taken as lending credibility to the documents, the fact that they will appear in  Hansard  in toto, unadorned, gives such documents a respectability which at this point they do not deserve. I ask you,  Mr President,  under the powers given to you by the Senate- of approving or not approving the incorporation of these documents- to adopt the suggestion of  Senator Georges  that you make your decision only after careful consideration and discussion. 
We have just heard from  Senator Peter  Baume an incredibly thoughtful and valuable speech, one that I think makes a great contribution to this debate. Therefore, I hope that he will forgive me- I feel a little guilty in making the point- if I commence my speech by referring to a slip that occurred in his. I do so not for the sake of scoring a point but for the sake of asking what is the value of my speaking here tonight, of  Senator Peter  Baume 's speaking here tonight, or of  Senator Evans  making an excellent 45 minute speech? We went through this last week on a similar Bill. I compliment the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  upon the incredible patience that he has displayed in sitting in this chamber for hour after hour and listening to debate, and upon the generous way in which he responds to Opposition criticism. But what in hell is the use of it all?  Senator Peter  Baume simply said: 'I do not agree with this but the lawmakers have decided that these are what the penalties will be and that is the way it is going to be'. I have the oldfashioned view that the Westminster system is designed on the basis of divisions of power; that the Executive frames the laws, that the Parliament, not the Executive, makes the laws, and that the judiciary attempts to give effect to the laws. Yet tonight,  Senator Peter  Baume, the Government Whip, who is one of the most able, honest and sincere people in this chamber, tells us this. 
I am not overdoing it; I mean it. If he were a councillor in local government he would vote for the second reading, as I will, but also most certainly would vote with the Opposition on several of the excellent amendments that will be proposed. Last week  Senator Puplick  make a similar speech. If he were to have a free vote he also would vote for several of the amendments proposed by the Opposition. Yet we go through this pathetic exercise in dealing with one of the most important Bills affecting humanity and civil liberties that have been brought before this chamber. There are eight senators present. When and if the division bells ring, other honourable senators will come into this chamber, look around to see where their mates are sitting and put their bums down on a seat. They will vote with their bums. After the doors have been locked they will casually turn to their mate and say, 'What are we voting for?' I wonder if there is any purpose in going through the excellent Committee stage debates that we have had lately in which  Senator Button, Senator Evans  and the Attorney-General have performed as true parliamentarians. Is it all a facade? Is it all a farce? Is the vote any different? I hope that  Senator Wheeldon  will not, after I say this, say 'Oh, death, where is thy kiss', but today he made a most courageous and fantastic speech. It was one with which I did not totally agree, but it was against the party line. Interjections were made: "This is not the party line'. He has not the right, as a democratically-elected senator, to say what he believes about Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. That is not the game in this place! He must follow the party line. I wonder what point there is in sitting till all hours of the morning, having all of this erudite debate, which no doubt  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans  will lead in the Committee stage. Will it do any good? For what it is worth, the Australian Democrats support the thrust of the Bill and will support the second reading. We are very strongly supportive of some of the comments that  Senator Evans  has made. I plead with the Attorney-General- if the Parliament still means a damn thing- to look at the objections that  Senator Evans  has made about the kind of offences that would attract life imprisonment. That sort of thing almost boggles the mind but one wonders, now that the 'lawmakers' have made their decision, whether we can do anything about it. 
The Bill gives new powers to the Federal Narcotics Burea- powers to institute electronic surveillance and to use listening devices. It provides power to recover pecuniary penalties for dealing in narcotic goods. We support all of these proposals. But I agree with  Senator Peter  Baume that this Bill will do very little, if anything, to prevent the human waste that is now being caused by heroin use in this country. 
Let me now say a word or two about the Federal Narcotics Bureau, and in particular the comments about it by  Senator Evans,  comments which I thought were unfounded, ungracious, illogical, unfair and would serve no good purpose. I am mindful of the fact that  Senator Evans  is a distinguished lawyer and a person who certainly does have regard for the value of true evidence. 
-We will have a look at that in a moment. In the years since I was Minister for Customs and Excise I may have been overfulsome in my praise of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. I have described it unashamedly as the most honest and efficient law-enforcement agency of its kind in the world. I have no reason, despite the smears that are being put about concerning it, to resile from that position tonight. I could not, and would not, say the same about the drug squads of certain State police forces. I am speaking purely of the law enforcement agency which  Senator Evans  attacked tonight. 
I remind the Senate- and he is a distinguished lawyer- that as I heard it over the amplifier in my office, he said: 'There is a great deal of corruption in the agency, naked and unadorned'. He held up a totally discredited book,  The Brown Tapes,  and other evidence. But what evidence can we really turn to? I think that is important because if we are to use this one avenue of fighting heroin use and yet have distinguished and respected senators such as  Senator Evans  undermining the public confidence in the Federal Narcotics Bureau we have already gone half-way towards losing the fight. 
What evidence of corruption do we have? Since the Bureau's formation in 1969 only one officer has been prosecuted. I refer to a creature named Brown who was sent to jail for 12 years. He was remorselessly followed and prosecuted, not by State police forces but by the Narcotics Bureau itself. It cleansed itself in the case of Brown. Since then, to my knowledge, only four officers have been suspected of being corrupt. Prosecutions were not levelled at or raised against them because of a lack of evidence. Because of internal pressure, the four officers have since resigned from the force. If  Senator Evans, Mr Delaney  or the discredited journalist who wrote  The Brown Tapes  has concrete evidence to produce about other Federal narcotics agents who are corrupt, let them produce it. Let them give it to  Senator Evans  so that he can disclose it under parliamentary privilege. If they are frightened, they can remain anonymous. For God's sake, if there are to be accusations against the law enforcement agency, let us have them on the table in a substantiated form. 
I was about to say something about that. The honourable senator has a knack of anticipating me. How can  Senator Evans,  who is a lawyer, rely on the Wilsons? The Wilsons were greatly respected people in the community! They were selling hundreds of thousands of dollars of heroin in Australia. They are great witnesses to hold up when condemning the Narcotics Bureau. Their statements have only to be seen to be scoffed at. They are on record as saying that for $25,000 one can buy a suspect alert list from a leak in the Narcotics Bureau. That is what  Senator Evans  was relying on when he made his allegations about the Narcotics Bureau. He was holding up as his prime witnesses two self-confessed heroin pedlars who are now dead. 
Let us look at this suspect alert list. Does  Senator Evans  know what it is? It is simply a list of people who are suspected of dealing in drugs and who come into and out of Australia from time to time. Does  Senator Evans  know about the circulation of that list? Between 200 and 300 copies of that list are circulated to immigration offices throughout the Commonwealth, Commonwealth Police, Customs offices throughout the Commonwealth and State police forces which ask for the list. The only accusation against the Narcotics Bureau is that the Wilsons said that the leak came from the Narcotics Bureau.  Senator Evans  holds that up, as a lawyer, to smear this agency. I do not often attack the arguments of  Senator Evans  in this place because normally they are impeccable, but because of my emotional attachment to the Narcotics Bureau and my admiration for it, I suppose, I tend to react rather savagely when unjust accusations are made against it. 
-No, I do not. The honourable senator has not been in politics for very long. He is expert in law, but he is not too expert yet in politics. When the honourable senator becomes a Minister- I hope that one day that honour will eventually fall upon him- he will know that Ministers must appoint a public inquiry if there is such a charge. An old saying that he has repeated time and again is that justice not only has to be done but also has to be seen to be done. The Minister had to appoint an inquiry because that smear against the Narcotics Bureau was leaked by people who were enemies of it. The Minister had absolutely no alternative. I mention that only in passing. I believe in the principles of the Bill regarding listening devices. During my term as Minister, I had narcotics agents coming to me quite often saying that the possibility of a prosecution succeeding was virtually impossible under our laws because they could not use listening devices. I put a proposition about that to Cabinet, I think in 1972, and it was refused. 
Let me turn now to the subject of penalties. 1 admired what  Senator Peter  Baume had to say about this matter. What is the Government trying to prove in increasing penalties?  Senator Peter  Baume asked several rhetorical questions about that. Are the penalties imposed as revenge, retribution or a deterrent? What is the reason? I do not believe it is any of those reasons. I believe that it is a political exercise to try to show the Australian people that we hate heroin pedlars and therefore we will increase penalties to show that we mean business. I am all for increasing penalties. Other than the ultimate penalty, no penalty is high enough to me. I am just asking what is the use of increasing penalties. What good purpose will increased penalties serve? The maximum penalty is now life imprisonment in certain cases. I agree with the remarks of  Senator Evans  when he attacked these penalties. He called them absurd. They are absurd. When  Senator Puplick  spoke last week he said that legislation must be seen to be a deterrent and that penalties are just not the answer.  Senator Puplick  does not seem to realise that the profits in heroin trading in Australia today are estimated to run between $125m and $200m a year. What is a $ 100,000 penalty going to mean to a person like that? The pickings are so lush that unscrupulous persons will take virtually any risk. The size of the profits is now such, as, I think,  Senator Lewis  mentioned in the last session of Parliament, that virtually nobody in this country is safe from an approach for a bribe. No politician, magistrate, judge, policeman or narcotics agent is safe from an approach for a bribe of almost astronomic proportions. If the syndicates and the business people running heroin are making $200m a year profit, a bribe of $500,000 to a magistrate or a policeman is petty cash. I think that we ought to get the whole thing into perspective. 

 Senator Peter Baume said something about the Narcotics Bureau that bothered me. He said that if the Bureau cannot stop the heroin coming into this country we should ask it why it cannot. In 1971 or1972 the Government very graciously allowed me to go round the world studying this very problem. I went to about six or seven countries. I spoke to the narcotics agencies in each of those countries. The spooky thing about that exercise was that whenever I asked them what percentage of drugs or heroin they estimated they could prevent from coming into the country the maximum figure given to me was 1 5 per cent and the average figure was 10 per cent. It does not matter whether a country has the most efficient narcotics agency in the world, whether it has tens of thousands of agents, whether it uses listening devices or electronic surveillance devices, or whether the penalty is death by a firing squad as the percentage does not vary. Between 85 per cent and 90 per cent of the heroin being smuggled into Australia has got through and will continue to get through. 
I am not suggesting that the honourable senator was making a reflection on the Bureau. I was thinking that he was following the fond hope of some newspapers that by jazzing up the Narcotics Bureau we will cure the drug problem. If I was in a Senate in which one could filibuster for hours, I could detail something like 2,000 ways of smuggling sizable quantities of heroin into this country, make a fortune and not be detected. The mind boggles at the ingenuity of the heroin smuggler. Consider the case of canned fruit coming in from some foreign port. There could be 1,000 cases of that canned fruit. In each case there could be 100 tins. One of those tins, instead of being full of canned fruit, could by arrangement be stacked full of 95 per cent pure heroin worth God knows what on the open market. How, in the name of fortune, could any narcotics agent detect that? It would require an army to open 1,000 cases containing 100 tins each. It is one of 2,000 ways in which heroin can be smuggled in. Let us stop kidding ourselves that increased penalties, increased surveillance for the Narcotics Bureau and so on- all of which I support- will even begin to scratch at the problem. 
I have heard almost all of this debate but one thing has not been mentioned. What worries me about increased penalties is that the same development might occur here as occurred in the United States: When heavy penalties are imposed, the age of the pusher becomes progressively lower. It is then profitable or expedient for the syndicates to use 13 -year-old or 14-year- old children to be couriers in this infamous business. I think that is something against which we ought to guard. Higher deterrents and penalties mean more corruption and a higher price of drugs. 
I support  Senator Baume  in what he said about judges. I have been engaged in angry public debate with several judges. If the Parliament of the nation or the State fixes a maximum penalty of 20 years gaol for an offence in relation to which there are absolutely no extenuating circumstances, what right has a judge to say that he will impose a penalty of 12 years or less. I am not talking about user pushers. They are in a totally different category. I am talking about the creature who sees fantastic profits to be made in heroin pushing and who gets caught. For such an offence the Parliament has set a penalty 20 years gaol but a judge says: 'All right, you are guilty and I will give you 1 2 years or 1 5 years '. 
I know that judges are very touchy about contempt of court. I have heard of a judge putting himself into a situation where, if some poor devil of a workman is drilling the road outside his court, he will send a policeman out to tell the workman to stop the drilling because it is interfering with the processes of the court and that if the workman does not stop he will be charged with contempt of court. That is how precious judges regard themselves. I remind some of those judges that, in fact, they are in contempt of Parliament, which is an even higher offence, if they ignore the wishes of democratically elected people. Sometimes I wonder, as does  Senator Baume,  about the time honourable senators are wasting debating penalties when they know that some weak-gutted judge for some reason that is peculiar to himself will ignore them. The only way in which I would support increased penalties is if the maximum penalty fixed by this Parliament is increased. The the sentences proportionately can be increased by judges. 
In conclusion, I, like  Senator Baume,  ask the Senate to look at goals. Our tackling of the problem of drug addiction in this country is ad hoc; it is full of hypocrisy. As  Senator Baume  often reminds honourable senators, the two killer drugs known to the human race are alcohol and tobacco. We know that the abuse of alcohol is currently responsible for filling approximately 40 per cent to 50 per cent of beds in public hospitals. From memory, the World Health Organisation now rates alcohol as the third largest killer of the human race. Honourable senators know what ravages tobacco makes on the human body. To its eternal credit, the Federal Liberal-National Country Party Government has banned electronic advertising of tobacco. That is a step in the right direction. What sort of view will be presented to young kinds who smoke pot or hashish or who sniff cocaine if we, as a Parliament, still allow alcohol to be advertised on the electronic media, and when we do worse than that by allowing the massive amounts of money spent on advertising- not on the electronic media- by tobacco and alcohol companies still to be a deductible expense against taxation. Is that a sincere approach? Is that not smacking of hypocrisy, if we are sincere about a drug problem? Of course, vested interests would be too strong - 
-I thank the honourable senator. I am supporting  Senator Baume  in his view that we ought to have some national goals on the drug problem. I believe that we will never come to those unless we have an all-party consensus. I believe that there ought to be a consensus of this Parliament that advertising of known killer drugs should not be a deductible expense, and that we ought to have an all-party discussion on whether cannabis in some form or other inevitably leads to heroin addiction. If we can persuade ourselves on that, we ought to come to a view that we should do something about cannabis. We ought to wonder why the taxation instrument cannot be used more ruthlessly and remorselessly than it is at the moment. Is it being used? I know that this will shock people, but it was done in the United States. That method was used during the 1920s and 1930s to catch the worst criminals in the United States, the most notorious of whom was Al Capone, who committed the most heinous crimes against society for a decade. He could not be apprehended, except on a tax charge. He was then put away. I wonder whether we are using that instrument? 
On the question of bipartisanship, I will now stick out my neck for  Senator Button.  I believe that the Parliament ought to look at the question of legalising heroin. I know that there are political enemies of mine who will spread it around that Chipp wants to legalise heroin and who will make some cheap political points on it. I went to Holland and the United Kingdom specially to study this problem. I know that it has not worked there with great success but there have been some breakthroughs. I am not suggesting that heroin should be legalised for anyone to buy. What I am suggesting is that if there is a person who can be diagnosed by a qualified medical practitioner to be a heroin addict, why cannot that medical practitioner prescribe heroin in diminishing doses? 
It must be too late in the night for either me or  Senator McAuliffe.  I thought I made it perfectly clear that it would involve heroin being prescribed, in diminishing doses for addicts only. This was experimented with in the United Kingdom and in Holland with varying degrees of success. I am not suggesting that it would solve the problem and I am not suggesting that we should implement it. I am saying that we should look at it as an all-party group. It would diminish the amount of heroin sold to certain people on the streets. It would eliminate for certain people the dirty dose or the overdose, and it would at least give us a fighting chance of curing the addict. I know that the greater proportion of heroin addicts would not even seek medical treatment; they would prefer the bang that it gives them to buy it on the streets. At least some young Australians could go in and, under medical supervision, have their physiological addiction gradually reduced to such a stage that at least there would  be  a fighting chance of curing them physiologically of their habit. 
It reduces crime rates markedly. It is a problem fraught with difficulties. If we are to leave a problem like that in the political arena where people score points ofT each other, as two or three senators did by way of muffled interjection to me then, where the hell will we get? It is a problem that is increasing massively. We ought to be spending not hundreds of thousands of dollars but millions of dollars on drug education. I want now to be critical of our educators. I think that I have read almost everything that has been written and brought to my notice in recent years about what should be the proper way to educate people about drugs. One of the things that is clear to me is that the use of fear in advertising does not work. I am not an expert in the vagaries of the human mind, but it seems that if one tries to scare people not to do something, the perversity of the human mind will urge them to do it. We had some experience of this with those bloody advertisements on road safety. The people who saw those bloody, gory and emaciated bodies on the road after a crash seemed to become more reckless. 
I had an experience with this sort of thing when I was Minister for the Navy. I shall not mention the ships concerned. During the Vietnam involvement one ship in particular seemed to be coming back from Vietnam with more than a reasonable incidence of a certain social disease amongst its complement. The Americans told us that they had produced a film and that if we showed this film to the sailors there was no way they would ever again go into a bar in Saigon and that this would fix them. I saw the film- God help me- and I have never been the same since. It was the most horrific, frightening and terrifying film that I have ever seen. The sheer logic of it would impel a logical human being never to take risks in that direction. We showed that film on two or three occasions to the sailors going to Vietnam. The end result was that the ship returned from Vietnam with the highest rate of venereal disease among its complement of any ship that ever went there. 
I do not know what the reason was. Quite often amateurs involve themselves in drug and alcohol education. I do not know the proper philosophy that we ought to follow if we are going to spend millions of dollars, but I do know that we parents make an arbitrary judgment that at a certain time in their lives our children are ready to learn about sex, about alcohol, about drugs, about road safety or whatever. Then we say to them: 'It is naughty to do this or that'. For years I have been pleading for a health education program to be introduced into the schools in the State education system to teach young children from an early age about their bodies, their minds and their souls and about these facts of life. As soon as somebody suggests that, some troglodyte such as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  says: 'You are not going to abuse the little darlings' minds about sex at the age of four or five years of age'. The debate is taken up my maniacs from the League of Rights and from the Festival of Light and the children are kept in blissful ignorance until they reach the age of puberty when we adults say to them: 'There is this horrible drug problem out there'. The parents tell them lies such as 'If you smoke pot you will inevitably go on to heroin'. Once the children find us out in the first lie they never believe us again. The same happens with other health education problems. Surely children should have the respect of being taught the truth in the beginning and not at an age when they know it already. We pose as dirty old men and dirty old women telling them things that are dirty, sneaky and smutty, whereas they are facts of life. 
In conclusion I say that we will support the general thrust of the Bill. We will support strongly some of the Opposition's amendments. But all of this debate and all of this Bill will be perfectly useless unless we can get an all-party and non-political approach without point scoring for the national drug problem which is now reaching terrifying proportions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government: (a) yet considered the Industries Assistance Commission's draft report on the textile, clothing and footwear industries; and (b) any estimate of the increase in unemployment, which would result from the implementation of the Commission 's proposals. 
What effect will the draft report have on the confidence and stability of the industries concerned, and on their long-term planning and investment. 
I get rather uneasy when the Senate is swamped by legal erudition. Therefore, I propose to introduce some lay ignorance into the debate. 
Nothing. I raised this matter yesterday and expressed to you,  Mr President,  some grave doubts about the propriety of the course that  Senator Carrick  intended to take. Let me say at the outset that I totally disregard the reasons given today by  Senator Carrick,  as I heard them, as to why he will not seek leave to incorporate these documents in  Hansard  now. I thoroughly accept the arguments put forward by 

 Senator Wriedt today when he dismissed  Senator Carrick  's arguments on a legal basis. 
I am sorry, I must have made myself misunderstood. I accepted the legal arguments of  Senator Wriedt  today when he debated the points raised by  Senator Carrick  and dismissed them as not being viable or applicable to this debate. That is what I said. I am sorry if I gave any other impression. Notwithstanding that, the Australian Democrats will vote with the Government on this matter for the very reasons espoused by  Senator Rae  and which I stated yesterday. We are being asked to incorporate photostat copies of printed documents with no heading or name at the top and without a signature at the bottom or a date. They are scrappy photostat copies of a typewritten piece purporting to be a translation of the original document. If the Opposition wants to move this same motion in a week or two weeks when a qualified translation of those documents has been made and when they have been attested that that is a true translation, then there would be a case for the documents to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
I say at the outset that if statements were made by a citizen similar to those purported to have been made by a certain leading citizen, we would denounce those with vigour, with every member of this chamber, and have them exposed. Let us assume the hypothetical case that an article appears in a foreign language newspaper in Australia; it is written in a foreign language and purports to have been written by a prominent citizen, or even by an honourable senator or member of Parliament. Let us assume that that article states some outrageous propositions on racism, revolution by force or some other dreadful thing. Further, let us assume that somebody produces an unsigned, unattested document purporting to be a translation of that article. We would not know the prominent person, senator or member of Parliament who wrote it in the first place and we would not know whether the translation was in any way accurate. 
Yes, or even the original report, and then let us assume that an honourable senator moved that that be incorporated in  Hansard,  even with all the provisions and qualifications attaching to it. I plead with the Labor Party on this matter. It is a serious question and I support the Opposition's motives. I suggest that it wait until there is a proper translation so that no damage is done. Entirely disregarding the legalities of the matter and just looking at the future, I point out that if this resolution is passed today it is open season for anybody who wants to send up anyone in this country. Therefore, the Australian Democrats oppose the motion. 
Motion (by  Senator Peter  Baume) put: 
That the question be now put. 
This is one of the most cynical political exercises I have experienced in my 17 years in the Parliament. When I read the reference on the Notice Paper to  Senator Young's  motion, I was under the illusion that we would talk about the moral obligations of Australia. What we have done has been to engage, in the debate on that motion, in a most petty exercise in an attempt to win a few cheap votes. The most serious issue facing the human race is under debate. This debate has been about the development of Roxby Downs. It has not been about uranium per se or moral obligations. I support the remarks on this subject of other speakers on this side of the House. The Australian Democrats will not have a bar of stockpiling uranium at Roxby Downs. 
As I think  Senator Cavanagh  just said, ore can be processed in such a way as to extract copper without extracting uranium. That has been done for many many years in Chile. I suggest to  Senator Young  that he look at the Chilean experience. Roxby Downs could go ahead producing copper but not uranium but if the uranium were extracted and stockpiled the pressure to sell it overseas, both economically and politically, would be irresistable. Stockpiling is the thin end of the wedge for exporting and, as such, we totally oppose it. 
I return to the matter of moral obligations, which  Senator Young  mentioned in his motion but did not seem to address his speech to. I remind honourable senators of what was said by a very distinguished former South Australian,  Sir Mark  Oliphant, who to my knowledge has not yet been accused of being a communist. As far as I am concerned he is one of the greatest Australians of all time. Not too long ago he said that there is only a 50 per cent chance of mankind reaching the end of this century because of the risk of a nuclear holocaust occurring. I would have thought that that question was a component of moral obligation. We have a moral obligation to consider future generations whenever we are taking decisions that could destroy the planet and everything that lives on it. Another famous Australian to comment on this matter- I am not conscious of his having been accused by the Liberal Party of Australia of being a communist- is Professor  Sir Frank  Macfarlane Burnet. He pointed out the grave risks of using radioactive substances for nuclear energy and advocated the use of alternative safer resources. 
I mention another person who pointed to the moral obligations. He is a man whose mind I respect as much as that of any person now living. I refer to Arthur Koestler. Again, I do not think that he has been accused of being a communist. He wrote probably the most devastating expose of communism that has ever been written in his classic book entitled  Darkness at Noon.  He stated that, because man's emotional development has not matched his technological progress, man's self-induced extinction on this planet now becomes almost a statistical certainty. If we are talking about moral obligations of Australians, I would have thought that I, as a person living today, have a moral obligation to the children and grandchildren who will follow all of us in this nation to consider them before putting the planet at risk. What sort of emotions was Koestler talking about when he said that our technological progress has outmatched the ability of our emotions to cope with them? He was talking about greed, money, hate and power. I would have thought that those emotions were relevant when talking about moral obligations. 
Let us look at some examples of what uranium has done to change people's emotions in those areas. Let me take the Philippines as an example. It is probably the most corrupt nation in the south-west Pacific and we are selling our uranium to it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  tells us that we can trust  President  Marcos and the Philippines Government. They can be trusted on one thing, that is, to win elections. They have a rather cute way of ensuring a win at a democratic election: They lock up all their political opponents during the election campaign. On 3 May 1979,  Senator Mason  directed a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  about the reactor in the Philippines being sited in a notoriously active earthquake zone close to five active volcanos.  Senator Mason  spoke of concrete of inadequate strength being used in its construction and asked  Senator Carrick  whether he could advise him on the matter.  Senator Carrick  gave an official answer for the Minister responsible for the issue. I wonder where  Senator Young's  sense of moral obligation fits in with that answer. It is our uranium which is going to the Philippines. Where is  Senator Young's  moral obligation to the men, women and children of the Philippines who live in the shadow of that reactor which has been built near a volcano in a geophysical site? The Minister concluded his answer by saying: 
It seems reasonable to assume that in these cases it has proved possible to meet the concerns of the local authorities, which are responsible for safety and environmental requirements. 
Talking about morality, that simply means that we in Australia do not give a damn what the Philippines do with our uranium or where it builds its reactors or what the consequences are for the people of the Philippines; that is their responsibility, not ours. Yet the motion refers to moral obligations. 
I turn to the situation in Pakistan. It is about to explode the Islamic bomb. Pakistan's closest ally is one of the most insidious maniacs in the world, Colonel Gaddafi, who outdistances even the Ayatollah Khomeini for sheer lunacy and an obsession about cutting off hands and killing people at firing squads. Yet we are putting a bomb made from our uranium into that source. Pakistan acquired every bit of its uranium through peaceful agreements. Yet we talk about moral obligations. I thought that this Government had a distinct distrust and dislike for the Soviet Union. 
We have heard statements to that effect in the past. Yet the first or second nuclear agreement we signed for the sale of our uranium was with Finland, which is openly sending its material, our uranium, to the Soviet Union. To do what? Is the purpose to fuel reactors for peaceful purposes? 
I believe, the Democrats believe, that going to nuclear power and exporting our uranium is the ultimate insanity. Uranium will provide only some 1 5 per cent of the world 's energy needs for 30 years; it will leave a legacy for future generations for 500,000 years, a time span my finite mind cannot embrace. Yet we do nothing about seeking alternative sources. If  Senator Young  had moved a motion today to the effect that Australia had a moral obligation to future generations not to go after the ultimate insanity in uranium but to seek alternative fuels for the energy crisis which will hit our young in the mid-1980s, I would have thought it would serve the Senate better. 
Motion (by  Senator Knight)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 5.S7 to  8  p.m. 
By way of preface to my question to the Leader of the Government I say that this morning I received an angry letter from a Queensland age pensioner enclosing a letter from  Senator Maunsell.  I have paid  Senator Maunsell  the courtesy of saying that I would be quoting from his letter. I want to query two points. Inter alia,  Senator Maunsell,  in relation to a motion relating to the reindexing of pensions- he was referring to a private member's Bill- stated: 
The motion by  Senator Chipp  will not be debated. 
That is the first point. In regard to the second point, I again quote from his letter. He wrote: 
As 1 understand the situation, a return to twice-yearly indexation will be included in the Budget to be brought down on 2 1 st August. 
The letter is dated 27 July 1979. My question to the Leader of the Government is in two parts. Did he, or any other member of the Government, with his knowledge, tell  Senator Maunsell  that my private member's Bill would never be debated in the Senate? Did the Leader of the Government or any other member of the Government tell  Senator Maunsell  on or before 27 July that twice-yearly pension indexation would be included in the Budget on 2 1 August? 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) If the answer to part ( 1 ) of Question 1042, notice of which was given on 16 November 1978, is yes, will the Government ensure that the 30% quota is applied on an hourly basis throughout transmission time, to avoid Australian music being concentrated in off-peak periods. 
Will the Government introduce a tariff on imported master records. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs on 22 August 1979: 
What progress has been made in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands towards providing the inhabitants with the rights and responsibilities of Australian citizenship, in particular as regards wage rates, health, education and welfare. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and which is in two parts, also refers to Kampuchea. Upon whose advice or on what basis of logic or morality did the Government act in instructing its representative in the United Nations to continue to recognise the most murderous regime of modern times- the Pol Pot regime? 
I would like to know who said that. Will the Leader of the Government give an undertaking that this incredible attitude over Kampuchea will not in any way delay the airlifting of substantial quantities of aid, of the magnitude of 700 tonnes of food a week which was flown into Cambodia by the United States at the height of the Vietnam war? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 30 August 1979. 
1 ) Does the summary manner in which criticism is dismissed by the final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on the Jabiluka Uranium project recently issued by Pancontinental Mining, comply with the spirit and intention of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. particularly in view of the fact that criticism by the Friends of the Earth was based on months of research: and consultation with Professor Kerr of the Ranger Inquiry. 
What action is proposed concerning the unsatisfactory and frequently contradictory replies which this document makes to public submissions. 
ls consideration being given to the rejection of the final EIS and to repetition of the whole process in the light of the fundamental difference between the project as presented in the final EIS and the project as proposed in the draft EIS and in the light of the unsatisfactory nature of the final EIS. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 August, 1979: 
1 ) ls there any evidence of increasing popularity of motorcycles for private transport, due to higher petrol prices. 
What has been the total Federal Government spending during each year since 1974-75 on: (a) road safety in general: and (b) motorcycling safety. 
ls the Office of Road Safety the principal advisory body to the Minister on road safety: if no, which other body has this responsibility. 
How much has the Office of Road Safety spent on motorcycle rider education since its inception. 
5 ) Has the Office of Road Safety underspent its budget in any year: if so, why. 
I present the following petition from 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 32 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That although artistically the Red Army Choir may be a great choir, it is nonetheless a propaganda unit of the Red Army, the army which is the instrument of the Communist dictatorship, bent on world domination along with the destruction of the Christian faith. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that entry into Australia shall be denied to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I am very pleased to be able to join in this discussion. I thank the Australian Labor Party for giving me the opportunity to speak in it as I returned only last week from the region which we are discussing. I am pleased to enter the discussion also as we have already heard what I believe are four excellent speeches from the first four participants. 
The Australian Democrats will support the motion put forward by  Senator Wriedt  in this matter, but we will support it with some reluctance. The reluctance does not stem from our belief that we do not agree with the contents of the motion because we do. Our reluctance to vote for this motion arises as we believe that if any matter ever coming before the Senate needed a nonpartisan or a bipartisan approach, it would have been this very question that we are discussing today. The two components in  Senator Wriedt  's motion have been totally opposed by the two Liberal speakers who have already spoken. The Australian Democrats would argue against that. 
We hope that the Government will receive the criticisms that are being made of it today from this side of the House in an objective way- I congratulate the Labor Party on this because our proceedings are being broadcast- for at least the national Parliament is bringing to the attention of the Australian people the plight of millions of humanbeings about whom in Australia at the moment sickening apathy is being held. If this discussion does nothing more today than awaken the conscience of Australian people listening, who will lobby their members of Parliament and their senators to take more urgent and realistic action about the suffering people of Indo China, it will have succeeded. I believe that this discussion, particularly the remarks from this side of the House, will strengthen the hand of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in Cabinet and also with his Department. Although I have high respect for many of the officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs, their highhandedness and their self-persuasion that they and only they know what is good for an area or what should be Government policy sometimes frightens me. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cabinet ought to listen more and more to Parliament and the reflection of what the people are thinking through members of Parliament rather than the so called experts in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I will remind the Minister of some of the catastrophic advice that has been given to governments in the past from the Foreign Service. I mention the disgraceful episode and the advice given- some of it was published- regarding Timor; the disgraceful advice contained in a leaked telegram from one of our Asian posts this week, which  Senator O  'Byrne disclosed to the Parliament; and the way in which our ambassadors and the Foreign Service go along with the corrupt Asian states and say that we cannot do anything about it. To me, this sort of thing has to stop. The Ministry and the Parliament have to assert themselves more. 
This motion has two parts. The first is that we criticise the Government for not adopting an evenhanded approach to the Kampuchean problem by its continued support for the Pol Pot regime. A lot of semantics have been used in the argument about this word 'support'. The fact is that our ambassador was instructed to vote for the retention of the Pol Pot regime to represent Cambodia. Let us not quibble about words. 

 -Does Senator Knight challenge that assertion? 
I have not said anything of the kind. I am saying: 'Let us not quibble about words'. The fact is that at the weekend the Foreign Minister and the Cabinet which  Senator Knight  supports instructed our ambassador to vote for the continuance of the Pol Pot regime to represent Kampuchea. I hasten to add that I will not score a political point off  Senator Knight  by saying that he supports the actions of the Pol Pot regime, but the very fact that he has supported the decision to vote that way means that he supported the continuation of the Pol Pot regime. I say that that is reprehensible not for the reasons that he is imputing to me but because we do not embrace the realities of the area. We could have abstained. I am not suggesting that we should have recognised the other regime. That would have been equally silly and equally reprehensible. But the fact that we have recognised this monstrous regime immediately alienates Vietnam, the whole key to the problem. 

 Senator Martin is interjecting and making a smart-Alick remark as sometimes she is tempted to do. I listened to her speech very carefully to try to find whether she could tell us a solution to this enormous problem to humanity. The key to it is Vietnam. As much as we might dislike Vietnam and criticise its actions and its political philosophy, the key is Vietnam's allowing the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, the Red Cross and other aid agencies into Kampuchea. That is where the key is. There is no other way, as far as 1 can see. As much as I would favour a solution being brought about by Prince Sihanouk being allowed to go back and lead a neutral government- 1 put that aside as being unlikely- 1 cannot see Vietnamese troops withdrawing in the immediate future and allowing free access by agencies. The key is Vietnam. As much as we dislike it- as much as I dislike it- the second key is the Soviets. The sheer recognition of the Pol Pot regime will immediately alienate the Soviets.  Senator Sim  talked about the realities of foreign policies. I am suggesting that nothing 1 have heard from the opposite side of the chamber today has given us any clue to a solution to the problem of how to save starving human beings from dying in the next month or two. 
Let me briefly give some history of Cambodia.  Senator Wriedt  did this previously. In 1975, seven million people lived there. Today four million people are left. Only 20 per cent of the adult population are males. There are hundreds of thousands of orphans. In 1975 there were 500 doctors. Today there are 40 doctors. In Kampuchea today there is only one birth for every 10 deaths. Now two million people- half the existing population- are threatened by starvation over the next six months. Only 5 per cent of the arable rice land is presently planted. That is the sort of situation that we are talking about. I suggest to Government senators that they take the advice of their Foreign Minister, whom I commend with all the strength I have for what he said this morning on the radio program  AM.  He said:   . . unless people are prepared to not allow politics to stand in the way and get medical supplies in, then the suffering will bc immeasurable. 
We have to examine every conceivable wayputting politics aside- to get aid in. Recently the Vietnamese forces refused to allow UNICEF to take a prefabricated hospital into Kampuchea. That is a reprehensible act. But are we going to change the minds of the Vietnamese by abusing them in this place or by saying: 'No, we must not do anything to alienate China and, therefore, we must continue to recognise the Pol Pot regime'? Do we say that we must never do anything to offend the United States of America because it wants us to recognise the Pol Pot regime? We cannot have it two ways. We cannot pursue an impossible and unrewarding course, as I believe this Government is doing in recognising the Pol Pot regime, and expect the keys to the solution of this problem- Vietnam and Russia- to change their views. 
Historically, what is Kampuchea? The Khmers were being replaced by the Thais and the Viets over a period of years. French colonisation prevented their total absorption and although the Cambodian Communist Party and the Vietnamese Communist Party fought common enemies over a period of years, there was always antipathy between the two. Sihanouk was the neutral. But the Americans, supported again by us, placed in control of Cambodia during that time a monster of a man called Lon Nol, one of the great heroin pedlars of the Golden Triangle. During that time the United States flew into Kampuchea- then known as Cambodia- 700 tons of rice a week plus probably twice the amount of bombs. It is a criticism of the insanity of the human race that we could fly in 700 tons of food and double that amount of weapons in war time and yet say that it cannot be done and do not take the necessary steps when two million people are faced with starvation. We are doing exactly what the Foreign Minister asked us not to do. We are introducing politics into the question. 
The Khmer Rouge or the Pol Pot regime killed between two million and three million people in the years between 1975 and 1979.  Senator Martin  and  Senator Knight  need not accept my assertion that by recognising the Pol Pot regime we are alienating people who could force a solution. I imagine that they would concede that Prince Sihanouk is something of an expert on his own country. In an interview which  Senator John  Wheeldon obtained from him recently he said: 
I believe, however, that it is not possible for me to achieve anything for as long as the non-aligned countries and all of the Western countries, except the United States, France, Canada and West Germany, continue to recognise the Pol Pot Government and the Cambodian seat in the United Nations is occupied by a Pol Pot representative. 
That is from a person who probably loves his country and who is most knowledgeable about his country and from whom we can now get some form of objective statement. That is why I agree with what the Labor Party has put forward this afternoon. While we continue to recognise the Pol Pot regime it is not possible to have any form of solution in Kampuchea and Cambodia. I conclude by repeating what the Foreign Minister said this morning. Again let us give credit where it is due. 
I shall now speak briefly about the second prong of the Opposition's matter of urgency. I agree to a large extent with what  Senator Mcintosh  said. We could have acted earlier, although maybe not much earlier. I have great confidence in and admiration for Australia's Foreign Minister. It pleased me very much to hear him say on  AM  this morning:  1 was very concerned because it had been put to me this morning that UN personnel's visas ran out tomorrow and they had not been renewed by the regime in Phnom Penh so I asked the Vietnamese to try and rectify that situation and they gave me the undertaking that they would. 
What are we talking about? The Foreign Minister- thank God- was able to do something, but he said that he learnt this morning that the visas of the United Nations personnel will run out tomorrow. Why did somebody not tell him before today that they will run out tomorrow? Why did not somebody tell somebody else that representations could have been made to the Vietnamese, not necessarily by us but by other people who have good offices there? 
I conclude with a plea that we adopt the words of the Foreign Minister and not allow politics to stand in the way. Politics will stand in the way if we as a nation continue to follow blindly what the United States says we must do, if we follow blindly what China says we must do, or if we adopt the attitude that we must not offend China because we want to sell our wheat to China, and so on. That is where politics can enter into this matter and stop a solution and allow millions of human beings to die. 
I want to say something briefly about this sickening business. I agree essentially with what  Senator Carrick  has said. On the other hand I agree that answers to the questions  Senator Walsh  asked  Senator Carrick  ought to be forthcoming from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Ian Sinclair is a man whom I have claimed to be a personal and close friend over many years. I think we ought to spare a thought for the agony that that man is going through now. I for one would think myself less than a man and less than decent if I did not stand here today and say that the friendship and affection I have for that man still prevail. 
I think the one thing that this man, a man who has given so much service to the nation, is entitled to is to be put out of his agony. I am not attributing to the New Wouth Wales Government motives as  Senator Carrick  did. Out of all decency I believe, when a report like the one that was delivered yesterday by the New South Wales Government and which contained probably the gravest charges that have ever been laid against a member of this Parliament, let alone a Minister, the New South Wales Government ought to put the man out of his agony and do one of two things: It should press charges or state that it is not going to press charges. If it pressed charges at least Ian Sinclair would be given a fighting chance to prove the accuracy or otherwise of the charges laid against him. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
1 ) The desirability of amending the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942 to remove the existing ban on the broadcasting or televising of election matter after the Wednesday preceding an election day. 
The desirability of amending the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1 9 1 8 to provide for 
Public funding of electoral campaigns; 
realistic limitation of electoral expenses; 
displaying of'how to vote' cards in voting cubicles at polling booths; 
) the inclusion on ballot papers of the party designation of candidates; and 
the application of the same standards of truthfulness and accuracy to political advertisements as apply to commercial advertising. 
Has the Attorney-General 's attention been drawn to several books written recently which allege corruption in Australia? In particular I refer to books written by a most courageous experienced journalist, Bob Bottom, and a former senior officer of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics, Bernard Delaney, which allege that organised crime has now reached near catastrophic proportions in Australia similar to that prevailing in the United States and that profits to the syndicates each year are running into hundreds of millions of dollars. Is he further aware that it is alleged in those books that the syndicates are supported by massive corruption in police forces extending in some States to a political level? In view of this, is he disturbed by a recent statement made by  Sir Colin  Woods, the new head of the Australian Federal Police, that there was unnecessary overlapping of work done by the State and Commonwealth Police and government departments and that there was jealousy and rivalry among them? In view of the serious situation, will the Attorney-General arrange an urgent conference of relevant Commonwealth and State Ministers who head law enforcement agencies to see whether these problems can be resolved? 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people. 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Lead Concentrates in Motor Spirit 
I move: 
That the following matters be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
1 ) The desirability of amending the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to remove the existing ban on the broadcasting or televising of election matter after the Wednesday preceding an election day. 
The desirability of amending the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1 9 1 8 to provide for- 
public funding of electoral campaigns; 
b ) realistic limitation of electoral expenses: 
displaying of 'how to vote' cards in voting cubicles at polling booths; 
the inclusion on ballot papers of the party designation of candidates; and 
the application of the same standards of truthfulness and accuracy to political advertisements as apply to commercial advertising. 
I speak firstly to the question of amending the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to remove this absurd ban that is now an anachronism on the broadcasting or televising of election matter after midnight on the Wednesday preceding an election day. I submit that this provision is outmoded. It has outlived its use, if ever it had a use. The reason why it is allowed to persist by successive governments, I believe, is a classic example of the national inertia that is now pervading this country. It provides an unanswerable case for sunset provisions to be considered in future legislation. One argument that could be advanced for the proposition for its retention- no doubt the argument was put forward when it was first introduced into legislation- is that one wealthy party could spend a fortune up to midnight on the Friday night before an election and swamp all other less affluent parties. The contradiction of this and the absurdity of it is that a wealthy party can now do just that through newspapers and the print media. In fact, there have been examples of that. A party with a great deal of money can and does do that through newspapers at the very last minute on the Friday night or on the Saturday morning of an election which then renders a smaller party, or a less wealthy party, totally incapable of responding to that advertisement. 
I believe that we should exclude that. I am coming to that; it is part of my motion. There was a classic case in the recent South Australian elections where the South Australian Liberal Party did what I believe was a most reprehensible and dishonest act. A large series of advertisements were lodged on the Friday and, I think, on the Saturday. I am not sure of that. They were authorised by a person called D. Willett for the Liberal Party of South Australia. The advertisements read: 'Make your legislative council vote count'. That was the heading. The subject of the advertisement was: 
Your vote for any party other than the Liberal or Labor Party may not be counted. The peculiar system of voting for the South Australian Legislative Council means that votes cast for any group other than the major parties may result in preferences not being distributed. 
To put it at its very least, that is misleading. To put it at its worst, it is a lie. It is a deliberate attempt to mislead the people who read the newspapers. The fact that it was a lie was proven because the votes for a candidate for the Australian Democrats- a minority party- were counted and he was elected. 
This sort of thing is now permitted under our electoral legislation. There was no way that we could go on radio and television on the Friday night to point out the untruthfulness of that advertisement, nor was there any way that we could counter it at the last moment. To that extent, I do believe that: it is quite wrong and ought to be removed. The second reason the motion was introduced was to overcome a wealthy party swamping a less wealthy party. That is why I have put in my motion that the Committee ought to consider amending the Act to put a limitation on the amount of expenses that can be spent by any political party or individual in an election campaign. The third reason for this absurdity is that a political party can still swamp a television station or a radio station on the Wednesday before an election with an incredible amount of money. So even the original justification for the insertion of this provision in the Broadcasting and Television Act seems to fall to the ground. 
We also have a ridiculous situation that can and has occurred where there is, say, an obscure by-election in a State. Perhaps it is in an area which is way out in the country and where no city issues are affected; it is a by-election for a State 
Parliament. If a Federal election happened to be taking place at that dme and if perchance a leader of a political party wanted to make his policy speech on a Thursday night and if the State by-election was on a Saturday, it could well result in a situation where that policy speech would have to be postponed in that State. That seems to me to be an unjustifiable limitation on free speech. I now refer back to the advertisement of the Liberal Party of South Australia. This is something that probably makes me more angry than anything else on this matter about which I am speaking today. That is the untruthfulness of advertising that political parties or politicians are allowed to place. 
It would seem that if one manufactures and sells a secondhand motor car, a refrigerator or toilet soap, one is inhibited by the Trade Practices Act on what one can or cannot say in that advertising. For example, if one is advertising and selling toilet soap and makes a misleading or a false representation on what that soap can do for a person, then one is open to a very heavy penalty of up to a $50,000 fine. Political parties and politicians are exempt from that. The situation which prevails in Australia today is that if one misleads in advertising toilet soap then one can be heavily fined and perhaps gaoled. But if one tries to aspire for the highest office in the land, namely a seat in a Parliament, then one is exempt. It is open for a politician to tell as many lies and to make as many misleading statements about his opponents or about his own performance that he can. That is a situation that must be corrected. I was appalled at the answer to a question on notice which was given to me by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  when I asked him whether he would give consideration to amending this situation. This was his reply: 
Assessment of the content of political advertising along the lines suggested appears essentially to be a matter for subjective judgment of the electorate- a judgment along with other relevant factors is obviously taken into account at the polling booths. 
The Minister is saying that if a political party has unlimited funds or is supported by an incredibly wealthy individual it can hire the best public relations people or the best advertising agency in the business to dolly up its lies and misleading statements as best it can. He is saying that if one can fool a voter- namely, get over his subjective judgment- that is fair. 
Exactly. I regard the answer to my question as utter hypocrisy. In the area of political advertising we know that facts can be distorted, allegations can be made against individuals and political parties at the last moment and there is no restriction on that. There is no redress available to the offended party. On the question of public funding I ask: Is it democracy that a party with the most money- to put it at the least, the most affluent- has an advantage over all other parties? Is it in the spirit of democracy that if a party has millions it can then flood the media with that money? Is it in the spirit of democracy that that party therefore has an advantage over other political parties? 
That is another question. I thank  Senator Cavanagh  for his intervention. My objection to the private funding of political parties would be reduced if that funding were made public. It seems incredible to me that that is not done. If a political party receives funds from sources which it does not disclose, then at least inferentially it is bounden to those sources in some way or another. I am pleased with the attitude of the Labor Party on this matter. I did not hear what  Senator Cavanagh  said yesterday when I gave notice of this motion. Apparently he agreed with me and said that it was Labor Party policy. I thought he would be contradicting it. The argument of disclosing sources applies to my friends in the Labor Party. As soon as it secretly receives money from trade unions and other supporters it loses its objectivity. By definition, it must. More particularly the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, if they receive millions - 
Surely  Senator McLaren  is not asking me to be naive enough to believe that the trade, unions do not finance the Labor Party in its election campaigns; The principle is precisely the same although I will concede to  Senator McLaren  that the amount of money given to the Labor Party by trade unions nowhere near compares with the amount of money given to the Liberal and National Country parties by God knows whom. 

 - Senator Messner asks how we know. I admired the speech he made on the previous motion. It showed that he has a profound knowledge of economics. With his background I concede that. Let him do a very simple sum with the membership of the Liberal Party, which is not well known but can be reasonably assessed. If you multiply that national membership by the membership fee and add on a few dollars that you get from your cake stalls and whatever- which we all have to do to raise this sort of money- you will find,  Senator Messner,  that the Liberal Party spends on an average something like Sim a year more than you can disclose that it receives from the subscriptions of members. I am not trying to score a point; that is simple arithmetic. All I am saying is that the sources of the money received are unknown to me, unknown to this Parliament and to the people of this country. If perchance hundreds of thousands of dollars come from oil companies, and I have no evidence that it does - 
Or from uranium lobbies. All I am asking is, how in the name of fortune can you gentlemen sitting on the other side of the chamber or your Ministers in the Cabinet be objective to any legislation which might adversely affect the mining lobby or the oil companies? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Upon whose advice, and on what basis of logic or morality, did the Government's representative in the United Nations vote to continue to recognise the Pol Pot regime as the legitimate Government of Kampuchea. 
Will this decision in any way delay the air-lifting to Kampuchea of substantial quantities of aid, at least to the extent of the 700 tonnes of food per week which was flown into Cambodia by the United States at the height of the Vietnam war. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. He will know that a State government recently requested a report on the activities of companies associated with a senior member of this Parliament. He will also know that a preliminary section of that report was tabled in the New South Wales Parliament. Although the report gave no proof of the serious allegations contained therein, it caused the resignation of a senior member of this Government. Because of the serious implications of such an action, highlighted recently by the New South Wales Bar Association, which said that it was of the opinion that proper administration of justice in that State required the cessation of this practice, will the Attorney-General make an objective statement to the Senate in relation to the principles involved so that the Senate can debate this serious matter in order to see whether sensible and helpful guidelines can be established for the future? 
-On 22 March 1977, 1 resigned from the Liberal Party of Australia. That was not the end of the matter. I resigned from the Liberal Party not only because I was disenchanted with its policies and procedures but also because I was totally disenchanted with Parliament as it exists and performs today. I felt that it was a total and utter waste of time, a waste of a good life, to come here when the result of a most important debate or matter was already predetermined. No matter what sort of eloquence and logic is expressed in a debate, the result is already predetermined. I believe- I will speak to this briefly in a moment- that that classic situation exists with the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. 
As I understand it- I have been saying this for two years- four massive crises will hit Australia within the next four or five years. I predict and have predicted for some time that there will be one million unemployed young people by 1982. 1 predict that there will be industrial disputation of a kind that we have never seen in this country because of the erosion of the real wage, the vacuum left by the resignation of  Mr Bob  Hawke from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other factors. That industrial disputation could well paralyse this country. I can see an energy crisis of catastrophic proportions coming upon this nation and a heroin problem which will be too terrible to contemplate. 
I mention those four crises because this Bill impinges on two of them. None of those crises will be solved or prevented unless we can depoliticise some of the big issues that are coming before this Parliament. Drugs, industrial disputation and unemployment have to be depoliticised if we are to go anywhere at all. That is why for the last two years I have made the call, which I am pleased to know is now supported by distinguished Australians such as  Sir Roderick  Carnegie and  Mr Bob  Hawke, that the only way in which those crises can be prevented is by having an on-going national conference of all political parties, of employers and of the trade union to see whether some consensus can be achieved to prevent the unemployment which will be caused not only by the economic policies of this Government or a following government but also by automation and computerisation. The figures are there. Surveys conducted in Europe show that jobs will not be there for one-third of all the clerical work force four years from now. That computation and other factors show that we face the situation that in 1982 one million young Australians will be wanting a job that is not there for them. That, to me, is not a stable society. It is a society of haves and have-nots. That sort of society cannot be a stable one. This Bill is important because it impinges on both the employment situation and the industrial disputation situation. I believe that we need more conciliation and more consultation; yet this Bill provides less of both. 
Let me dwell briefly on the circumstances in which the Senate is debating this Bill. I think that the circumstances are almost unprecedented for a major Bill going through this Parliament. First of all, we have a member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who is, as  Senator Watson  has said, controversial and who is not frightened to express himself using the most extreme language- I do not want to canvass whether he was justified in doing that- in taking the unprecedented step of condemning a Bill before the national Parliament. That condemnation has been made public to the extent that every member of the Parliament has received a copy of his letter to the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street.  Added to that mix is the fact that 25 commissioners have joined in the song and have expressed grave misgivings about this Bill. 
It has never happened before, to my knowledge, in the case of industrial relations. But it goes even further. Last night there was a meeting in camera between the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore, and the Minister.  Sir John  Moore specially discussed matters of concern- we do not know whether they are matters of personal concern but they are certainly the concern of the Commission- with the Minister for Industrial Relations. In that scenario we were told this morning that the Bill must pass through the Senate today. Given the extraordinary circumstances, I would have thought that the government would give a reason to honourable senators on this side of the House as to why it must be passed today. The Government did not even attempt to dress-up a reason, such as the legislative program or some other thing. There was not a single word on it. I challenge the  speaker  who follows me in this debate, whoever he may be, to tell honourable senators whether he knows the reason why this Bill must be passed before the Senate rises tomorrow morning. 
Indeed I did. I am going to come back to that right now. Does the honourable senator mean the statement which was made by  Senator Durack  on behalf of  Mr Street? 
Yes. I come to that now. That statement adds to my confusion, apprehension and disenchantment of this place as a forum for democratically elected senators to express a view verbally and in a vote. That statement was tabled this morning. I was very interested to read this morning on an Australian Associated Press telex that  Mr Street  told journalists outside Parliament that a full statement was likely later today following his meeting with the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore. That is the only statement he made: therefore, one would imagine that this is the full statement surrounding discussions with  Sir John  Moore. I find it a most incredible statement. I would like  Senator Messner,  whose logic in debate I respect, to explain away some of my misgivings. The statement says: 
I then made arrangements to see  Sir John  Moore last night.  Sir John  told me of concern within the Commission about the autonomy of the commissioners and asked specifically whether the consultative proposals in the legislation would enable a  deputy president  to direct a commissioner, or whether commissioners' decisions would require the approval of a  deputy president. 

 Sir John was expressing his concern.  Mr Street  continued: 
I assured  Sir John  that under the proposed legislation, commissioners retained the right of final decision on a case they had heard. They would not be subject to direction by a  deputy president,  nor would their decision be subject to approval by a  deputy president.  The requirement was to consult, and it would be up to the  deputy president  and commissioner concerned to work out arrangements suitable to them in the circumstances. 
That is the end of that paragraph. In the next paragraph,  Sir John  raises the question of the work of the Commission. I would have thought that this statement screams aloud for a reaction from  Sir John  Moore to  Mr Street's  assertion and guarantee. Was he satisfied? What did  Sir John  say when  Mr Street  assured him that this was not the intention of the Bill? Good heavens,  Sir John  Moore is a distinguished jurist who would know the most complicated of all bibles, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, like the back of his hand. He knows the implications of this Bill. Am I to be told in the Senate by a simple assurance, out of a full statement by a Minister, that  Mr Street  assured him that that was not the intention and therefore  Sir John  went away quite happy? 
Does that make any real sense? With your indulgence,  Mr President,  I would be grateful if  Senator Bishop  could enlighten me as to whether this statement was a joint text. 
I am coming to that. I am indebted to the second reading speech of  Senator McClelland  this morning. We do not know what  Sir John's  reaction was. Does he still have misgivings? Did he take away information from  Mr Street  to assuage the objections of the 25 commissioners,  Mr Justice  Staples and virtually the whole of the trade union movement including the Australian Council of Trade Unions? 

 -And Sir Richard Kirby. Have their objections been met? If they have, I would be obliged to hear that from the Minister for Industrial Relations or from  Senator Durack  so that I can change my attitude to this Bill, which at the moment is outright opposition. I do not have those sorts of assurances in regard to that information. On the top of page 2 of the statement, the Minister said: 
Any qualification on the need to consult would obviously carry with it an increased risk of inconsistency.  Sir John  acknowledged this point. 
One must be very careful with the word 'acknowledged'. If I were to be told that the Collingwood football team could beat the Carlton team in the grand final by 20 goals- forgive me,  Senator McAuliffe.  I am talking about the real game- I would acknowledge that that was said, but there is no way I would agree with it. So, the word 'acknowledged' can be a very clever one. It could be said that  Sir John  nodded his head, and acknowledged that the Minister had made the point. But there is no specific statement that he was satisfied about his misgivings. Then I found a nonsequitur, in the last paragraph of the statement. I think it was  Senator Douglas  McClelland who raised this point very well this morning. I quote from the statement: 

 Sir John asked when the legislation was expected to be passed through the Senate. 
Let us dig a little deeper. It is rather a strange question to come out of the blue. Why did  Sir John  ask it, anyway? He knew that the legislation was before the Senate on Tuesday. Was he inferring that he was worried about the rapid passage of this legislation? Was he asking whether it could be held up? I have quoted what he said, and it comes out of the blue. 
-Yes. The statement continues: 
I replied that the legislation would be dealt with in the normal way, but that the actual timing was of course in the hands of the Senate. 
I ask you,  Mr President:  Would it be a proper reading or interpretation of the English language there that this Bill today is being dealt with in the normal way? I would have thought it is quite abnormal for a Bill of this magnitude, with its background and the objections that I have mentioned, to be raced through this House when almost every honourable senator wants to speak about it. Looking at the speakers' list, one can imagine only one of two results: That the Bill will be gagged or guillotined, although I believe honourable senators do not use that instrument as fiercely as members of the House of Representatives. If the Government wants to get the Bill passed tonight or tomorrow morning, there is no way it can do so if the Opposition wants to delay it by talking on every single clause in the Bill. We can debate even its name and the page numbers. Those are the devices that can be and have been employed. There is no way the Government will get it through unless it uses the guillotine. 
There is no way it will get through the second reading of the Bill by 10.30 p.m. unless the debate is gagged. Will the Government do that? If it is to do it, is that the normal way? If it is not the normal way, why did  Mr Street  assure the  President  of the Commission that it would be done in the normal way? Was  Mr Street  sincere- I believe him to be a most sincere man- in assuring  Sir John  Moore that things would be done in the normal way, or has something happened since  Mr Street  left  Sir John  Moore? Has he got instructions? Have  Senator Durack  or  Senator Carrick  received instructions that at all costs this Bill must be sent to the Governor-General tomorrow or on Monday? I believe that those are the sorts of questions that should be answered. I sometimes get tired of the Opposition filibustering and delaying. Who does not? Opposition senators probably get tired of it themselves. I believe that in this type of situation it is a reasonable way to behave. There are about 14 more speakers on the list, all of whom can speak for an hour. I wonder what the Government's real intention is. 
I wish to proceed from being critical to sympathising with the Government on one aspect of the legislation. In his second reading speech the Minister mentioned consultation with the National Labour Consultative Council. I make an appeal to the NLCC, particularly to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. I will now be very strongly critical of those two organisations for boycotting the discussions that the Government invited them to have when this controversial Bill was being framed. I do not think that there is any defence to that action. I say that while trying to be fair. I know why they boycotted it. That infamous Public Service Bill which we tried to oppose was before the Parliament. They wanted to show their objection in the strongest way by saying that they would not consult with the Government until it removed that threat to democracy. That is all good stuff but it is like saying: 'I do not like this game; I am going to take my bat and go home'. When they are not at the conference there is not a damn thing they can do to persuade or dissuade the Government from a course of action. They have no right to complaint. I would have thought that, to put it at its least, it was an unfortunate circumstance because, although I may be naive, I have great confidence in the establishment of the NLCC. I believe it can provide a framework for proper consultation for compromise and for both sides to sit down and talk about matters before they reach legislative form. 
We know another thing about this place. Once anything reaches legislative form with the polarisation of the political parties in this Parliament there is very little chance of having it amended, notwithstanding the value of the amendments. That happens on both sides, whether it is the Labor Party or the Liberal Party that controls the Treasury benches. I now come briefly to deal with the Bill. I promised the Government Whip I would not use anywhere near my full speaking time. I have absolutely no intention of going through the whole Bill. I have heard most speakers in this debate and I must say I agree almost entirely with what was said by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Evans.  For that reason, the Australian Democrats could not possibly support this Bill. 1 would like to speak briefly to two questions. One that worries me is deregistration. I wonder whether the Government is fair dinkum about this. Does it really think this will solve anything? In general terms, in my 1 8 years in politics I have believed that there are two things that cannot be solved by legislation- industrial disputes and morality. We cannot legislate for people to be moral and we cannot legislate for relationships in industrial matters to be determined simply by some boffin in the department writing out a section of an Act which will bump heads together and solve everything. I know that the threat of deregistration was used effectively by  Mr McMahon  in 1965 against the waterside workers. Whether that threat caused a year's peace on the waterfront I do not know. 
On reflection, I believe that deregistration would be counter-productive. I believe that the people whom the Government has declared its avowed enemies, and rightly so- the extreme left wing communist, militant leaders of trade unions- would love section 143A. They would think it is fantastic. It is playing right into the hands of the big unions particularly. I do not know to what extent they would be trembling at the threat of deregistration. It would hurt the small unions, which can be manipulated and would then be without registration, but I should have thought that an extreme left wing communist-led union with lots of muscle, with the tiered system where power is vested in the top, would love to go back to the jungle of open bargaining, particularly in the big industries. As soon as this Bill is passed they will be sitting down working out ways and means of how to get deregistered. Is that going to help to solve any industrial problems? I do not know of any, in this country or elsewhere that have been solved by confrontation. I do not know whether people such as  Senator Missen,  who normally look at these matters very closely, have looked at the implications. I am not the best person in the Senate to interpret laws, I confess, but the Bill states: 
Where, on application by the Minister, a Full Bench is satisfied . . . the Full Bench shall make a declaration . . . 
Not 'may' but 'shall'. We have the criteria where, on application by the Minister, a Full Bench is satisfied it must do certain things. What must it be satisfied about? That is the question. The Bill provides: 
Where . . . a Full Bench is satisfied that- 
an organization has been or is, or two or more members of an organization have been or are, engaged in industrial action; and 
the industrial action has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or of a part of the community, 
Those are the two conditions. It passes my comprehension how a provision such as that can find its way into a Bill. I can think of so many areas where there could be a nationwide dispute involving two relatively small, unimportant, militant, mischievous trade unionists or members of the organisation. The national organisation might want to settle the dispute, but if the two planted members of the organisation continued with the sort of action that could prevent settlement the whole union could be deregistered. Is that the intention of the Government? Is that democratic? Is that the sort of thing that the Government believes legislation can fix? 
I refer to the special reasons dealt with in clause 8. There are many offensive things in the Bill, but it will pass. Several members of the Liberal Party have mentioned to me their objections to certain aspects of this Bill. It will pass; they will not cross the floor. There will be the necessary filibustering delaying tactics of the Opposition, and quite properly so. If the Press sees the Opposition to be weak-kneed, that will not do. But where does that leave the country? It means that all honourable senators will stay here until four, five or six o 'clock in the morning. The result at that time will be that they will be exhausted, shouting abuse at each other. The Government will have the legislation, and the result will be no different from what it is at this moment. I will have no bar of that. I will not add my name or my presence to that kind of farce which is this Parliament at the moment. If there were the remotest chance of persuading some members of the Liberal Party who are against this legislation to cross the floor, maybe it would be worth something. However, the result is a totally foregone conclusion. 
Let me conclude by making this point about industrial relations, and perhaps industrial relations is a misnomer. I always thought it would be better styled personal relations, because that is what it is. It is the relationship between persons around a conference table who have a dispute and are trying to solve it. Let me give one example. Politicians are the first to jump in and try to exacerbate the problem and make people suffer. Last year, I think it was, the La Trobe Valley strike led to all of Victoria being paralysed by the strike of some 1,800 maintenance workers. 
-It was 1977. We had political speeches. I was unfortunate enough to be a member of the House of Representatives when the matter was debated. About 3,000 people were virtually starving. They had been out on strike for seven weeks and were being supported totally by their wives and families. The Salvation Army had run out of food and soup to give them. We were talking about a group of people in the La Trobe Valley, which is in my State. There are no more fiercely independent human beings in 
Australia, yet we were told by people on the Government side in that other place that the workers really did not want to be on strike, that they were being led around by the nose by some little Pommie commo called Armstrong; that he was the cause of it and there was no real grievance. The people met for a long time and almost reached a settlement. Then, for political reasons, the politicians jumped in. The rumour was that  Mr Fraser  was prepared to send troops down to the La Trobe Valley to set the turbines going again, the dispute flamed again and people continued to suffer. When independent men and women are prepared to do without Christmas holidays for years, to see their bank savings totally eroded, virtually to starve and to allow their children to suffer, surely we can say: Is there not a basic reason? It just does not appeal to reason to think that the workers were simply being led by the nose by some little Pommie commo called Armstrong. I believe that all industrial disputes can be assessed on the personal relationships involved. That is why legislation, particularly legislation of this kind, is not going one dot further to solve those sorts of disputes. Indeed, it will hold back the settlement of the disputes which will occur more and more in this country in the next four years. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the total revenue to the Government resulting from the inclusion of the aged pension in taxable income. 
Will the Government consider exempting the pension from income tax, in view of the distress which its inclusion causes to the elderly. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) How do benefits and conditions provided under the Commonwealth Superannuation Act 1976 compare with those available to employees in the private sector. 
What effect will future liabilities to indexed benefits have on the tax burden. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether it is true that for two years two female employees, who worked as night telephone attendants in the Allora telephone exchange in Queensland before it became automatic, worked a total of 62 hours over seven nights a week and were paid $65.23 for their services? Were these people employed on contract and thus ineligible for holiday pay, sick pay, redundancy pay and workers compensation for injuries? ls it also true that the same conditions operate presently in over 350 manual exchanges throughout Australia? How can Telecom Australia j justify this situation? 
I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Walsh.  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
Today a document came into my hands which is purported to have been written and authorised by  Senator Walsh.  I paid him the courtesy of telling the Opposition Whip that I would be making this personal explanation. I thank him for coming into the chamber. If my information is untrue, I would be pleased if  Senator Walsh  would interrupt me because the last thing I want to do is to misrepresent him. I refer to a paper headed 'Democrat Deceit ' which states: 
On July 1 9th  Senator Don  Chipp, Leader of the Australian Democrats had a letter published in the 'National Farmer' (circulation nearly 200,000). 

 Senator Chipp informed its readers that his Party would have the balance of power in the Senate and would then introduce private members' Bills to reduce sales tax, telephone call charges and petrol prices in country areas. 
The first would be a tax Bill, - 
This is  Senator Walsh  's commentthe other two would require an appropriation of money. 
Section 53 of the Australian Constitution states: 
Proposed laws appropriating revenue or money or imposing taxation shall not originate in the Senate'. 
Presumably  Senator Chipp  did not study law, spend 20 years in Parliament and several years in the Ministry without discovering Section 53. 
One can only conclude therefore, that  Senator Chipp  was trying to take country people for a ride. 
I presume from  Senator Walsh's  silence that he is proud to be the author of that piece. I think it is appropriate that I read an extract from a letter which I wrote to the  National Farmer  on 1 9 July. I was replying to the newly appointed Federal Director of the National Country Party who made some critical remarks about my party. I wrote: 
I wish to notify  Mr Osmond,  and am pleased to tell the National Farmer' again, that the Australian Democrats are totally committed to the equalisation of petrol in country areas; rationalising telephone charges, basing them on time rather than distance; reducing the sales tax on goods transported to rural areas, and introducing orderly marketing for all primary products. The Australian Democrats believe it is immoral for farmers to be working for a negative wage. 
Further, we remind  Mr Osmond  that his Party has been in total control in Queensland as a coalition partner for over twenty-two years, and yet hundreds of Queensland farmers are leaving their homes each year, and country people are still paying substantially more than city people for their telephones and petrol. 
The Australian Democrats welcome certain points of the Social Services Amendment Bill 1979 and would agree with the amendments put by the Labor Party. However, we find ourselves in a dilemma because of the way in which voting occurs in this place. The Labor Party, through  Senator Grimes,  has moved a six-part amendment to the motion for the second reading. We agree with five of these. The one with which we disagree is the twice-yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants. Our policy is for quarterly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants. We can see no justification, particularly in light of the figures on inflation released today, for people who cannot help themselves having to wait six months before their pensions are indexed while everybody else in the community receives an immediate benefit. Having made that qualification, we will be voting with the Opposition, with the Labor Party, on the amendment to the Bill. 
We welcome certain reforms in the Bill. We welcome the restoration of half-yearly indexation of pensions. We welcome the raising of the income test limits for fringe benefits, but we believe that this should be made automatic as a form of indexation. We welcome the extending of the pensioner medical benefits to lone parents, and we welcome certain other adjustments. At this stage I wish to pay tribute, without being too personal, to the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle.  At a time when we have the Fraser Government- dominated by bureaucrats in the Treasury, dominated by one or two people in the Cabinet- cutting expenditure at any cost, while we might be critical of cuts in social welfare expenditure and I agree with almost everything  Senator Grimes  said tonight, to be fair, we ought to pay tribute to the Minister, who has held firm and preserved certain things in the Cabinet room. Having been in Cabinet, I can understand the battle she must have had and the strength of will she must have exerted in the Cabinet room to hold the line at certain things. 
I do not think it needs much imagination to understand the rapacity of  Mr Fraser  to cut welfare benefits to the unemployed, to aged pensioners, to young people. Looking at the record of the Minister in holding the linewith respect,  Senator Cavanagh  has been a Cabinet Minister- we ought to sympathise with the kind of battle  Senator Guilfoyle  has had. I simply pay credit to her. Secondly, I think it is fair to compliment  Senator Grimes  on his speech tonight. I agree with every point he made, with the exception of the one I have mentioned. 
On the question of half-yearly indexation, I find it rather strange and sad to hear members of the Liberal Party supporting the Bill, supporting the restoration of half-yearly indexation of pensions. It was only a few short weeks ago that I introduced a private member's Bill into this Parliament, with the support of the Labor Party, and asked for the suspension of Standing Orders. Every single member of the Liberal Party voted against debating that Bill because they said it was not a matter of urgency. 
I very rarely refer to them. I do not dignify them by reference. I think this is a condemnation of the party system. Just a few weeks ago, members of the Liberal Party voted against something in this parliamentary institution, but tonight, a few weeks later, they are supporting it totally and eulogising it. I ask sadly: Have they changed their minds about this? In the past few weeks have all members of the Liberal Party and National Country Party said: 'We were wrong. We should have obeyed our promise at the 1977 election to maintain the indexation of pensions. We were wrong in voting against that several weeks ago. We have now been persuaded by logic and compassion that it is a good thing to have half-yearly indexation of pensions'? Of course not. The party leaders, the hierarchy, have told the ciphers here in the party system: 'You must now change your minds. You must now vote differently in the Parliament from the way you voted some weeks ago '. 
Debate interrupted. 
Very reluctantly we will be voting with the Government on this issue, although I am in absolute sympathy with what  Senator Grimes  has said. The hard facts, as I understand them, are that if the Social Services Amendment Bill does not pass through the Senate today additional payments to pensioners will be delayed significantly. I sympathise with  Senator Grimes's  dilemma. We have had thrust before us two decisions. One is to agree to a Government request to pass this Bill before 6 o'clock tonight. This, as I believe  Senator Grimes  mentioned in his speech at the second reading stage, would be an intolerable situation. Many matters will have to be explained at the Committee stage. Most honourable senators would like to speak on many matters in Committee. On the other hand, if this motion is defeated, as the Opposition hopes it will be, payments will be delayed to pensioners unless the Government guillotines debate on the Bill. For that reason, we have great sympathy and support for the case put forward by the Opposition. But because of the practicality and pragmatism we will be obliged to vote with the Government and against the Opposition on this question. 
We will not oppose this clause. In regard to clause 9 (a) I point out that our party's policy does not seek six-monthly indexation but quarterly indexation of all pensions and benefits. I briefly remind the Committee that when I was the  chairman  of the Liberal Party's Social Welfare Committee we researched this matter very deeply with almost every social welfare agency in the country- the Australian Council on the Ageing, the Catholic Welfare Bureau, the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Australian Council of Social Service and so on- all of which said that indexation was the most pressing social reform needed. The Committee, in consultation with those bodies, was satisfied that quarterly indexation would present no great burden to the Department of 
Social Services or to the bureaucracy. Hence the election promise of 1975 given by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of instant and automatic indexation adjustments of pensions came about. Six-monthly indexation is certainly not instant and automatic. The release of consumer price index figures quarterly is a pointer to when pensions should be indexed. Having said that and pointing out our objections, I state that I will not be voting against the clause. 
Last evening I had five minutes before the sitting of the Senate adjourned. I occupied most of that five minutes complimenting the Government and congratulating the Minister for Social Security  (Senator 
Guilfoyle) on her personal achievements in the Cabinet to hold the wall against fierce opposition. Today I want to devote some time to being critical of the Government and of the omissions in the Social Services Amendment Bill 1979. Although it does some good things, there are a great number of grave problems which this legislation does nothing to assist. Firstly, the family allowance has been frozen since the new scheme was first introduced in 1976. The Government took and now takes a lot of credit, and properly so, for the new increased allowance when it hailed the allowance as an improvement on the tax rebate system which it replaced. There has been no increase since 1 976. With the inflation we have experienced since that time it is inevitable that the financial position of those people who are in receipt of that allowance is deteriorating daily. Families of pensioners are hit particularly hard because the extra allowance granted for each dependant has not increased since 1975. Families of unemployed people with three or four children and families of single parents with three or four children are now almost $30 below the poverty line. 
I ask the Minister: Would she pay me the courtesy when she responds of telling me what is the Government's attitude to these people? Admittedly, a poverty line is an arbitrary line drawn by some social economists- essentially, Professor Henderson. After due consideration I have not heard anybody declare that Professor Henderson is a left wing radical or whatever. In fact, the Government appointed him to head an inquiry. He is a very highly respected, responsible and conservative gentleman. He drew a line which simply meant that any person or group of persons in Australia who did not have an income up to that poverty line did suffer hardship. People at the poverty line have almost a subsistence living- the bare essentials. But now we have people, families, $30 below the poverty line. I am fascinated to know how the Minister could justify that. How does the Government justify it? Will the Minister answer that by saying: 'Well, we are keeping them $30 below the poverty line for this reason or that set of reasons', or will she ignore it? If she ignores it, and I feel that she has no other alternative, that is virtually an answer in itself. The Government's response has been to allocate half a million dollars in this Budget to the emergency relief agencies. Not too many people in Australia die of starvation, but how do people below the poverty line live? If my figures are correct and they are $30 below the poverty line, it could be said that they should be dying of starvation in the streets. They are not- we know that- and I am not alleging that they are. But the reason that they survive is that they go straight to the emergency relief agencies, the Salvation Army, the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Catholic Welfare Bureau- these magnificent groups of people who virtually save lives. 
We may ask whether the Government has been reasonable to them. This year an allocation of $500,000 has been made to those agencies for all of Australia. That $500,000 is about onequarter of the amount spent on relief in Melbourne alone in one year. In Melbourne alone $2m is spent by those emergency relief agencies. The voluntary agencies estimate that the whole amount will be used up in one month. They report an increase in demand of over 50 per cent in the first six months of this year. Some increases are greater. In my own State, the Sunshine Christian Community Services reports a 460 per cent increase in families seeking relief. The Springvale Community Aid and Advice Bureau reports that demand has increased by 50 per cent for every six months for the last three years. What is needed is a government guarantee of a dollar for every dollar spent by the agencies in emergency aid. Are we talking about much money? No, we are not. We are talking about a sum between Slim and $ 1 4m a year, which in a Budget of this size is petty cash. In fact the figure being provided is $500,000. 1 would be grateful if the Minister could explain the rationale of this apparently ridiculous figure. 
Half of the people receiving relief are on Department of Social Security pensions and benefits, which in many cases have dropped so far below the poverty line that people simply cannot exist on them, and as benefits for young unemployed people and unemployed people without dependants are still frozen, their position will become even more desperate. One could wonder about the homeless young of whom we talked yesterday, when debating the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1979. Their numbers are increasing at a catastrophic rate. But this sort of legislation means that there will be more of them. The Australian Democrats say that the whole situation is a national disgrace. The Government is now forcing low income people and voluntary agencies into institutional begging, it is depriving people of dignity. Last year was a disaster, and this Budget has ensured that this year will be even worse. 
I am trying to be as objective as possible. I know that is almost impossible in politics if one belongs to a political party other than the 
Government parties. I believe the economic policies being followed by this Government are callous, I believe they are wrong. The Government is obsessed with the monetarists who seem to monopolise the Treasury. As I said before, the quantity of money theory, which is essentially what the monetarists say in dressed up form, is still valid. It was valid when I learned about it in economics at university, and it is valid today. The theory is that if the demand for goods and services is almost equal to the supply of goods and services and a lot more money is thrust into the economy, there will be too much money chasing too few goods, and prices will go up. Is there anybody in this place who suggests for one moment that the demand for goods and services in today's economy is equal to the supply of goods and services? I would have thought that industry was about 30 per cent under capacity and that there was about 1 1 or 12 per cent under capacity in our human resources. We say that there is a gap that can be made up to get the economy moving. As I think the Labor spokesman in the other place said, the Government has an obsession with putting up prices; it seems to react to inflation by encouraging increases in prices. 
Quite apart from faulty economic policies, I have said in this place over and over again that the position will get worse, even if the Government reverses its economic policy. In the next five years- at the longest, a decade- automation and computerisation will eliminate one job in every three in Australia. We will then have a divided society, as  Senator Grimes  put it so well yesterday. I believe that the Government is sincere in its belief that its economic policies are correct, although I say that they are not; but those policies, by their very definition, will cause more unemployment. The Government has been honest enough to say that. Those policies are hard medicine, they will cause more unemployment, but they will fix inflation. That is the Government's argument. It is a respectable argument, and I am sure that the Government believes it and is sincere about it. But it also says that the policies will inevitably cause more unemployment in the short term. 
Having said that, it penalises the victims by not giving them indexation of their pensions, by making unemployed kids under 18 try to live on $36 a week. The position of the young unemployed will be a scar on our society which will take a lifetime to erase. Yet some people make the assumption that all unemployed youths can live with their parents. I know the view of some of my former Liberal colleagues who are of a conservative political persuasion. They have been brought up in good homes, so to speak, in good families, reasonably affluent families, in which a fairly strong line of discipline has been exercised. I give them credit for that. They make the assumption that all good children should live with their parents. But the tragedy is that they make the mistake of judging everybody by their own high standards. There are hundreds of thousands of young kids in Australia who for some very good reason do not, cannot and will not live with their parents. Since 1975 they have been expected when unemployed to accept a flat rate, a frozen rate, of $36 a week. Again I ask the Minister how she expects a kid of 18 to live on $36 a week for housing, food, clothing and travelling. That is what has happened to an estimated 15,000 homeless young people a year in Melbourne. We are not talking about an isolated little case of half a dozen beeros with wine bottles in a park, slumped down on an army greatcoat - 
I do not know whether it would be any good appealing to the honourable senator's emotion, because it is always impossible to appeal to something that does not exist. 
It gives me some sort of relief to know that I do not. The honourable senator slumped down in his chair can scoff at 15,000 kids in Melbourne who do not have a home. Does he think that is a situation for levity? Does he think that is a situation for making a political point? Or is it a situation that is a serious one which needs some response? A welfare worker in Shepparton in my State recently counted 30 homeless young people sleeping out under bridges, in railway carriages or whatever. If  Senator Sim  would care to search his own city, I am sure he would find a similar situation there. Those young people are $33.40 below the poverty line. Yet this of course applies only to the lucky ones who are actually on unemployment benefit. One agency providing emergency accommodation found that 80 per cent of the homeless young people coming to it were actually not on any benefits at all through difficulties with the Department, through fear, shame or confusion. Obviously this is driving young people into crime. If  Senator Sim  will forgive me for being emotional once again, it is in fact driving young people into prostitution, drug peddling and all kinds of squalid and demoralising lifestyles. Social workers in Sydney estimate that teenage prostitution has increased by 400 per cent in the last six months. They estimate that 
Australia-wide 30,000 to 40,000 kids will not have a bed to sleep in tonight. 
-I thank  Senator Young  for his interjection. That is perfectly correct. It is tragic. I am not saying that all those kids are engaging in these activities because they are unemployed. Almost every report by social welfare workers that I have read indicates a direct link nowadays from youth unemployment to drug addiction, unemployment and crime of various descriptions, particularly prostitution. The Liberal Premier of Victoria recently made a statement along almost identical lines. 
I conclude by simply referring to what this Bill does to innocent trade unionists who are thrown out of jobs through no fault of their own and who will be penalised. I just cannot understand that sort of inhuman legislation. As  Senator Grimes  reminded us, the  Age  editorial- which I readsaid that the right of a person in a civilised society to be able to expect a reasonable standard of living for himself and his family is a right, not a privilege. That right of an unfortunate person to receive support from his more fortunate colleagues is not a play thing of politicians. But this Government has chosen to make it so. 
I have just conceded that there was justification for the inquiry because any allegation of corruption must be explored. I am merely saying: Let us look at the value of the complaint that led to the inquiry and to consider the fact that today's action has been taken before the report of that inquiry has even been received by the Government. To me that seems to be an extraordinary course of action. 
-Can I answer that. 
Firstly I should like to thank the Government very sincerely for paying me the courtesy of giving me a prior copy of the statement and the interim report earlier in the day, at 3 o'clock or so. I appreciate that deeply because I have had a long-standing interest in this problem. I also thank  Senator Grimes  for paying me the courtesy of allowing me to speak first on this matter, as I have an appointment relating to it later on this evening. Let me say at the outset that I hope honourable senators, if they do listen to me, wil allow for the sentiment that I have for the Narcotics Bureau. Maybe that will sway my judgment, because I helped to form it in 1969. I have eulogised its performance. I have said, and I still believe, that it is one of the most efficient law enforcement agencies of its kind in the world. Its integrity is beyond question, and it is composed of dedicated, hard working men and women who virtually place their lives in their hands every day. So I may be swayed by sentiment or emotion, and my judgment may not be what should be expected. 
I believe that the Government has acted in good faith but that it has made a ghastly mistake. I am not going to speak on this question as did the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  this afternoon in the House. I hope that  Senator Grimes  does not follow that pattern. 
I was very disappointed in  Mr Hayden  's speech, because he is a man for whom I do have a respect and a friendship.  His  speech seemed again to be trying to score political points off the Minister, off the Narcotics Bureau and off the head of the Department. To me that is a lot less than is desired when the heroin problem has reached the proportions it has in this country at this stage. I go this far: I say that there are two groups tonight who, when they hear the news, will be laughing all the way to the bank. I refer to the crime syndicates and the corrupt policemen throughout Australia. There is one group which is laughing with revenge. They are policemen who are not corrupt, but who have been jealous of the Federal Narcotics Bureau since its inception and who have worked for its destruction since it was formulated. There is one group which ought to be crying, and that is the group of addicts, parents of addicts, future addicts and parents of future addicts, because I believe what has been announced by the Government today in good faith is little short of tragedy when looking at what I believe to be the number one potential problem facing Australia today, that is, organised crime, particularly that relating to narcotics. 
I have mentioned before in this House, and so have other people, the magnitude of organised crime in Australia today. Sometimes I do not know what is wrong with Australians. If there were a neighbourhood where some factory wanted to build a monster which would be belching out polluted air and destroying the whole environment the entire neighbourhood would be up in arms, outraged. The people would attend meetings at the local halls and would put pressure on the councillors. Yet here we have palpable evidence in report after report- even today the Woodward report in New South Wales emphasised this- of a massive body of organised crime in Australia today which, on a conservative estimate, is netting profits of $700m per year. 
-It is $700m a year, a figure that the mind almost cannot comprehend, it is so massive. It would be by far the biggest industry in Australia, not paying taxes, corrupting and polluting our whole way of life, and yet unlike what would happen if a factory were built in our neighbourhood, nobody seems to give a damn, because on this question there are very few people in State or Federal politics who express any concern about it. 
Let me just mention to the Senate from this morning's newspaper one matter which was released by  Mr Stewart,  the New South Wales Labor Minister for Health. In opening a conference, he said that the use of heroin in New South Wales increased by about 24 per cent in two years 1976 to 1978, according to the study done by Miss Roseanne Bonney, a researcher for the Royal Commission into drug trafficking. Miss Bonney 's figures showed that the number of heavy users of narcotics, those exposed to the danger of overdosing- that means addicts- had risen in New South Wales from just over 7,000 in 1976 to about 9,250 in 1978.  Mr Stewart  said that if those State figures were applied Australia wide there would be about 26,500 hard drug users in the country, or almost 0.2 per cent of the population. 
If the Senate queries the figure of $700m a year profit, just work out  Mr Stewart's  figures, which I believe are conservative. David Hirst, the journalist who wrote the book  Heroin in Australia  which was published last week, puts it at about 50,000 addicts. But let us take this conservative figure. Multiply that 26,500 by $200 per week, which is a conservative estimate of what a heroin addict needs to sustain his habit. That alone is $250m per year, and we know that the figure that most addicts need to sustain their habit is something between $400 and $800 per week. Add to that illegal gambling which flourishes in Australia, particularly in New South Wales. According to Bob Bottom and other authorities, this nets about $150m a year profit. Add to that cannabis, which brings in an amount of profit equal to that for heroin, $300m, and the figure of $700m profit becomes credible in a most frightening way. If these sorts of profits are being made by criminals and by businessmen, or criminals disguised as respectable businessmen, what becomes the prime target? Of course, the Federal Narcotics Bureau would be number one target of those kinds of syndicates. After months of trying to destroy this agency they have now succeeded. That is why I say that tonight they will be having parties that will outrival the parties held by the connections of Hyperno, which had a victory in another arena today. They have won a long battle, a battle that has been devastatingly planned and magnificently executed. 
Let me trace the history of this attack on the Federal Narcotics Bureau. I wish to ask some questions of the Government in good faith. Why was there such indecent haste to disband the Federal Narcotics Bureau; what was the urgency of it? It all started, in the public forum, in June of this year when  Mr Harvey  Bates was called upon to resign. I need not go into that tonight but the fact was that the Hall Committee was set up to inquire into alleged leakages from the Bureau. I use the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony): 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Treasurer received complaints that income tax forms, especially Form A, are in short supply in Melbourne. 
Has a shortage of income tax forms caused delays in submission of returns by taxation accountants and consequent delays in the receipt of tax rebates. 
Does the Treasurer intend to have the situation investigated. 
I present the following petition from 75 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government exert Diplomatic pressure on the Soviet Authorities to secure release from detention of a Soviet citizen  Mr Igor  Ogurtsov, a Graduate of the University of Leningrad, who was sentenced to seven years goal, eight years hard labour and five years internal exile- a total of twenty years, in accordance with Articles 64a and 72 of the USSR Criminal Code. 

 Mr Ogurtsov, now age 40, has already served eleven years of his sentence and is currently held in Concentration Camp No. VS 389.35-Permskaya Oblast, Stanitsa Vsekhsviatskaya. 
His health has deteriorated to the extent, that he is not expected to live long enough to fee his release from detention. 

 Mr Ogurtsov 's only 'crime' is, that he is a Christian, and has participated in a discussion group on the future of a Christian-Democratic System in Russia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question concerning the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs, headed by  Mr Justice  Williams, which was appointed in October 1977. The Minister would agree that that was well before any allegations against the Federal Narcotics Bureau had surfaced from anyone. Is it true that when the Commission was established certain Commonwealth officers were seconded, as is normal, to assist the Commission in its inquiries? Is it true also that officers were seconded to that Commission from the Commonwealth Department of Health, the Minister's Department, and the Commonwealth Police? Is it true also that the offer by the Federal Narcotics Bureau of assistance to the Commission through the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs was declined by the Commission? I ask the Attorney-General a question in two parts: Was he present at any discussion of 
Ministers which discussed the staffing of the Commission? If he was, or even if he was not, can he give me any idea of the reason for this rather strange omission from staff assisting the Commission of staff from an agency which at that time was- it still is- the only Federal Government agency dealing with drug trafficking? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question on the same subject as that on which a question was asked by  Senator Teague.  At the risk of being indelicate, I too refer to the madness that is now manifesting itself in Iran. Further, at the risk of being indelicate again, I refer to the insanity in the Islamic renaissance which is sweeping certain parts of the world and which seems to be little appreciated in Australia. In particular, I turn to the oil crisis, or the possibility- not just because of Iran but because of the whole Middle East situation- of oil supplies being acutely short in Australia in a very short time. I ask the Minister: Will he confer with the Minister for National Development and prepare a complete statement on the Government's intentions in dealing with the problems which might be foreseen in the future and on the plans of both Federal and State governments concerning oil and energy supplies generally for a 10-year period, including proposals to encourage the development of sources of power alternative to petroleum and the fossil fuels? Can such a statement be brought into the Senate at the earliest opportunity so that it can be debated on a bipartisan basis by honourable senators? 
We understand why the Government has moved this motion. Similar motions have been moved in this place and in the House of Representatives near the end of almost every session. Such motions are necessary for a variety of reasons. We also understand why the Opposition is opposing the motion and why it is making the speeches it is in opposing it. Both sides, but particularly oppositions, are to blame. I am not just talking about the present Opposition. When I was a member of the Liberal Party when it was in Opposition in the House of Representatives we stonewalled and wasted time and thought that we would embarrass the Government and win a political victory out there with the electorate. What absolute rubbish. All members of Parliament do is exhaust themselves. The public does not give a damn. They think that we are rather pathetic. 
On principle, we will be opposing the motion. I repeat what  Senator Mason  said earlier. We are prepared to sit here until Christmas Eve if the Government wishes but we are not prepared to sit after 10.30 or 1 1 p.m. I give notice now that I will not be seen in the chamber after 1 1 o'clock on any evening. I say that without any apology at all. I say that so that some sneaky little member of the Press Gallery, who may have been boozing his night away in a bar, the next morning, after seeing a division list in  Hansard  and noticing that I was not present in the chamber, cannot write some sneaky little article anonymously - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Has there been an increase in aircraft 'near misses' in recent months; if so, is this partly attributable to cutbacks in spending in the Department of Transport, affecting staffing, overtime and equipment. 
Will the proposed transfer to Canberra of the Airworthiness and Air Safety Branches of the Department hinder their work through loss of contact with the aviation industry, and through resignations of experienced personnel. 
Has the Australian Federation of Airline Pilots expressed serious concern about the lack of essential safety services at certain major non-metropolitan airports. 
What action will the Minister take to ensure that Australia's excellent air safety record is not jeopardised. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Have the new guidelines for the work-test for unemployment benefit yet been implemented. 
What type of evidence will be required to prove independent job-seeking by the applicant. 
Will travel allowances be provided for such independent job-seeking, in the same way as for applicants travelling to interviews arranged by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
I have an open mind on this. Both  Senator Mason  and I have been persuaded by  Senator Evans  to vote for the amendment. I have an enormous respect for the legal ability, knowledge and humanitarian motives of  Senator Missen.  But he failed to persuade me that this proposal is a lemming-like act of the Australian Labor Party. Although I did a few years study of law I am so rusty now that I often speak in ignorance when talking about legal matters. I remember- my memory was jogged by  Senator Evans  during his speech- that one of the most inhuman, unchristian and rotten things to have been done in this country in recent years against human rights was done by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  at the last federal election when, for political purposes or reasons, he denied to helpless and harmless Aboriginal people the receiving of eye treatment. I think that that act is totally indefensible. In standing up here and pretending that we are concerned about human rights we should not be as concerned about the kind of people who are articulate and who can make flowery speeches as we are about the little guy, the person who cannot battle for himself, such as the helpless, illiterate Aborigines who have a serious eye disease that might send them blind. With my limited knowledge of the law, I would say that  Senator Evans's  amendment would at least allow the Human Rights Commission to inquire into that. Opposing this amendment would preclude the Commission from inquiring into and acting upon those sorts of things. 
I confess that it is quite possible that I have misunderstood the situation because I am not a lawyer, but for the reasons I have outlined the Australian Democrats will support  Senator Evans's  amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Is the existence and status of the Croatian language recognised by the Yugoslavian Federal Constitution, by the 
Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Croatia, and by several Australian State Governments. 
Why does the Federal Government not recognise Croatian as one of the community languages spoken by ethnic groups in Australia. 
The Australian Democrats will be reluctantly supporting the Government in respect of this motion. We are not reluctant to support the Government for the sake of supporting the Government. Nobody in this chamber wants an inquiry into the Commonwealth Police more than I do. Speaking on the question - 

 - Mr President, could you give me some guidance? Are we speaking to the point of order or to the motion to suspend Standing Orders? 
Am I not permitted to speak to the motion before the Chair that Standing Orders should be suspended? 
After hearing  Senator Evans  and  Senator Tate  I thought I might be permitted at least to speak a little more broadly than to the point of order. As  Senator Evans  and  Senator Tate  canvassed the whole question I think it is rather strange for members of the Australian Labor Party to pull me up on some piddling point of order to try to gag me from speaking to the same subject on which they have been speaking. I will speak to the point of order to satisfy the expansive mind of  Senator Walsh.  I believe that there is some validity in  Senator Cavanagh  's point of order. But as there will be only one vote, we will be placing ourselves on the side of the Government. It would be inconceivable that, if such a public inquiry or a judicial inquiry was held, the interests of the parties involved would not be prejudiced, to use roughly  Senator Evans'  words. I was amazed to hear  Senator Evans,  after saying that the only criterion should be whether the interests of parties is prejudiced, go on to say that such a judical inquiry would not prejudice the interests of the parties. I invite him to look, if at nothing else, at paragraph (c) of the proposed motion. I imagine that that would go right to the heart of the interests of the parties involved. Having been involved as a Minister with several royal commissions, I know that royal commissions get very juicy headlines. No other news seems to get juicer headlines than that of a royal commission. The terms of paragraph (c), let alone the other two paragraphs would be front page news for days. I ask how the interests of the parties would not be prejudiced if that was so. That is the view of the Australian Democrats on the question. 
When I first prepared notes for this debate, which must have been four or five weeks ago, I had enough notes to speak for at least an hour. But because of the stage of the debate I find that 75 per cent of what I had to say has already been said in the truly good speeches that have been made in this place from speakers on both sides of the House. If other honourable senators do not mind, I single out  Senator Missen  and  Senator Evans  as having made speeches of great worth to the Senate. The Australian Democrats concur with almost everything those honourable senators said. Therefore, I will limit my remarks to much less than an hour. After all, what is the use of speaking for so long? There are seven honourable senators in the chamber, two members in the Press Gallery and hardly a soul in the public gallery. The proceedings are not being broadcast. I wonder why honourable senators feel impelled to address the nation for an hour in such circumstances. 
The Australian Democrats are very disappointed with the Human Rights Commission Bill. We welcome the setting up of this Commission as a modest step in the right direction and agree essentially with the thrust of  Senator Missen  's arguments. We disagree with one of  Senator Missen  's arguments and agree with an argument put by  Senator Evans  concerning a Bill of rights. I think that is probably the big point on which  Senator Evans  and  Senator Missen  disagree. They agreed on almost everything else. For many years I have agreed with  Senator Missen  who asked: Does the Bill of rights really produce something that is constructive, real and helpful to human freedoms? I always came to the view that it did not. For example, a Bill might contain words which state that every citizen has a right to good health. What does that mean? It cannot be defined. 
But the more important objection I had to a Bill of rights was that one could argue that what was contained in a Bill of rights was the right of a citizen. But we live in a dynamic and changing society. If some need arose for the preservation of a human right because historical events had changed and certain aspects were not catered for in the Bill of rights, there would be no protection for the individual because of the change of circumstances. For example, automation and computerisation could well render 30 per cent of our work force out of jobs through no fault of its own within the next four years. I changed my mind on this matter when I heard a magnificent lecture- I believe that  Senator Evans  was on the platform with me at the time- by  Mr Justice  Kirby. While fulfilling the non-political role of his position he virtually said that there should be no need for a Bill of rights if certain criteria were being met. He listed the criteria of which I can remember three or four. It was crystal clear to me that those criteria were not being met in our political or social life. Therefore, I changed my mind. In fact, the adopted policy of the Australian Democrats is for the introduction of a Bill of rights. 
One of the criteria which  Mr Justice  Kirby mentioned was that we do not need a Bill of rights if the electorate is informed and active. I wonder whether, in the circumstances of today, the electorate can be informed. There are so many things on which even we, as senators sitting in this chamber or as senators on committees where we have the right to cross-examine public servants cannot be informed ourselves. We cannot be informed ourselves; so what hope has the electorate of being informed? 
The second criterion, as I remember what  Mr Justice  Kirby said, was that a Bill of rights was needed if politicians voted on issues and not according to party direction. Do we really have that situation in the National Parliament? I do not say this in order to make a point against  Senator Puplick,  but at the conclusion of his hour-long speech the other night he issued a rather historic admonition to the Senate- that it is the role and the responsibility of this Parliament to debate and vote on violations of human rights wherever they occur. I hope  Senator Puplick  will forgive me if I do not quote him verbatim but I think he will agree that that is the basic thrust of a sentence he uttered late in his hour-long speech last Thursday night. On that very day, in the morning, he voted against this Parliament, this chamber, voting on the violation of the human rights of human beings in Timor. One wonders about the capacity of this chamber and of this Parliament to comply with  Mr Justice  Kirby 's criterion that politicians should vote on issues as they see them and not vote on party lines. 
The third criterion that  Mr Justice  Kirby mentioned was that every individual, no matter how underprivileged or how lacking in affluence, should have the right to sue, the right to legal action. At the moment in this country that is a joke. My colleague,  Senator Mason,  who recently was abused and defamed in a weekly national journal for an alleged lack of diligence as a senator- he and I were jointly accusedvisited counsel and solicitors on, I think, four or five occasions. The sum of the fees for those four or five visits amounted to several thousand dollars- about $7,000. Justice had its way and the weekly national settled out of court. 
I do not want to canvass that because that is a matter between  Senator Mason  and the people involved. No, it was not worth being abused. If  Senator Puplick  had the guts to outlay $7,000 of his money to preserve his honour, I would respect him more than I do for his action or lack of action in the Senate after stating some fine words last Thursday. Does the right to sue really exist in Australia? After looking at  Mr Justice  Kirby 's criteria, I find that Australia meets none of them at this stage. I now find myself at a point where I disagree with  Senator Missen  and agree with  Senator Evans  on only one issue. It is not that I disagree with what  Senator Evans  said, but I believe that in this debate it would be a pragmatic decision, on balance, to support  Senator Missen  's proposed amendments because to support  Senator Evan's  proposed amendment one would have virtually to start from scratch. I say that in courtesy to  Senator Evans,  whose proposed amendment we respect. 
The main reason we are unhappy and disappointed with the Bill is that it does not contain powers to enforce respect for human rights, or to change any law found to be in contravention of human rights, or to prosecute any person found to be violating human rights. The proposed Commission will be able only to examine legislation, inquire into acts and practices, investigate complaints and then report to the Minister. Such reports must be tabled in the Parliament, but there is no provision for any further action. Therefore, the Commission's function will be purely advisory. The Minister will be free to decide whether to take remedial action; therefore, it will be a political decision. I ask the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  in his response, to deny the charge that any action taken under this Bill must be a political decision. 
That to me is anathema to preserving human rights. If we are to preserve human rights or to prevent violations of human rights, the whole subject must be taken out of the political arena. But this Bill puts it there. For example, if the subject of a complaint is a Commonwealth Act- for instance, the Act relating to the powers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and its violation of someone's rights- it would be equivalent to appealing against the AttorneyGeneral to the Attorney-General. My stating that points up the absurdity of the legislation when it purports to be a protector of human rights. 
It has been argued that the publicity involved in an adverse report is sufficient sanction, as occurs with the Commonwealth Ombudsman or with the Prices Justification Tribunal. I concede that that is a respectable argument with the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Ombudsman. Neither of those bodies has great teeth, but both of them do seem to have some effect, in their reports, in holding back people who want to charge outrageous prices or to do outrageous acts. But, as Churchill once said: 'Beware of the false analogy'. In this case I believe it is a false analogy. What about hotel licensees who refuse to serve Aborigines in their dining rooms, lounges or bars? What about a trade union which refuses membership to Vietnamese refugees? What about the activities of the neo-Nazi fringe groups? Will they be worried about adverse publicity? I would have thought that those were the very groups which would welcome the kind of publicity that the Bill will bring about. They would revel in the publicity. It would add to their popularity and it would allow them to assume the role of" martyrs. 
Worse still, these powers, weak as they are, apply only to the Commonwealth law and to the Australian Capital Territory. I will not go into that issue because  Senator Missen, Senator Evans  and almost every other  speaker  have stated that the Bill is not applicable to 95 per cent of potential breaches of human rights. Where are breaches of human rights taking place today? I will name just a few and I say that the Bill will allow those breaches to go untouched. For example, the Queensland street march law is an outrage to any liberal, whether he belongs to the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party of Australia, the National Party, or any other party in the country. The Queensland legislation is an outrage to any person of liberal thinking. The 
Western Australian public assembly law is similarly outrageous, as is the Queensland and Western Australian industrial legislation. They represent a massive invasion of civil liberties. The Western Australian electoral Act changes will make it very difficult for Aborigines and migrants to cast valid votes. 
Other examples are the allegations made against police in all States and the interception of confidential telegrams from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  to residents of Queensland reserves. There is also the matter of police surveillance of the Minister's departmental officers. I do not know whether all members of the Liberal Party have read or have informed themselves of the matter of interception of telegrams. This was done quite blatantly in Queensland. I quote from the Melbourne  Age  of 8 November, which states: 
The Queensland Government has monitored  cofidential  telegrams from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  to community leaders on State Aboriginal reserves. 
Also State police were used for surveillance of Federal officials visiting reserves. 
Documents leaked from the State Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement show that telegrams from  Senator Chaney  and his Department to the Aboriginal Council at Yarrabah, near Cairns, were read to the State Minister,  Mr Porter,  by State officials. 
That constitutes a massive infringement of civil liberties and of civil rights. Yet that sort of action can be quite untouched by this legislation. All these notorious and controversial issues will be outside the scope of this legislation. They cannot even be investigated by the proposed Commission, nor reported to this Parliament. So why are we wasting so many hours on these Bills? If human rights legislation cannot deal with such cases, what on earth is it for? According to this legislation, the co-operation of the States will be sought. No doubt we can expect the same kind of co-operation as the Commissioner for Community Relations has received, and that was indignant denunciation by the Premiers of Queensland and Western Australia. Worse still, the Minister can make arrangements for a State or Northern Territory Minister to peform the functions of the Human Rights Commission. That power is contained in clause 11(1). Thus the Commission may well be bypassed and powers to investigate, for example, Aboriginal complaints in Queensland could be delegated to the Queensland authorities. What an unthinkable proposition! 
The cognate Bill, the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, can be seen as a comment on the thinking behind the Human Rights Commission Bill. Under the Racial Discrimination 
Act there are powers covering State law. These are also powers to prosecute as a last resort if conciliation fails. The enforcement of this Act will be greatly reduced by subjecting the Commissioner for Community Relations to the direction of the Human Rights Commission and by depriving him of staff. The Human Rights Commission is to be responsible for the very worthy functions of research, education, promoting respect for rights, et cetera, but what use is it if it is not provided with staff? There is no guarantee in this legislation that it will be provided with anything near adequate staff, just as the Commissioner for Community Relations has never been provided with it. The Australian Democrats join  Senator Missen  in rejecting the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill unless it is substantially altered. 
I suspect that the Federal Government has clearly yielded to pressure from the State government of Queensland and Western Australia and perhaps also from right wing organisations. For the record I want to read into  Hansard- on  which note I shall conclude- the frightening number of right wing racial organisations in Australia right now which propagate racial prejudice with the help of massive resources of money from unknown sources and against which this Human Rights Commission will be virtually powerless. They include: The National Socialist Party of Australia; the White Christians League; the Hungarist Movement- the World Association of National Socialist Hungarians; and the Australian League of Rights and its related bodies such as the Christian Institute for Individual Freedom. Why in the name of God these people who disseminate hate always use the name of God or Jesus Christ goes beyond my comprehension, but they always seem to do so. These creatures in the League of Rights who give out this garbage disseminating anti-semitism and racism always seem to invoke the name of  Christianity  somewhere along the line. 
Of course not, but I wish I had some time to read some of the inflammatory propaganda that they put out about people of different colours, different religions and different skins which I would have thought was the anathema of the principles espoused by Jesus Christ.  Senator Sheil,  for whom I have an enormous respect and affection, has challenged me by asking whether I deny these people the right to disseminate that sort of propaganda. I answered his interjection by saying that I do not, but I think there must be a limit. As  Senator Sheil  will well know, I am not notorious for taking a procensorship stance in this country. In fact I think I came under some friendly fire from  Senator Sheil  with regard to liberalising censorship. But I have always said that there is a case for censorship in this country, particularly for the very young. 
In answer to  Senator Sheil's  specific objection I would say that in our imperfect society there is an unanswerable case for preventing organisations such as the League of Rights and all these other twisted people from, say, taking advertisements during children's hour on television saying: 'You must hate Negroes, Jews, Muslims, Catholics or whatever'. That would be unthinkable, and to that extent I believe that there must be some sort of censorship of these kinds of extremist groups in an imperfect society. If we had a perfect society in which every mother and father had children with whom they conversed and discussed these issues, surely we could have all sorts of garbage through the medium of television or propagated to them at any time, but we do not have that sort of society. Australia has come to the situation which is right for the racist, the extremist, the total fruit cake to exploit racial and religious divisions in our midst. 
-I thank  Senator Evans  for his contribution. I conclude on this note. Other bodies related to the League of Rights are: The Voters Policy Association; the Electors Associations; the Australian Heritage Society- rather a quaint name for an avid racist group; LILAC- is not that beautiful?- Ladies in Line Against Communism; and the Conservative Speakers Clubs. Then there are other bodies such as the Immigration Control Association; the Immigration Restriction Council; the British Australian Association; the Ku Klux Klan, Melbourne branch; the Conservative Party (Western Australia) Inc.; Women Against Asian Immigration Committee; Westralian Nationalist Movement; National Australian Association; Truth and Liberty Mission; British-Israel World Federation; and the Children of God. 
Some of the above organisations are well established with a vigorous record of publishing and disseminating extremist material, both white supremacist and anti-semitic. Others have enjoyed a more tenuous existence- forming, merging, reforming, dissolving. At any one time some of them may be inactive, others dormant, while still others may be in formation or in embryo. In 1979 these new stars hit the horizon: 
The Second Front- Jennifer McCallum, Melbourne; the National Front; the Australian National Alliance- 'Audacity'; the National Resistance- 'Advance'; the Divine People Movement, Sydney; the Campaign Against Illegal Immigrants, Perth; Awake Australians Campaign to Help Save South Africa; Zimmunism; Rights for Whites- that is a cute one; and One Law for All. I can go on by reading into  Hansard  some of the vicious and malicious sewer-like material that these twisted minds give out. The thing that makes me sad as I speak on this Bill is that the emasculation of the Racial Discrimination Act will do nothing to fight the garbage, the hatred, that is being put out by these twisted people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
Did a severe shortage of Avgas, combined with unreliability of supply, cause the Melbourne-based company, Bizjets, to abandon passenger services to Smithton, Queenstown and Strahan on the Tasmanian West Coast; if so, will the Minister have this matter investigated, with a view to finding a solution to this problem. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Senate is debating a motion of censure of the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle. The motion was moved by  Senator Grimes  and is supported by members of the Australian Labor Party. They want  Senator Guilfoyle  censured because she allegedly misled the Senate over answers given to questions concerning a raid and subsequent &lt; vents involving the Commonwealth Police and certain people connected with alleged frauds over social services in Sydney, with particular reference to a court case that is now proceeding in that city. If one took a literal interpretation of the Westminster system one could find some grounds to support the Labor Party on this matter. The Minister had the grace and the honesty today virtually to admit that over a time she had given some answers in this place concerning this matter with which subsequent events cannot be reconciled. I think the Opposition has made out that case fairly and without malice. I think that the Minister has conceded to a point that, if that be true, she acted in good faith. 
In the next few minutes- I will not take long- I want to develop an argument about how absurd it would be if not only the national Parliament but also the State parliaments always applied a literal translation of the Westminster system to Ministers in this country. I think that we would be in the position that hardly any Minister would hold office for more than a month or so if the matter were taken to its literal and absurd conclusion. That is why I say that the Australian Democrats will be supporting the Government on this motion. Certainly the action of a Minister in knowingly misleading the Parliament is a ground for censure. Let us remember that if a Minister is censured it would entail his automatic resignation. Nobody in this place would disagree with that. But I would go further and say that if  z  Minister does not show proper diligence in pursuing information given to him or her by his oi her Department there also would be grounds foi censure. If a Minister is inept or lazy and just accepts what the Department lines up for him or her without checking and then produces that information in Parliament and misleads it, certainly that is an offence against the Westminster system and worthy of censure. 
The view of the Australian Democrats is that the Minister has not done either of these things and, with great respect to Opposition members, they have not produced evidence that she has. Let me put this down in its naked form. The Australian Labor Party's charge must mean that the Minister has mislead the Parliament for one of two reasons. The first is that she is stupid or inept, and there is no suggestion along that line. In fact, complimentary remarks have been made about the Minister's ability and integrity. The only other reason is that she has wilfully and meaningfully hidden facts or told untruths. There is no evidence that she has wilfully or meaningfully hidden facts.  Senator Gietzelt  just alleged that through wilful evasion or equivocation she has hidden facts and misled the Parliament. I would go as far as  Senator Gietzelt  and say that if a Minister has by wilful evasion or equivocation hidden facts or misled the Parliament that also is grounds for censure. But, again with respect to  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Gietzelt,  the Australian Democrats do not believe that the Opposition has sustained that case. 
-I thank  Senator Rae  for his interjection, which I am pleased to have on the record. On many occasions in recent years Ministers have been under attack. It started, I think, in true force when the Liberal and Country parties went out of office in 1972. 1 can remember arguing in shadow cabinet about matters concerning  Dr Cairns.  Certainly he misled the Parliament, and certainly he was forced to resign. But I am as sure now as I was then that he did not mean to mislead the Parliament. But he had, and he went. Since then, various other Ministers have been under attack. Even after I had left the Liberal Party I strongly defended- I will not comment on the fact that I seemed to be the only one who did-  Mr Lynch  and  Senator Withers  over their sackings, which I believed were totally unjustified. We are now reaching a stage where it seems to be good politics to attack Ministers and personalities. 
Let me show how a literal interpretation of the Westminster system, if taken to its ultimate, would lead to an absurd situation. The Westminster system, as I understand its literal interpretation, means that if a department or a departmental officer makes a blunder or a series of blunders the responsible Minister should resign. Let me give an example. Have the Minister for Education in Victoria and his Deparment blundered? Have they committed a series of blunders? Has the Minister's Labor counterpart in New South Wales committed an equal number of blunders?  Senator Guilfoyle  today is charged about certain events in Sydney. Let as assume, hypothetically, that a technical offence is involved. How much greater is the offence of the Ministers for Education in Victoria and New South Wales who have been conned by their departmental heads for five years to such an extent that in each State there are now 4,000 fully trained teachers, trained at the taxpayers expense at about $20,000 a year, for whom there are no jobs. They are working as lift drivers, are unemployed or whatever. Is that not a blunder or a series of blunders by a department? That is a criminal waste of public money. Hundreds of millions of dollars have been wasted by departmental ineptitude. If we followed the Westminster system we would demand the resignation of those Ministers. Is anybody doing that? No. There seems to be no touch of scandal. Maybe it is not juicy enough to hit a Minister for sheer incompetence. 
I am not very bright but I can look up a year book and find out how many children of a particular age will need primary and secondary schooling five or 10 years from now. I can look up the same year book for the expected birth and death rates and estimate reasonably well how many children will need education five years from now. I do not think that even I could make the mistake of inducing 4,000 young people to go into the noblest of professions only to find at the end of their training that they are unable to work as teachers. That is departmental ineptitude. We should, if we are to be consistent in following the Westminster system, say that those Ministers in Victoria and New South Wales ought also to be censured and resign. 
I suppose that some honourable senators in this chamber would state that the Treasury of this country has done an outstanding job since 1977.(1 would not have thought so. I would have thought that the performance of  Mr John  Stone and the Treasury officials who advise the Government has been near catastrophic. Unemployment has increased, there has been no marked effect on overcoming inflation and no planning has been undertaken for the future. But does anybody in this chamber or the other chamber say that John Howard should resign under the Westminster system because his Department has blundered? 
If the Opposition accepts that proposition, why does it not move a motion of censure of him for that? Is that not a greater crime than the crime that  Senator Guilfoyle  has been charged with? Let me look at something even more serious. A Prime Minister, while in office, makes certain promises about the indexation of wages and pensions. He openly makes those promises in the Parliament and then brings in legislation to break them. Is that not behaviour worthy of censure? Is that not an offence against the Westminster system? We do not seem to do anything about those sorts of things or, if we do, the party system seems to beat us. Let me express some sympathy, without being patronising, to the Opposition, the members of the Australian Labor Party, for bringing this matter up today. This is the new ball game which they are playing. I guess that in party politics we have to play it. Today, if a crisis blows up anywhere in Australian politics, modern day politics demand that we do not worry about the officers. It is a case of getting the Minister. That is the name of the game- get the Minister, not the department. It was a fairly well orchestrated exercise today. For the wrong reasons I was pleased to see today that the Press gallery discovered that a Senate exists in this place. I have never seen so many heavies up there since I have been in this chamber. 
-I am just a lightweight. The heavies have been reported on. 
-To be fair, I am about to come to that. The Press people are up there. I absolutely agree with Bob Hawke. When something like this occurs, they are up there like vultures to get a bit of din, a bit of sensationalism, to hit the front pages with tomorrow. 

 - Senator Evans can make his own judgment- he is entitled to do so- as to the importance of this motion today lined up against the other events that are happening in this country, one of which I will mention in a moment. This is a long range plan. As  Senator Gietzelt  properly reminds me, this technique was magnificently developed by the Liberal-Country Party Government from 1972 to 1975. It was said then, during those three years, in the shadow Cabinet: 'Start this caper and it will rebound on you forever if ever you get back to office'. It was said to the shadow Ministers then, some of whom have suffered from it since. 
-That is precisely what I am saying. I do not think that all of us have to say that because they established that tradition it is right for it to be carried on today. As I said perviously- if honourable senators look at  Hansard  they will see it- I can understand, and sympathise with the Australian Labor Party taking part in this kind of exercise today. Now what has happened? The present Government has found that the wheel is turning. Already, because of this technique, several Ministers, or former Ministers,  Mr Garland, Senator Withers, Mr Eric  Robinson,  Mr Lynch, Mr Sinclair, Mr Fife  and now Margaret Guilfoyle, have been placed under some sort of cloud. I believe that this is devastating in the eyes of the electorate. If one considers the reasons for the Whitlam Government's defeat in 1975-1 have thought about this and have discussed it with many people- was it because it made a catastrophic mess of government, because all the policies which it introduced were shocking and dreadful? I do not believe that. I believe that many of them, or most of them, were first class progressive policies. 
Why was the Labor Government thundered out in 1975? It was simply because it had been touched. It had been scoured with scandal, whether it was justified or not. As much as some of us here might deplore this kind of a tactic, it certainly pays off politically for one political party. I am mentioning this because I wish to ask a question of the Senate: Is it in the national good? It is fantastic for party politicking, but I wonder if it is in the national good. Let me illustrate why it is not. I know that I am going to bore the Senate about what might be called an obsession that I have about heroin trafficking. I am going to take that risk and make this point in conclusion. 
-It is very relevant. I am asking whether this tactic is in the national good. Last week the Williams report was brought down. I will not say anything about the report now except that I am disgusted with its contents and the way in which it was formed. Certain criticisms were made and the former Federal Narcotics Bureau was denigrated. What did the Opposition do? If the Liberal Party had been in Opposition it would have done exactly the same. The Opposition was not worried about the substantive point in that report. It went straight to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Fife.  It is politics to say: 'Let us get Fife. Let us cloud him with some scandal. Let us say that he did things'. By doing that the Government had to bury the former Federal Narcotics Bureau. Last week both this side of the House and the other side of the House took away the only front line enemy against the heroin syndicates in this country, the Federal Narcotics Bureau. With what was it replaced? It was replaced by the Australian Federal Police. The incongruity about this is that last Thursday all members of the Australian Labor Party were bucketing the Federal Narcotics Bureau and, by inference, eulogising the Australian Federal Police. Yet yesterday the Opposition wanted a judicial inquiry into the activities and antics of the Commonwealth Police, known now as the Australian Federal Police. I just make this comment in passing: I hope that both parties in this Parliament know what they have done to the heroin syndicates who now are making $700m a year in this country. For 18 months there will be no specialised forces to face them. 

 - Senator Cavanagh says that he does not believe it. After what he has said today and after what his colleagues have said about the Commonwealth Police, does he feel happy with this group of dishevelled, inept and untrained people in that force who are fantastic at playing power politics interdepartmentally but who are hopeless at law enforcement? 

 - Senator Evans never ceases to pay me the compliment of interjecting on my speech. I thank him for it. I have made my point. In conclusion I will just reiterate that the Australian Democrats, for the reasons I have stated, find absolutely no evidence produced by the Australian Labor Party that  Senator the Hon. 
Margaret Guilfoyle has acted other than with total propriety, total integrity and total courage. We express that confidence in her and for that reason we will be supporting the Government on this censure motion. 
-I ask the Attorney-General a question which, while not being confined to his area of responsibility, is one which he ought to be able to answer because he is the AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth and a member of the Cabinet which made the decision about which I want to question him. It concerns the rather extraordinary action of the Government in disbanding a law enforcement agency, the Federal Narcotics Bureau, virtually overnight. I ask: Was the Bureau disbanded on 8 November virtually overnight? What arrangements are to be made for the continuance of the investigations which were then in train into large-scale impending heroin importations? Does it mean that months of painstaking surveillance and investigation will be wasted? Is it not true that there will be a vacuum of between 12 months and 18 months before efficient pick-up of that surveillance and investigation will be able to be resumed, a fact apparently missed by the majority of the Press gallery in this place? Does the Government really believe that the Australian Federal Police currently has the resources to handle such a mammoth task? Can it be expected that the Australian Federal Police will continue these investigations with the same devastating finesse and efficiency as was exercised with regard to the alleged social security frauds in Sydney? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
Did a discussion paper prepared for the South Australian State Council of the Liberal Party in Adelaide contain the suggestion that candidates for trade union elections should have their political party affiliations included on ballot papers; if so, what action, if any, is proposed to extend this principle to Federal and State elections. 
by leave- Certain news reports this morning have stated that the Australian Democrats failed to vote on a clause of the Human Rights Commission Bill last evening. I believe that this misrepresents our position for the following reasons: Firstly,  Senator Mason  was, and is, suffering from a severe stomach upset which he contracted in Darwin two weeks ago. He went home to bed after the dinner adjournment. He did so at my request. Secondly, I remained in the chamber until the conclusion of the debate on the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill. About then, 10.20 p.m., I had a brief conversation with the Government Whip,  Senator Baume,  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  in the anteroom adjoining the chamber. I asked  Senator Baume  about the Government's intentions for the remainder of the evening. I understood him to say that the Government would proceed with the Human Rights Commission Bill for about half an hour that evening. I am not suggesting that he misled me or tried to mislead me, but that was my genuine understanding. In any event, there was no mention by him that the adjournment motion would be negatived. I naturally assumed from this conversation that the Senate would adjourn as scheduled according to the Notice Paper at 1 1 p.m. I listened to the debate in my room until seven minutes to 1 1 p.m. when it became clear that there would be no vote by the time of the scheduled adjournment. On arriving at my motel I heard on the parliamentary radio broadcast that the Government had negatived the motion for the adjournment of the Senate and was proceeding with the Bill. At no time did I receive any notice from the Government that it intended to proceed. I deeply regret my absence in the circumstances of this vote. I apologise to the Senate, but would respectfully ask that in future the Government might pay the Australian Democrats and the Australian Labor Party the courtesy of informing us if the rules and times of sitting are to be changed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
Are the orchardists in the Goulburn Valley being restricted in the use of the National Employment and Training Scheme for employing youth to train as fruit tree pruners; if so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 November 1979: 
1 ) Did the Australian Wool Corporation borrow $40m from the Chase Manhattan Bank; if so, does the Corporation still owe this amount. 
Have the wool producers of Australia ever been notified of this matter; if so, (a) how, and (b) when. 
by leave- The Australian Democrats are very sympathetic with the purpose of the amendment moved by  Senator Colston  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. We must say that we stick to the principle enunciated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  It would be a terrible time if the Federal Government detailed every cent for every particular purpose. As much as I am reluctant not to limit the powers of the Queensland Government- this is an opportunity so to do- we would very much support the principle enunciated by  Senator Chaney.  Therefore, we will be voting with the Government. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Colston's amendment)  be added. 
The Attorney-General will be pleased to know that my question to him is easy and non-party political. It concerns that non-controversial body, the National Women's Advisory Council, which recently delivered its first report concerning the need for Commonwealth legislation to protect women from domestic violence. The Attorney will notice that that report recommends the bringing down by this Government of specific legislation and it draws the Government's attention to the United Kingdom Domestic Violence and Matrimonial Proceedings Act, which gives police power to restrain the offending party from molesting the other partner or children, and which in fact can exclude that party from the matrimonial home or part thereof. Will the Attorney give consideration to introducing such legislation into the Australian Parliament? 
I will speak very briefly because the Australian Federal Police (Consequential Amendments) Bill is a technical Bill. All it does is virtually convert the former Commonwealth Police into the Australian Federal Police. In acknowledging that fact of life I want to make one or two comments. I have been the lone voice in this Parliament that has despaired of the destruction of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. I have said, and I say again, that it was one of the most efficient law enforcement agencies of its kind in the world. It was destroyed by Public Service internecine warfare led by people associated with the Commonwealth police. We are now left with a vacuum in relation to who is to fight the organised crime that imports drugs into this country. I have asked several Ministers this question and have not been furnished with an answer. 
I find an incongruity, without being provocative to  Senator Gietzelt,  in that on the one hand he said he supports and supported, as his party did, the massacre of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. By inference that means he supports the Australian Federal Police engaging in the war against narcotics. Yet he and his party, quite properly and rightly, have mounted a massive campaign against the efficiency and the integrity of the Australian Federal Police in this place in recent weeks; and that does disturb me. 
However, I accept the inevitable, as one of the 64 senators and 124 other members of Parliament in the other place, that I am a lone voice in saying it was one of the great tragedies of this country that the war against drug trafficking was virtually abandoned for 18 months when the Federal Narcotics Bureau was disbanded. I have said before that I believe the new head of this police force,  Sir Colin  Woods, whom this Bill virtually installs in that position by its change of name, is a magnificent man. I am less than sanguine about the three deputies who are under him, as I am about the judgment of the former Commissioner Davis who now advises the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  on Commonwealth police matters. 
I am a little disturbed from what I have read about  Sir Colin  Woods. Although he is a magnificent person, in the United Kingdom he looked at his role as a policeman rather as being a political trouble-shooter, a public relations person who could keep politicians and public servants quiet. This is not a denigration of him; every public service needs that kind of top man. I am very disturbed that he would allow the former Commonwealth Police, now the Australian Federal Police, to operate under the three lieutanants who remain. Having said that and having fought this long battle and lost ignominiously, I pledge the support of the Australian Democrats to the Australian Federal Police in their war against organised crime in this country and I wish them good luck. As from tonight, they will have no further criticism from me on past performances. But let  Sir Colin  Woods know that we will be looking at his future performance and the performance of his Federal Police with great perspicacity. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
Was the sum in excess of $1 lm distributed by voluntary agencies as emergency relief in the past year. 
Are the resources of these agencies exhausted, while demand continues to increase. 
Will the $'/4m allocated in the 1979-80 Budget be sufficient to alleviate this situation. 
What further action is proposed to meet this emergency. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Will the Government consider making the advertising of tobacco and alcohol no longer tax deductible, in view of the cost to the community resulting from the use of these products. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
1 ) Is the low level of the Ternary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS) allowance a significant cause of tertiary students abandoning their studies because of economic hardship. 
To what extent has the present unemployment situation affected the ability of students to supplement the TEAS allowance with part-time jobs. 
Is there evidence to show that part-time employment, with consequent reduced study time, is the cause of failure among tertiary students. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) How many country telephone exchanges have waiting lists for new subscribers. 
What effect does this situation have on the efforts of country towns to attract new businesses, and what steps are being taken to enlarge those country telephone exchanges which are unable to meet the demand for telephone services. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
What action is proposed by the Government, in view of the serious allegations which have been made about the unsatisfactory distribution of aid in East Timor: (a) to ensure better distribution of future consignments of Australian aid once they reach Dili; and (b) to take precautions at least equivalent to those taken in respect of Kampuchea, to ensure quick, fair and impartial distribution of aid to those for whom it is intended, and to minimise improper diversions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Has the Hungarian ethnic minority in Romania been subjected to various forms of discrimination and harassment, including attempts to wipe out its distinctive language and culture; if so, what action is proposed by the Minister to protest to the Romanian Government over this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
How many applications are currently (as at 19 November 1979) on waiting lists for public housing, and what is the estimated average waiting time, in each State and Territory. 
What are the comparable figures for the past two years. 
What is the estimated effect on these figures of the reduction in Federal funding for public housing in the 1978-79 and 1979-80 Federal Budgets. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Will the Minister consider: 
abolishing the prohibition on importing dual (metric and non-metric) measuring devices; and 
permitting local manufacturers to resume their production in view of the continuing demand for them and the problems caused to manufacturers by their non-availability. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Are unemployment benefits immediately cancelled when recipients take on a short term skills training program at their own expense; if so: (a) why; (b) how does this accord with the expressed policy of the Minister of Employment and Youth Affairs to reduce the gap between the needs of employers and the lack of training of the unemployed; and (c) will the Minister take immediate steps to have the situation rectified so that an unemployed person receiving benefits will continue to receive those benefits whilst undergoing short training courses and not be persecuted because of his initiative. 
