I rise to support the motion before the Chair. Before doing so I should like to join with my colleagues in congratulating you,  Mr President,  on your election to your high office which I am sure you will discharge with dignity and impartiality. I should also like to congratulate  Senator Webster  upon being elected as  Chairman  of Committees and to congratulate the other speakers who have contributed for the first time to the debate in the Senate today. 
In the last 18 months or so most commentators have' observed that we live in dramatic political times in Australia. We have had 2 elections in 1 8 months and, if I may express a private view, the second of those elections was perhaps logically necessary to convince some honourable senators in this chamber that the wish of the Australian people as expressed in 1972 for change in our community and in our society generally still existed strongly in the minds of the Australian people. The Party of which I am a member has formed a Government which is committed to change in our society, and of course change can never be painless. In the last 18 months, from certain sections of our community we have heard evidence of the pain which is being experienced by those who feel themselves threatened by the changes which the Australian people regard as necessary. Whether we be Opposition senators in this chamber or ordinary citizens in the community, our capacity to adapt to change will determine our future viability as a nation. 
I shall refer to 4 areas of the GovernorGeneral's Speech which indicate the Government's concern for change. These are areas in which change is taking place, whether this Parliament or this Senate agrees with it or not. The first of those areas is the industrial relations field. In the industrial relations field in Australia we are moving gradually from a compulsory arbitration system, which was revered and admired in other countries many years ago but which in the last few years has been subjected to numerous pressures in many instances, to a system of collective bargaining which involves the community in social change of an important kind. The legislation relating to the amalgamation of industrial organisations and to industrial agreements which has come before this Senate and been rejected, and which will again come before this Senate, refers to areas in which the Government's policy recognises the changes which are taking place in our society's activities. 
The second area is that of health insurance. Last year the Australian people were subjected to what was sometimes described as the great health debate. It continued for many months. It revolved around the Government's program which had been well researched and well considered and which was opposed by a party which had no alternative health insurance program to offer to the Australian people- and even at this stage that party has no viable health insurance program to offer to the Australian people. The important point I make about the health insurance program and the changes which are taking place in the industrial relations field is simply that in both areas the Government's policies represent an enlargement of the freedoms of the Australian people. They remove the fear of the consequences of ill health for a very substantial proportion of our community and they allow freedom of association in industrial organisations. 
The field of education was also dealt with in  His  Excellency's Speech. The Government which came into office in 1972 inherited a situation in which there was gross inequality in educational opportunity in Australia. Although the Government's program may be criticised in detail, it represents a massive commitment to the abolition of the inequalities in educational opportunity which existed throughout Australia. Again it is a question of raising the options and the freedoms of masses of the Australian people who cannot afford economically to make decisions which benefit their own children and who have to rely on the system which is provided by the State. 
The fourth area to which I refer relates to the national estate. This again was a subject to which reference was made in  His  Excellency's Speech. The Government's proposals recognise that the Australian people have a right to enjoy this country's historical heritage and its unique environment, and that that right should not be limited by the interests of particular groups in our community who are concerned, for private gain, to take those rights away from the Australian people. Again in the last few years in Australia we have changed from a society which was dedicated to the idea of growth at any price to a society which is suddenly realising that there are more important things in the lives of the ordinary people of Australia than the building of vast city blocks and the growth of cities at the rate which has occurred. Our society has realised that in Australia there are things which we value and which all the Australian people should have the opportunity to share. All these matters to which I have referred involve change. They also involve, in their own way, an enlargement of the freedoms of the Australian people. 
In the last few months there has been much talk about threats to the freedom of individual Australians, but there has been little analysis of the meaning of the word 'freedom'. Under the government which we had in this country only 2 years ago people were free to make Sim on the share market overnight by inside trading. In order to give an indication of the freedom that we were guaranteed in this country under the previous government one needs only to refer to the denial of freedom to conscripts who were sent to Vietnam. That was the sort of freedom that existed in practice 2 years ago under the previous government. But there are other concepts involved in freedom, and I will briefly refer to them. First of all, there is the concept of civil liberties. While much is said about freedom, after 18 months of Labor Government not many people can really point the finger and say that this Government has in any way detracted from the civil liberties of Australian citizens. Secondly, I believe that we, as a Government, have tried to instill into our community the idea that there is such a thing as economic freedom in terms of freedom from unemployment, freedom to make decisions about where you send your children to school and freedom to make decisions about what you do with your leisure- all sorts of things which flow from a more equitable distribution of wealth in our society. There is freedom from the blight of unemployment and there is the question of equality of opportunity in education. These are new and real freedoms which the Government has started to give to the Australian people in the last 18 months. 
When we talk about freedom, let us look at what the concept of freedom really means in real terms for the Australian people and not for certain selected individuals in our society. There is another area in which there has been an important change in our society and in which very few changes have taken place. I refer to the Constitution which provides the framework of government in Australia. It is sometimes stated by Opposition spokesmen that in some peculiar way which has never been explained to my satisfaction, the existing federal structure in Australia provides a bulwark for the freedom of the individual. I have never heard any evidence for that assertion, and I look forward to hearing it in this chamber because whatever we do we must be sure that the democratic institutions and the framework of government in Australia reflect the aspirations of the Australian people and allow the members of this chamber and of the other chamber to act in a way which fulfils the aspirations of the Australian people in the 1970s. 
I have sometimes heard Opposition senators speaking of the Australian Constitution with the reverence which an antique salesman sometimes displays when he is trying to sell an old chair. The point is always made that because of the age of the chair its value is so much greater. While that may apply to furniture it cannot apply to the framework of government in Australia in the 1970s. In the last 12 months 5 referenda were brought before the Australian people by the Government. All were opposed by the Opposition parties for motives which seemed to me to be less than elevating if one analyses the requirements of a modern constitution in a country such as ours. It is significant that in 1959 two of those proposed changes were recommended by an all-party committee which reviewed the Constitution. By 1972, some 13 years of LiberalCountry Party Government later, none of those changes had taken place although they were regarded as essential by that committee in 1 959. 
When one talks about the Constitution one must consider it as a framework of government not only for the protection of liberty but also for the efficient management of our society. In 1959 the Constitutional Review Committee referred to the enormous costs involved in High Court litigation arising from problems associated with sections of the Constitution which were considered appropriate in 1 90 1 but which are no longer appropriate in 1974. I point to this matter as another area of change with which I believe we should all be concerned. 
Last night a distinguished Australian, speaking to members of this chamber and to others, made the very important comment that parliamentary government seemed to be under attack in many places throughout the world. That is true indeed. The reasons given for attacks on parliamentary systems of government were largely external to the systems themselves. One thing we must be vigilant to avoid in Australia is an attack on parliamentary institutions which would render them unable to fulfil their responsibilities to the Australian people. If we are not able to adopt a flexible framework of government, if we are not able to approach constitutional issues on the basis of assessing questions as matters of national importance and with mutual goodwill, then we will be in grave difficulty in preserving the parliamentary institutions in Australia. It is sometimes said that efficiency in government is not so important as the protection of individual liberties. It is sometimes put that those are contrary concepts; that if one has an efficient government it follows that it must therefore be a government which is not concerned with the liberty of the individual. That has been put as an argument in defence of the existing federal structure in Australia. It is, of course, a structure which has served us reasonably well over the past 73 years or so, but in the 1 970s we must surely examine whether it is going to do that for us in the future. We cannot succeed in ensuring both efficiency in government and the well-being and liberty of the people of Australia if, in 1974, we are not concerning ourselves with issues of the 1 980s as well with the structure of government which was laid down in 1901. 

 Mr President, I am grateful for the opportunity to address the chamber. When coming to a new place one often feels doubt about the accumulated wisdom of many years and whether one should make observations which may appear forthright. I commend the motion to you. 
-Has the Minister for Customs and Excise seen the recent Press report claiming that dumping duty on imported razor blades will not be applied? Over the years dumping duty has been applied to a significant number of items. Is the application of such a duty continued indefinitely or is it revised after a time? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister seen a report in today's 'Sun' which claims that at least 20 major films are planned to be produced before the end of the year? Is it true that the Australian Council for the Arts, through the Australian Film Institute, is responsible for this boom in production? If so, can the Minister say what role the Australian Film Development Corporation undertakes? 
-Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the House whether all applicants for permanent employment in the Australian Public Service are subjected to an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation security check, irrespective of the nature of their proposed employment? Do such checks involve inquiry as to whether the person concerned has had radical political associations in the past? If such checks are conducted by ASIO, will the Minister tell the House what justification there is for the continuation of this practice? 
I rise to support the Health Insurance Bill. I am pleased that at the conclusion of his speech  Senator Sheil  began to talk about health insurance which is, I understand, the subject of the debate. During the course of his contribution he talked about a great variety of other subjects which may be of concern to certain medical practitioners but they are not relevant to the topic before us at the moment, which is a health insurance scheme. In opening this debate on behalf of the Opposition  Senator Guilfoyle  began by referring to an actuarial report obtained from E. S. Knight and Co., of Melbourne, a very well-known firm of actuaries. The firm is particularly well-known to the legal profession in Melbourne and is very highly regarded by it. I think it is common knowledge amongst lawyers in Melbourne that you go to E. S. Knight and Co., if you have a damages case for somebody and the facts are not good. If you have a bad case you go to that company for actuarial assistance. I suggest that this is what the Opposition did through the agency of the Australian Medical Association on this occasion. 
Any actuarial assessment depends on the information given to the actuary. If one examines that actuarial report, or what is available of it, one will see, firstly, that to the extent that the cost increases which are estimated in relation to the Government's scheme are purely inflationary they would apply equally as well to the existing scheme. Secondly, the report of that company was based on projections of high utilisation of the health service, and no doubt those projections were supplied by the AMA. To say the least, they are highly speculative projections. In any event, an actuarial report of that kind is open to a great variety of criticisms unless one knows the exact information given to the actuary. 
I am slightly critical of this selective use in this House of the services of an actuary. For example, has any actuarial assessment been made of the escalating costs of the existing health scheme in this country? Was one ever made in the past during a period of Liberal-Country Party Government? Was one ever made at the instigation of the AMA when the Liberal-Country Party Government existed? When the Fill was ordered in 1963 was any actuarial assessment made of the escalating cost of that project? When Australia went into the Vietnam war in 1 965 was any actuarial assessment made of the escalating cost of that project? The answer to all those questions is 'no'. The Vietnam war was not a health scheme of concern to the Australian people; it was a death scheme of a completely different variety which was not costed and the costs of which have never been given to this House. All that, of course, is now hopefully forgotten but today we have the assistance of actuaries to look at the Government's health insurance program. 
I am not saying that the cost of a health scheme is not a very important matter but it has not been neglected by the Government. 1 refer the Senate to the introductory portion of the Government's White Paper entitled 'The Australian Health Insurance Program' which was presented in November 1973. Without reading the relevant section in any detail may I make the point that the great emphasis of that introduction is on the escalating cost of health services in Australia, the escalating cost of health services throughout the world, and on the need to provide a scheme on which the Government can keep an eye from a financial point of view. I want to quote from page 2 of the White Paper where it states: 
This year health services will cost more than $2,000m. This is 5.3 per cent of gross domestic product; in other words, over $5 in every $100 of the wealth produced by our nation in a year goes to these services. Moreover, the cost is increasing at such a rate that it will double every five to seven years. If unchecked, it could reach 12 per cent of gross domestic product, or $12 in every $ 100, in the next 25 years or so. The Government has a responsibility to ensure that any growth in health costs is justified. It must establish that any of this growing cost is not due to avoidable waste, extravagance or inefficient methods of delivering or financing health services. At the same time it is determined not to do this by allowing a decline in the quality of care. Indeed, it aims to improve services. 
The cost of health care in Australia as it is projected into the future has been a prime concern throughout the documents published by the Government in relation to its health insurance scheme. The Government has been aware of the situation in Canada and other countries where they also have escalating health costs and these matters have been taken into account in the preparation of the legislation which is now before the Senate. 
I do not think that is what the Government pretends. If the honourable senator thoroughly reads the White Paper I think she will find that the 1.35 per cent will cover it for the first year, if I recollect correctly. I want to deal with one other aspect which was raised by honourable senators on the Opposition side. Throughout the debate so far Opposition senators have referred to the Health Insurance Bill as a nationalised health scheme. Whether that is loose terminology, a bad habit or some sort of pay-off for the $431,000 which the AMA spent last year on opposing the Government's health scheme I do not know, but it is not correct and every honourable senator in this chamber knows that it is not correct. After all, we are here to discuss a health insurance scheme for the whole of the Australian people. We are not here to project the anxiety neuroses of a certain paranoid section of the medical profession, and that is where those expressions begin. I refer to those expressions describing the Government's scheme as a nationalised health scheme, socialised medicine, and so on. Even the shadow minister in another place disowned the use of this terminology, during the course of the debate last year, to describe the Government's scheme. 
The facts about the Government's scheme are quite well-known. They were most eloquently expressed, as usual, by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  in his second reading speech. The purpose of the scheme is to introduce in this country a health insurance system which is equitable, fair and efficient. Those facts ought to be known by everybody in Australia because in 1973 we had what is euphemistically called the 'the great health debate' which went on from April 1973, at least, until the end of the year. The merits of the Green Paper and subsequently the White Paper were discussed throughout the community. In 1972, prior to the election in December that year, the Government put before the people its health program for Australia. It was endorsed by the people in December 1972. Throughout 1973 it was debated in the debate to which I have referred. 
The Government's scheme was a response to one very important fact. It was a response to the widespread recognition in this community, amongst doctors and others, that the scheme as it existed at that time was a ramshackle scheme. The evidence for that statement is supplied in the report of the Nimmo Committee, the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, which was appointed by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1969 to look into the question of the efficiency and adequacy of health services in Australia. Briefly, that report said that the system was unnecessarily complex and inequitable, that the benefits were inadequate, that it imposed hardship on certain sections of the community and that the private health funds had very high operating costs. In essence, they were the findings of the Nimmo Committee. That report was commissioned by the previous Government. From 1969 to 1972 nothing was done about those criticisms which were made as findings by the Nimmo Committee. That inertia is typical of the myopic social vision which Opposition senators display and which may be a case for making spectacles a free item in the national health insurance scheme. 
There are other important facts to which the Nimmo Committee did not refer. The first is that in Australia approximately one million people are not covered by health insurance benefits.  Senator Sheil  began his speech by saying that the figure was much lower. Later he said that the figure may be one million. If one wants authority for the proposition that approximately one million Australians are uninsured, it can be found in paragraph 8 of the background statement of the Liberal Party of Australia Committee on Social Security, Health and Welfare. It states: 
It must be remembered that although only 8 per cent remain uncovered, it represents about one million people. These people can be grouped into 3 categories: First, the wealthy group who consciously opt not to insure, and when medical and hospital expenses are incurred simply pay the total bills. Secondly, there are the poor, some newly arrived migrants, who cannot understand English or the complexities of the health scheme. 
The report refers to a third group which it calls the middle class punters. The Government estimated that the number of uninsured people was approximately one million. The Liberal Party background paper agrees with that figure. One million people not covered by health insurance is a lot of people in a country with the pretensions which we have of being a modern and an efficient democracy. When we remember that approximately 60 per cent of the one million people who are not covered are migrants, I think the problem becomes one of even greater social significance because the majority of those migrants come from countries which have compulsory health insurance schemes. They are not used to coming to a modern, progressive country such as Australia which has no compulsory and comprehensive health insurance scheme. That problem is a very grave social one for this country, and I ask Opposition senators whether they really care about that very large group of migrants who are not covered by health insurance. If they care, what have they offered since the Nimmo Committee report was presented and what do they offer now to those people? 
The debate on health insurance last year was a long and a confusing one in which the Government's policy on health was grossly misrepresented. In some ways it was an abuse of the democratic process rather than an attempt to embrace the democratic process. Few constructive suggestions were heard from the Opposition during that debate. Now, the third time that this legislation is before the Senate, Opposition senators behave like a collection of King Canutes dispossessed of their kingdom but still determined to turn back the tide. Look at the criticisms which were made in the so-called great debate in 1 973. Firstly, it was said that the Government's scheme was reprehensible because it was compulsory. What sort of society provides that a person who rides a motor cycle must wear a safety helmet to stop himself from getting hurt, that a person in a car must wear a seat belt to stop himself from getting hurt- these safety measures were introduced by State Liberal governments- and that a person must have an X-ray to see whether he has tuberculosis but does not require people who suffer disabilities in terms of ill health or injury to insure themselves? What is the virtue of non-compulsion in that situationin a society which is compulsive in those other ways to which I have referred? 
Secondly, it was said that the Labor Government's health insurance scheme would result in gross overuse of medical services. There is very little evidence to support that statement. The only evidence which has been adduced on that point relates to the province of Alberta in Canada. The figures clearly suggest that in the first year of compulsory health insurance in that Canadian province there was a marginal overuse of the health services. In the second year the overuse lapsed considerably. By the third year of that scheme's existence the level of use of medical services was almost back to the point at which it started. I believe that is the only documented material relating to the level of overuse of any compulsory health service. Thirdly, it was said- I mention this point because it is still being saidthat the Government's scheme was a nationalised health service, socialised medicine and so on. 
Fourthly, it was said that the Government's scheme removes from the patient the freedom of choice. It was said also that the scheme would destroy the doctor-patient relationship, whatever that may be. Senators, by virtue of their position in the community and by virtue of their backgrounds, may enjoy very happy doctor-patient relationships with their medical practitioners. One has only to speak to anybody who does not enjoy such a privileged position to find that the much vaunted doctor-patient relationship leaves very much to be desired. The question of the absence of freedom of choice under the Government's scheme was recognised by the shadow Minister,  Mr Chipp.  In an article in the Melbourne 'Age' of Thursday, 4 October 1973, he is reported as saying: 
And I say in fairness that under the Labor scheme, notwithstanding what has been said, you will be able to go to the doctor of your choice in so far as the general practitioner is concerned . . . 
They were the sort of criticisms which were being made of this scheme by the Opposition during 1973. They have not changed much in July 1 974, apart from the production of an actuarial report. 
Other criticisms were levelled at the schemecriticisms by pressure groups and vested interests. There was the influence of the General Practitioners Society, the more paranoid section of the medical profession, which had a very strong influence on the AMA which was constantly accused of not leading the push in the opposition to the Government's scheme. The AMA came into the great health debate at a certain stage with the sort of advertisements which appeared regularly in the papers. They suggested that under the Labor Party's scheme, which was referred to continually as nationalised medicine, people would become a statistic in a computer. The unhappy fate of patients under the nationalised health scheme, as it was called, would be to become a statistic in a computer. In those advertisements the question was asked: Wouldn't you feel much happier if your records were safely locked away in your doctor's surgery?' That is a question to which I would like to get an answer from many people in the community because I am not quite sure what the answer would be. There were a number of other advertisements of this kind which highly misrepresented the Government's scheme. They were largely dishonest and they confused the public. They influenced a wider section of the medical profession, and now they are clearly influencing a significant section of the Liberal Party and Opposition senators in this chamber. 
Of course when one looks at the attitude of the organised medical profession and its political organisations, one must ask to what degree these organisations really represent the views of the medical profession as a whole. There is always a great deal of talk in this chamber from the Opposition benches about the need to have secret ballots in trade unions, the need to keep an eye on what trade unionists do in their day to day activities and the need to have agreements, which are certified by a court, in relation to trade unions and so on. There has never been the same sort of clamour that the representative bodies of the medical profession should provide the same facilities for their members. I understand that there are not too many Australian Medical Association meetings at which there is a quorum and there are not too many doctors- it is a bad thing for our democracy- who take too much interest in the affairs of the AMA or the General Practitioners Society. I believe that most doctors in this community work hard and are dedicated to their profession. I believe that doctors, like everybody else who has had the advantage of specialist or technical training in a particular field, perform their duties to the best of their ability. But they do not have very much time to think about the social consequences of what they are doing and, more particularly, to think about the social consequences of what their purported leaders are saying on their behalf in the community in relation to the social problems of health. 
The attitude which has emerged from this situation is one of a desire to resist change in this matter at any price- to delay the deliberations of this chamber in order that change, which we on the Government side say is inevitable, can be delayed even for another week or so. That change has been resisted by the various medical associations, and it is now resisted by Opposition senators in this chamber. Last year the Opposition spokesman on health matters in the other place said: 
This debate has become more unwholesome as it has proceeded. Some argument has been based on false assumptions and advertising by some professional organisations which have demeaned the professions they represent; advertisements in deplorable taste, by professional bodies that should have known better. It has degenerated into personal abuse of Ministers and of individuals. 
That sort of misrepresentation which was widespread in 1973 is still continuing. Of course, 1973 was the year of the so-called great debate which in a sense, ended with the election on 18 May 1974. In that election, the timing of which was chosen by the Opposition, the Government obtained nearly 50 per cent of the votes throughout Australia. I put it to the Senate that if the people who voted in the election of May 1974 were clear about anything, they were clear about one thing- that if the Government was re-elected it would introduce its national health insurance scheme, because that scheme was discussed throughout 1973. It was foremost in the political debate in this country in 1973, and every elector who voted in May 1 974 surely must have been clear about the fact that if the Government was returned, it would introduce its national health insurance scheme. In spite of that, and in spite of all the horrors which  Senator Sheil  and others have said this scheme might create, the people still voted to return a Labor Government in May 1974. 
It may be the reason,  Senator Cavanagh.  But we have on the other side of the chamber this concept of a sort of selective mandate. It seems to me that Opposition senators have one thing in common about this scheme- they must each have the capacity to see through a keyhole with both eyes at once, because the selections are clearly made. I think that the Liberal-Country Party Opposition has interpreted what the people of Australia said in December 1972 and again in May 1974 only by looking, as it were, into every living room in Australia and saying: Look, the Australian people might have voted for the Labor Party on 2 occasions but no, they did not vote for a national health insurance scheme, or they did not vote for Senate representation for the Territories, or they did not vote for electoral reform or for anything else that we happened to dislike. The people voted for the Labor Party, but they did not vote for any of those things! Perhaps one day an Opposition senator will stand up in this chamber and tell us what the people of Australia did vote for. As  Senator Cavanagh  has suggested, one thing is perfectly clear: The Australian people knew what was going to happen about the health insurance scheme if they voted for the Labor Party. If anything can be said in summary, it is that the people voted for the Labor Party against the Opposition, and they knew the Opposition's attitude to health insurance and they knew the Labour Party's attitude. So the concept of the selective mandate is one at which we must really look closely in this chamber. 
Of course in the 1974 election campaign a new factor was introduced; suddenly the Liberal Party produced a new health scheme of its own. In spite of everything that was said in the findings of the Nimmo Report in 1 969, throughout 1973 the Liberals told us that the existing health scheme was satisfactory and that the Labor Party's health scheme was disastrous. Yet suddenly, on 23 April 1974, a new policy was produced by the Liberal Party. That policy went to the people in May 1974 and somehow it did not seem to appeal to them very much. Between 1969 and 1974 nothing was done about the inadequacies of the existing health scheme; nothing was done about the condition of the Liberal Party policy in relation to the provision of health insurance. Yet suddenly, before an election, a policy emerged- a son of Liberal Party jet lag of 4 years; Nimmo to Chipp, one might say. 
One might ask whether even now the new Liberal Party health scheme is understood by Opposition senators, or has even been read by Opposition senators, because we have heard very little about it in this debate. Maybe it is like the Opposition's education program which was produced in April 1974. A survey in Victoria found that 60 per cent of Liberal Party candidates did not approve of what was in that program because they had never been consulted about it. So much for democracy within the Liberal Party and for the policies which were produced in those dramatic days over Easter of 1 974; the policies which suddenly emerged but which still do not seem to receive universal acceptance among Liberal Party supporters themselves. But the significant fact about the production of a new health insurance program by the Liberal Party in April 1974 was that it was an admission that everything they had said in 1973 was wrong. The significant thing is that the Nimmo Report was right and that the whole debate of 1973- 'the great health debate of 1973'- was nothing more than a farce and an obstructionist tactic against the Government of the time. 
The new Liberal Party health scheme accepts in a background document that there are about one million people in Australia who are uninsured. It accepts that there was a need to introduce a sort of half-baked compulsory element into the scheme. As I understand it, the scheme has not been costed. There is no evidence that it has been costed. It fails completely to recognise the inequity of the present tax concessions as they fall on poorer people in the community. Of all things, it provides for a system of using the Taxation Office to collect premiums for private insurance funds. We might all have our quarrels with the Taxation Office from time to time. We all might have views as to what is its proper function, but has it ever been suggested seriously before in Australia that a function of the Taxation Office is to collect premiums for private organisations? That is what the Liberal Party's proposals amount to- the use of a government agency to assist the working of private funds. 
We might also ask: What is so magical about the private health funds in Australia? Will the Liberal Party senators go to bat in this debate to expound on the virtues of the private health  funds, to tell us how efficient and democratic they are in terms of consumer representation, and to tell us what sort of say the members of the funds have in the level of contributions and the level of benefits provided? Will they tell us what sort of voice contributors have in the policy of the funds? Will any Liberal senators get up and explain to us what are the great virtues of privacy, of competing private organisations in the provision of health care to the Australian community? Somehow the magic view that private institutions are better than government bodies still lingers on in spite of everything that the Nimmo report says and everything that has been said since. 
We on this side of the Senate do not say that the health insurance scheme which we propound is perfect. We say that it represents a change. We say that it is an answer to the criticisms and inadequacies of the health insurance provisions in this country. We say that it was quite clear in 1969 that the existing level of services provided to people in the community in relation to health was totally inadequate. It has been quite clear to everybody who has followed the debate ever since that the services are inadequate. The  introduction  of a new health scheme will involve difficulties. There are always problems associated with change and it requires a degree of courage to face up to them. 
It requires a large degree of myopia to say that we will not. face up to change at all, that we will go back to the old scheme which has existed in this country for a long time, even with some modifications. It is myopic to say that we will defend that scheme to the last; that we will defend the existing interests of private health funds; that we will defend the position of the General Practitioners Society and the Australian Medical Association; that we will adopt defences in relation to all those matters but  we  will not be prepared to face up to change.  I nave  said that change brings problems and nobody on this side of the Senate pretends that the  introduction  of the new health insurance scheme will be without difficulties. Of course it will have difficulties but I believe that as a government and a Senate we must be prepared to face up to those difficulties. We must not try to preserve the position and patch over the cracks of the ramshackle existing scheme. 
The Government has authority from the people of Australia for the introduction of a new comprehensive health scheme. If we do introduce such a scheme we will not be embarking on a unique and unusual development in health care. Many other countries have comprehensive health schemes of a compulsory nature. I have in mind the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, Finland, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Federal Republic of Germany, Netherlands, France, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Italy, Greece, Poland, Romania, Yugoslavia, Canada and New Zealand. Australia, with pretensions to being a just, modern and democratic society, should be proud to join those nations in providing new health insurance and health care schemes. I repeat that the Government has a mandate and the authority of the Australian people to introduce such legislation. I commend the measures to the House. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Post Office and the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board are currently studying aspects of cable television? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether arrangements are being made to provide fast mail services between Australia and other countries. If so, how soon can such services be made available to the general public? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Education seen a Press report in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 8 August in which it is reported that parent and teacher groups in Victoria have described the state school building program as a disaster? Is the Minister aware of concern about the Victorian Government's inability to spend $4.2m of Schools Commission grants on primary school libraries within the next 2 years? Has the Australian Government made grants promptly available to the Victorian Government for the purpose of school libraries? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate why the money is not being spent? 
I rise to support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill and to oppose the amendment. The presentation of this legislation represents the outcome of an election promise made by the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the 1972 election. In the course of that election campaign, the Prime Minister said: 
The Labor Government will enable Australia and ordinary Australians to take part in the ownership, development and use of Australian industries and resources. We will expand the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to enable it to join with Australian and foreign companies in the exploration, development and processing of Australian resources. 
It has taken quite some time to fulfil that promise which was made in 1972. It is now 8 1/2 months since the legislation relating to the National Investment Fund and the Australian Industry Development Corporation was first presented in the House of Representatives. Today, we have an amendment moved by  Senator Cotton  and supported by  Senator Maunsell  to refer this legislation to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. I point out that when the legislation was last referred to that Committee it was with the specific rider that the Committee report not later than 12 March 1974. Yet in August of 1974, with the Senate Committee now reconstituted, it is again proposed that the legislation be referred to that Committee for further consideration. If the new Committee, inexperienced as its members may be compared with the members of the previous Committee, takes the same amount of time to consider this legislation as the last Committee did, this legislation will again be delayed for a long period. 
I have said that this legislation is the result of an election promise the implementation of which was delayed. Much of that delay has occurred in the Senate. Last year when the legislation came before the Senate there was an attitude of total opposition from members of the Opposition to the Australian Industry Development Corporation proposals. 
-To that Bill which was before the Senate last year. Of course, some minor amendments have been made to the legislation in the House of Representatives in the last few weeks, which in some way appeared to satisfy the Opposition. Nonetheless, mere is still, in the words of Opposition senators, anxiety about the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund. In the lower house- the House of Representativesthe legislation was passed quite recently without any significant dissent and as a result of a fair degree of co-operation between Opposition and Government members in that place. I point out that it was passed in the other place with the expressed approval of a former Liberal Party 
Prime Minister. But in this House that sort of attitude apparently is not good enough. In spite of popular support for this legislation, conceded by Opposition spokesmen, further delays are still considered to be necessary. 
A distinguished Italian playwright, Pirandello, once wrote a play called 'Six characters in search of an author'. In this House we have, by analogy, 29 senators in search of a role. We hear much talk about the role of the Senate as being that of a States House or, alternatively, a House of Review. But in the popular imagination in Australia it is becoming nothing more than a House of delay. That delay is very apparent in relation to this legislation. The Senate is a House of delay because Opposition senators still see themselves as supporters of some sort of government in exile possessed by a Bonnie Prince Charlie syndrome which will somehow bring them back over the waters and then they will be able to control the AIDC. But of course, some of their strongest supporters in relation to this legislation criticised the Liberal Party. I recall an article which appeared on 17 February 1974 in The Independent' newspaper in Perth. That article stated: 
Why the AIDC was ever established-and by a Liberal Government-is beyond comprehension except that perhaps as governments do they thought they would rule forever. 
I am not sure who wrote it. It is in an editorial in the Perth newspaper The Independent'. 
It seems to do so. If you want me to read the whole article I will but it seems to be a fairly consistent newspaper. It can never be said that it consistently supported us. 
It supports  Mr Hancock.  The view concerning the divine right to govern which was referred to in that article in 'The Independent' and which is undoubtedly shared by  Senator Sim  and  Mr Lang  Hancock has now become a divine right to delay Government legislation at every conceivable opportunity. I support the comments made by my colleague  Senator McAuliffe  earlier in this debate when he commented on the tactics of referring this matter again to the same committee, differently constituted, when that committee had taken up so much time in its deliberations during 1 973. 
I should like briefly to refer to the history of this legislation. As I have already said, it was first introduced in 1970 by  Sir John  McEwen at the time of the Gorton Government and it is a not unnoticeable legacy from that era that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  still strongly supports the legislation in its amended form. At the time the legislation was introduced in 1970 there was a great deal of emotive talk about buying back the farm- an expression which, I think, originated with  Sir John  McEwen and which no doubt appealed to him greatly as a leader of the Australian Country Party. The fact of the matter is that it was not really the farm in the strict sense of the term which was being sold out; rather, it was very significant areas of Australian manufacturing industry, of the Australian rnining industry and so on. It was the sell-out of these sectors of the Australian economy which led the Australian people to express tremendous concern about the whole question of foreign investment in Australia in 1 972. The position was illustrated by the sort of advertisements which were being displayed by Californian newspapers indicating that Australia was still a soft cop for American investors who wanted to invest money overseas. 
That was the situation in 1972 when the issue of foreign investment in Australia was a key one in the minds of the Australian people and was undoubtedly very alarming to most Australians. At that time the Australian Industry Development Corporation, which was established in 1970, was something of a toothless tiger because unrealistic restrictions had been placed on its activities because of business anxieties and business fears expressed through members of the previous Government. Those restrictions meant that the AIDC could not buy a shareholding in an Australian company in an attempt to stave off a foreign takeover, that it could not be the Aus.tralian partner in a joint venture with foreign companies and that it could not take a lead in forming an Australian consortium for major resources developments such as the Alwest development in respect of which there has recently been much publicity. The AIDC had no possible role in relation to any of these matters under the legislation which was introduced in 1970 and which is to be amended by the present legislation. 
All the things which I have said that the AIDC could not do between 1970 and 1973 are things which it ought to have been able to do in terms of its stated objectives as expressed in the somewhat emotive language of people like  Sir John  McEwen when they talked in 1970 about buying back the farm. They are all within the stated objectives of the legislation. They were not within the powers which the legislation provided for the AIDC. 
I have referred to delays in this chamber by Opposition senators particularly in relation to this legislation and of course generally in relation to all Government legislation. I am not suggesting that, in relation to the AIDC legislation or the National Investment Fund legislation the delays were totally unprofitable. They enabled the Government to consult with industry on a wide ranging basis, they enabled the Government to consult with representatives of the Opposition about their attitude to this legislation, and they led in another place to some consensus on the nature of the legislation which should be passed by that House. Not only did they do that, but they also enabled many of the anxieties of business interests in this community, the anxieties of the life offices and others to be somewhat relieved during that period. Whilst that relief went a very long way, it perhaps did not go quite far enough. It certainly did not extend to the Board of Directors of the Bank of New South Wales. 
However there has been a change of course in the attitude of the Opposition to this legislation since it was first introduced. That change has been induced partly by the process of dialogue which has occurred with industry and with the Opposition and partly, of course, by the consistent pressure of the views of the Australian people in favour of this legislation, which views have now been expressed very firmly in 2 elections and in Press comment. That process of change even led the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in the other place to say quite recently: 'This is socialist legislation which I am prepared to support'. If ever the wheel has come full cycle it is evident in that remark by the honourable member for Mackellar. 
May I refer very briefly to the main constructive elements of the 2 pieces of legislation now before the House. The National Investment Fund Bill will enable the establishment of a national investment fund which will help to provide finance for the AIDC to carry out its new role in its expanded and developed form. The National Investment Fund Bill provides for the establishment of an independent supervisory council to protect the interests of subscribers to the Fund, to supervise the Fund, to advise the AIDC concerning investment and to determine the investment policy of the Fund itself. But the real importance and significance of the National Investment Fund to the Australian people is that it will enable not only foreign investors and Australian financial institutions but also Australian citizens- be they wealthy or relatively poor- who wish to invest in the expansion of the Australian economy to have a slice of the cake, as it were, and to invest through the National Investment Fund in great national enterprises. It has been put in other places that by enabling investors in Australia to invest through the National Investment Fund some unfair advantage is obtained by that Fund in detracting that investment from the normal activities of the share market. Of course the great advantage of the National Investment Fund is simply that people will be able to invest in it with some degree of security which they could not possibly have done by investing on the stock exchange at any time since about 1969. 
If one reads a recent report tabled in the Senate it will be seen quite clearly that the people of Australia- the small investors- who wanted to invest in great national enterprises had little security in investing in many of those enterprises, particularly in the years 1971 and 1972 at the height of the share market boom. One thing that that report really does not explain in dealing with the iniquities and deficiencies of the stock market during that period of boom is how much money in fact was lost by small investors in Australia who will now have the opportunity to invest in the National Investment Fund with some degree of security. 
I turn very briefly to the role of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The AIDC in its new role will enable Australian investors to participate in a significant way in the growth of the economy. A very important development is the fact that the AIDC will be required to invest according to certain guidelines relating to Government policy in relation to trade practices legislation, environment, industrial relations and efficiency in industry. If nothing else, those guidelines provide a significant new factor in Australian business which has not been present before and which hopefully might set an example to great Australian private industries which have not concerned themselves with guidelines such as environmental protection, the efficiency of industry generally and industrial relations policies. These industries have not concerned themselves with those guidelines in the past because no example has been set for them. 
I think it is significant and important that the AIDC for the first time will be acting according to guidelines of that kind. There are many examples of the sort of role which the AIDC can play. 
Significantly, it can play a great role in the prevention of investment in key sectors of Australian companies by foreign investors. It is a competitor with those investors which can compete in a significant way according to the sorts of guidelines to which I have referred. It can help in various ways to assist Australian companies which need assistance in the form of injection of capital but which are reluctant for one reason or another to obtain that assistance from overseas or on the normal market in Australia. It can take a direct interest in supporting companies which have a national and importantly significant role in investment policy generally. It also can assist in other areas which are not areas in which private investors frequently play an important role. For example, it can be of great help m the rural sector of the economy by helping to promote the growth of producer and farmer co-operatives and assisting marketing programs for rural industry by the growth of those types of cooperatives. Above all, as a national corporation subject to government support and government direction in relation to the nature of its investment policies, it can play a significant role in the economic development of this country. 
The opposition which has been raised to this legislation at this stage is nothing more than a collection of quibbles which quite seriously ignore the significant and fundamental role which is envisaged for the AIDC. If anything more than quibbles were involved in that opposition, I believe that the Opposition's appropriate course would have been to move those matters as amendments. But instead the Opposition suggests that the Bill be referred to a committee for further consideration. At the beginning of my remarks I made the comment that to delay at apparently any price is sometimes seen as the role of Opposition senators. I speak on the basis of this debate really having continued for some 18 months since the legislation was first discussed. If Opposition senators had anything significant to contribute by way of amendment to the Government's proposals, there is no reason why it could not be done now. Instead, we are asked to refer the Bill to a committee. I suggest that that is nothing but a delaying tactic and that it departs from a proper consideration of the essential features of both items of legislation which are now before the Senate. I accordingly commend the Bills and oppose the amendment. 
-Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs supply details as to the number of copies of Australian magazines of a cultural and informative nature distributed to Australian diplomatic and trade posts abroad? Will the Minister additionally supply details as to the number and names of Australian magazines of a non-profit, cultural nature, specifically those published under some form of subsidy from the Australian Council for the Arts which are distributed to posts abroad? For the purposes of this inquiry I would wish the Minister to refer especially to the major Australian literary magazines such as 'Meanjin', 'Southerly', 'Overland' and 'Quadrant'. 
-Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate of the Australian Government's attitude to the United Nations convention relating to the crime of genocide? Has the Government ratified this convention and, if so, is it intended to introduce legislation to give effect to Article V of the convention? 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Leader of the Opposition recently send telegrams to all local government bodies in Australia asking their views on the Government 's economic policies. 
2 ) Were 870 telegrams despatched at urgent rate. 
3 ) Was the cost of the telegrams $5,776. 
Who authorised this expenditure and who met the cost. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform the House whether it is the present intention of the Department of Transport to demolish the socalled Number Four Quarters at the Cape Otway Lighthouse Station? Is the Minister aware of the fact that this building was erected in 1859 as a vital link in the first submarine telegraph service connecting Tasmania with the Australian mainland colonies, and is the last remaining association with this historic event of prime importance in the history of communications in Australia? Will the Minister take action to ensure that this well-preserved and historic building is protected from destruction? 
-I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Has the Minister seen a report in the Australian' newspaper of Monday, 23 September, in which the education correspondence of that newspaper again raises the question of the failure of the New South Wales and Victorian governments to reveal their expenditure of Federal money on education? In particular, does the Minister agree with the suggestion that is made that these State governments lack the drive and organisational competence to spend the money effectively? 
I rise to support the Bill. Perhaps at a later stage I will have the opportunity of commenting on amendments which are now being distributed. Before I speak about the general purposes of this legislation I should perhaps make some comments about  Senator Greenwood's  analogies between the corporate structures of capital and the corporate structures of trade unionism, as he called them. Of course, this Senate has passed recently the trade practices legislation which is predominantly concerned with protecting the public interest against the activities of large aggregations of capital- the corporate structures of capital in our community. 
This legislation which we are now debating is concerned, of course, with the internal affairs of the running of trade unions. The trade practices legislation is not concerned with the internal affairs and the running of corporate structures in their internal management. That, of course, is the difference between the 2 pieces of legislation. It is a cause of concern for many unions that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is seen by Opposition senators as a means of, in some ways, providing unionists with facilities or, in other ways, directing how they will conduct their affairs within the structure of the union itself. 
I turn now to the initial premises which are behind this piece of legislation. The number of registered trade unions in Australia at the moment is approximately three hundred. Of those 300 unions one-third have a membership of less than 5,000 people. The registration system which now operates was established in 1900 or shortly thereafter. By and large, it has operated since then in spite of vast changes which have taken place in our community. If one thinks of the position of one-third of the unions of Australia with membership of 5,000 or less, one realises it is almost impossible to manage a union of that size in today's circumstances. It is a matter of sheer lack of income and sheer lack of capacity to engage appropriate staff and so on to carry on the union's activities. 
Another example of what the Government is concerned about is that there are 28 unions operating in the Post Office in Australia and 26 unions operating in Trans-Australia Airlines. Anybody concerned with industrial relations in this country knows the sorts of difficulties that brings about in the workings of the arbitration system from day to day. Union advocates are not the only ones who are aware of these difficulties. Almost everyone is aware of them.  Senator Greenwood  seems to be aware of them, too. If one were to ask any of the major employer bodies in Australia what their attitude is to this piece of legislation, one would find that the employers almost unanimously approve of the legislation for the simple reason that they know it will facilitate the workings of the arbitration system. I think it was in 1918 that  Mr Justice  Higgins, the first  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, made the comment in the waterside workers' case that 'competition for membership between unions is disastrous to industrial peace'. That statement is as true today as it was in 1 9 1 8. But this is one area of industrial peace which is not susceptible to problems such as inflation and the various problems which cause unions to get involved in industrial problems with employers. This is an area of industrial warfare- if one likes to put it in that way- which can be cured by appropriate legislation. In this regard I doubt the good faith of some Opposition senators. For example,  Senator Greenwood  spoke about the recent problems of demarcation disputes in the transport industry. In the first place, the matter to which he referred was not a demarcation dispute between 2 different unions at all. In this industry one should examine particularly the sort of situation which occurred in the Port of Adelaide about which senators in this chamber asked questions on a number of occasions. That was a clear-cut case of a demarcation dispute and nothing else between the Waterside Workers Federation and the Transport Workers Union of Australia which held up a large quantity of steel at the Adelaide wharf for a long time. In a holiday period of 1972 there was an oil shortage in the State of New South Wales, again resulting from a demarcation dispute between 2 transport unions. 
The attitude of Opposition senators seems to be that they must oppose anything which on paper seems to make unions more powerful. To illustrate the extent of demarcation disputes I refer to the May bulletin of the Bureau of Census and Statistics on this subject. Of all the industrial disputes which occurred in Australia in the relevant 12 months, one-seventh related to demarcation issues. In that situation, surely it is important for a legislature- indeed for a house of review- to consider by what means the oneseventh of the industrial disputes which occur in Australia can best be avoided in order to facilitate the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That is why all the employer organisations in Australia want this piece of legislation. They want it because they want to get rid of oneseventh of the industrial disputes which occur in this country. 
The fact of the matter is that the present legislation, which was introduced by  Senator Greenwood  's Party when in office, just has not worked. It has failed to work for reasons which involve criticism of the trade union movement itself. Trade unionists are like every other section of this community insofar as they belong to voluntary associations; they are, by and large, apathetic unless a particular situation concerns them in a particular way. It is to take a particularly false view of industrial relations to say that when a mass meeting of union members occurs about a wage issue those people are somehow conned- if I may use that expression- into attending that meeting. If a demarcation matter concerns members of a union vitally they certainly will take a part in the union's affairs in relation to that matter. If a wages issue concerns them vitally, they certainly will take part in the union's affairs in relation to that issue. What the present legislation does is to limit the capacity of the unions to properly conduct their own affairs in relation to amalgamations. 
Let me indicate briefly the sort of problems encountered and the reasons why the present legislation does not work and why we say that in amalgamation proposals the running should be taken by the committee of management of a union. There are in Australia a number of unions which have sought to amalgamate with other unions. Some of them are in a situation in which one-third of their membership turns over every 6 months; for example, unions concerned with the wool industry, the food processing industry and other industries of that kind. In a situation in which people may belong to a union for three or four months, because they happen to work in the Shepparton canneries or the wool industry for three of four months, it is absolutely ludicrous to say that they should be placed in a position n of equal importance with officials and elected officers of that union who have contributed to its running over many years. It is absolutely ludicrous to say that people in this position should be in any way compelled to vote on a proposal relating to union amalgamations. It is just unreal. 
One of the great tragedies of the Opposition, of course- plenty of criticism is made of the Government in this regard- is that its members just do not understand the situation which exists in many trade unions. They do not bother to understand because it is not an area in which they are particularly interested. If they took the trouble to ask the relevant employer bodies in Australia what they thought about it, they might gain a better understanding of the sort of problems which unions face in this regard. The objective of this legislation is quite clear. It is to reduce the friction and the causes of one-seventh of the disputes which are so detrimental to industry and society generally. The objective of this legislation is consistent with the objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself. There are many unions which at this time desire to amalgamate, and they have been prevented from doing so because of the requirements of the present legislation. It is our view in regard to this Bill that they should be free to do so legally and with the minimum of legislative interference. 
I hope that the current desire for amalgamations does not stem from a desire to match the corporate structures of capital, as  Senator Greenwood  calls them, but it obviously does stem from changes in society itself which have taken place in recent years. New technologies have introduced changing patterns of work relationships. Industries, in terms of employee crafts, come and go. It is essential that those changes be recognised in a fairly flexible arrangement which facilitates union amalgamations to accommodate those technological changes. If the conciliation and arbitration system- which, by its very structure and its very Act, depends on the representative organisation of bodies of employers and employees- is to survive with any sort of viable future, having regard to the public benefit which is envisaged by the system, then there is the need for flexibility which will reduce conflict. As I have said before, both unions and employers operating in the field of industrial relations recognise the necessity for these sorts of proposals. 
I quite readily concede that Opposition speakers have a view of the public interest about which they are concerned. I think it is not unfair to say that it goes something like this: 'Really, in our society, trade unions cause a lot of trouble and for that reason it is desirable that they do not become too big, because if they become bigger they will cause more trouble, and we on the Opposition benches know that unions are manipulated by malevolent men who run the unions from the committee of management level and tell the unfortunate slave members what they have to do'. I do not dissent from the fact that there may be a slight grain of truth in that proposition; but what I am trying to put to the Senate is that that is a simplistic view of the way trade unions operate and it is a simplistic view of the way the conciliation and arbitration legislation operates. As I have said before, those involved in conciliation and arbitration recognise that that is a simplistic view of the situation. When one talks about amalagamations, of course, it is not true to say that they are all necessary or desirable; but many are necessary and desirable in the interest of rationalisation of various industries and callings. Those who are most aware of what is desirable and what is rational are employers engaged in the particular industries and the best informed members of unions engaged in those industries, who are, of course, the members of the committees of management. 
I think we in this country have to be very careful that we do not facilitate here or elsewhere legislation which rushes us into a situation of some sort of giant corporate state in which the corporations of labour and the corporations of capital clash in a sort of neanderthal giant manner to the exclusion, perhaps, of the public interest and to the exclusion, perhaps, of smaller business interests and smaller unions in the community, because there are certain logical arrangements of society which are not consistent with that view of a giant corporate state. If one examines the situation of unions one sees that that really is not what this is all about. It is not a question of amalgamations so that there are giant unions. The majority of unions concerned in amalgamation proposals at the moment are very small unions which do not remain viable institutions - 
-Yes, the AMWU certainly could be described as a giant union. I would not dissent from that proposition. But that is not the union which the Opposition's proposed amendments are designed to catch, is it? Not really. It is the unions which seek to amalgamate in the future for which the Opposition's proposals will make it difficult - 
-The honourable senator ought to ask the ironworkers about that. He referred to the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia. For some time that union has been trying legally to amalgamate with the Federated Artificial Fertilisers and Chemical Workers Union of Australia, but it cannot do so because the legislation which was introduced by the previous Government just does not work in terms of the union being able to carry out a successful amalgamation proposal. If  Senator Greenwood  wants to refer to the Ironworkers Association for a comment on the existing system I suggest that he do so, because that is the problem with which that union is confronted at the present time. In saying that one is concerned that this should not become a field for the clashes of the giant corporations. I again emphasise the importance of flexibility in amalgamation arrangements. I am sure that we on the Government side do not see this as a proposal which will relieve all the stresses of industrial organisations or, indeed, as the ultimate solution to many of the problems which are created by change in the industrial relations sphere and changes in our society generally, but it will help greatly in reducing the friction which now exists. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to the changes made by this Bill. I shall refer to some of those changes in detail. The first change relates to the proposed new section 158 G under which a proposed scheme of amalgamation will not only have to be submitted to the Industrial Registrar and published in the Australian Government Gazette but will also have to be published by each of the organisations in the appropriate union journal and in a metropolitan daily newspaper. That is an additional measure to advise people what is going on in relation to amalgamations. Of course, it is a sensible improvement because how many trade union officials- indeed, how many honourable senatorsfor lighter reading dip into the Australian Government Gazette? Not too many, I would think, but that is the provision in the present legislation. One found out about union amalgamations by reading the Australian Government Gazette. As I say, honourable senators do not read it, so why should ordinary rank and file trade unionists read it? But they do read metropolitan daily newspapers. I am sure that that improvement in the legislation will bring the notice of proposed amalgamations more readily to the attention of members of trade unions. I think that even  Senator Greenwood  would agree that it is a democratic procedural improvement in the legislation. 
-Does the honourable senator mean the statements which accompany cases to the Industrial Registrar? 
-I think, with great respect, that that is a matter which is not of major concern to rank and file trade unionists. I think the important thing is notification of a proposed amalgamation and with whom. That is the thing which alerts people to what is going on in the particular organisation with which they may or may not be concerned. Surely the point is to alert people, because under any union rules there are procedures whereby meetings have to be held and these matters have to be considered and voted on. That is the important procedure, to alert people to what is going on. 
The second matter to which objection is taken is the proposal that a ballot has to be conducted by each organisation in accordance with its rules. Of course, that principle is quite explicitly spelled out- and it was during the period when  Senator Greenwood  was Attorney-General- in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It provides that a ballot of unionists on any union matter shall be conducted in accordance with the union rules. The only requirements of the Act are to ensure that a ballot is a secret ballot, and so on. The union rules are supposed to provide for that. If they do not provide that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act lays down proceedings for challenging any ballot that is not conducted in accordance with the scheme envisaged in the Act or in the scheme envisaged in the union rules. 
-No. I think the honourable senator will find that throughout the Conciliation and Arbitration Act there is reference to secret ballots. I concede that some unions may not carry that provision out, but if they do not do so there are proceedings for dealing with them under the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Our position on this matter is simply that an organisation conducts a ballot in a normal way unless there is a request to the Industrial Registrar by 250 members or one-twentieth of the union membership, whichever is the less. An organisation conducts a ballot unless there is a request in that form to the Industrial Registrar for the ballot to be conducted otherwise. That proposal is totally consistent with every provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act relating to the conduct of union ballots. 
Union ballots are not conducted by the Industrial Registrar unless a committee of management or a percentage of the membership of a union requests that they be so conducted. That, again, is consistent with every provision in the Act. I make the simple comment that there should not be interference in that scheme relating to the conduct of ballots which has existed from time immemorial under the Act. There should be consistency here, and there should be no interference unless the provision relating to a request for a ballot to the Industrial Registrar is invoked by members of a union. Again I put it that unless that sort of a request is made, it is sound policy that a union should be able to conduct its own affairs in accordance with its rules. Many unions now prefer that their ballots be conducted by the Industrial Registrar. I have not known of any unions in recent times which have proposed amalgamation with other unions and which have not as a first step gone to the Industrial Registrar to seek his advice about the steps which had to be taken and about the way in which any ballots in relation to those amalgamations should be conducted. It is almost a standard procedure for trade unions now to consult the Industrial Registrar about a ballot which has to be conducted in connection with an amalgamation. Of course, the principle involved is simpler than that. 
I reiterate that if one examines the Conciliation and Arbitration Act one finds that this legislation is consistent with everything that is in the Act. It is consistent with everything that was in the Act when Opposition senators were in government. 
-I am talking about the method of conducting union ballots, and the method of conducting union ballots is denned in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as being by secret ballot. If unions do not conduct secret ballots aggrieved members can go to the Industrial Registrar and complain about the matter. That principle has been in the Act since 1940- during the whole time  Senator Greenwood  was in government- and the proposal in this legislation is quite consistent with that provision. The only thing different about our amalgamation proposals is simply that as policy matters are to be considered and negotiations are required with employers in industry and with other unions, it is very appropriately a matter which in all instances should be dealt with by the committee of management of a union unless there is so much concern about it in the union that its members want to invoke the safeguard provisions which require a ballot to be conducted by the Industrial Registrar. If one looks at the provisions in the Act one finds that the legislation which in fact was introduced by the previous Government required a lesser percentage of members than the percentage of members which is required by the present amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to petition for a ballot to be conducted by the Industrial Registrar. 
The next major difference occurs in section 158m which deals with the determination of the result of a ballot. This provision simply means that the proposal for an amalgamation is approved if one-half of the members voting in the ballot vote in favour of the amalgamation proposal. It involves the deletion of the provision that 50 per cent of the financial members must vote in the ballot. I take a hypothetical case. If only 10 per cent of the union members are interested in an amalgamation proposal and vote and if 6 out of 10 of those people vote in favour of the amalgamation, the amalgamation scheme is approved. It might be said that that principle is wrong. But it happens in local government elections in New South Wales. It happened last weekend. People are not compelled to vote in local government elections. A very small percentage of them in fact did vote. Why should unions be placed in a different position? It is said that unions should be put in a different position from other voluntary associations in our society because of some concern of  Senator Greenwood's,  which I share, that the activities of the unions appear to affect the public interest from time to time in various ways. That may be so, but the activities of all kinds of bodies in the community affect the public interest. The same sort of inhibitions are not sought to be put on those other bodies, but they are sought to be put on trade unions. 
-Senator Hall says that I am kidding, but I hope that when he speaks he will tell us of the inhibitions that are put on the internal affairs of the management of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I would like him to point to provisions in the Companies Act which require shareholders to attend meetings and which require them to vote at meetings of giant corporations such as BHP. These matters affect the public interest. There is nothing in any Companies Act in Australia which compels people to vote at shareholders' meetings, which compels people to attend meetings or which requires a majority of 50 per cent. It it is absolutely hair-raising to look at the provisions in Companies Acts throughout Australia with regard to the requirements that are put on people in control of major corporations such as Broken Hill Co. Ltd. That is the difference between the affairs and management of the corporations of capital and the affairs and management of the corporations of labour. 
-Senator Greenwood will find that all the corporations of capital agree with this legislation which we are now debating. They are probably much closer to it than he is. The corporations of capital are not interested in confronting powerful unions if they can confront small unions. But they are interested in having to deal with one union rather than 28 unions. I understand their point of view. It is a very sensible point of view. The Australian Post Office has had to deal with 28 unions. This is the sort of problem which employers face when they have to deal with a great number of unions instead of one. We say that the Opposition, by the proposed amendment to the provisions for determining the result of a ballot, is seeking to insert in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act conditions in relation to the administration of the internal affairs of trade unions which are not imposed on anybody else in our society. The philosophical view behind that, as I understand it, is either that it is desirable to keep unions weak or that unions are more prey to malevolent men than is any other corporate organisation in our society. With the greatest of respect, that is a simplistic and not a well thought out view if one wishes to solve some of the problems which lead to one-seventh of the industrial disputes in this country. That is why we are seeking a flexible and reasonable procedure for organisations which are, after all, composed of many individual citizens and members and not just a handful of people. The composition of organisations changes from time to time and should in the circumstances be subject to a much more flexible arrangement than presently exists. 
The procedures in this legislation are designed to ensure that amalgations are still subject to every conceivable check by the Industrial Registrar. They incorporate a right of objection. They are subject at all times to any challenge which might be made in the Australian Industrial Court. For those reasons we say that the legislation does nothing more than give the degree of flexibility which employers and unions desire. It incorporates the sort of safeguards which are desired both by Opposition spokesmen and, 1 believe, the unions. It represents a form of relief from legislation which has proved unworkable. Unions should not be subject to different impositions from other corporate structures in our society. In this legislation there is still a greater degree of regulation of the internal affairs of unions which desire to amalgamate than there is of the affairs of other bodies in society which attempt to fuse their activities or amalgamate in one form or another. 
One cannot successfully legislate in the Senate or anywhere else to abolish apathy. I know that governments have tried from time to time to do that, but not with monumental success. One cannot legislate to abolish apathy in the affairs of trade unions, if that exists, as it does from time to time, as in other organisations or to compel trade unionists to take part in the affairs of the union unless the members are interested in those matters. This situation is covered by the provision which allows people, who are concerned about anything which has been initiated by a committee of management, to have it the subject of a ballot, subject to scrutiny by the Industrial Registrar and, if necessary, by the Australian Industrial Court. All that one can do in relation to registered organisations under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is to provide a legislative arrangement which gives the maximum information to the people concerned. This legislation does that. It does more than the existing legislation which gives certain safeguards in certain circumstances and provides a flexible system which is at all times subject to checks and balances contained in the legislation. This legislation provides that. It is a workable piece of legislation as distinct from that which now exists. It is sought anxiously by unions and employers in the community so that the industrial relations system can at least have one area of conflict substantially reduced. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether he has seen newspaper reports that a large number of migrants have been charged with obtaining motor car licences by illegal means. As the migrants involved are all of Turkish and Lebanese origin, will the Minister take steps to ensure that the Department of Labor and Immigration advises migrants of these nationalities in publications in their languages of the requirements of Australian law in relation to motor car licences? 
I begin by congratulating  Senator Martin  on her maiden speech. For nine or ten weeks she has adorned this chamber- I hope she will understand what I am trying to say- like the Mona Lisa, smiling at everybody and saying little. Tonight she said something. Like the Mona Lisa, if one looks at that picture, it has been a pretty interesting and intellectual contribution to the debate. I congratulate heron that. 
It is 8 days since the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  introduced the Budget in another place. Since then there has been much speculation about the effects of that Budget. Last night the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Snedden)  and tonight the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  delivered speeches in voices of prophetic gloom which were meant, one suspects, to sound like the statements of statesmen with grave responsibility. They attacked the Budget on many of its smaller points. But no alternative to the strategy adopted by the Budget was really produced. In fact the speech delivered last night by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place could have been delivered by the Leader of the Opposition in any Western democracy which is subject to the same sort of problems as this country's. It would not matter whether the government of that country was a conservative government or a government of radical change, because what has been attacked in the Australian situation is symptomatic only of a general malaise in the whole world economy. 
I am reminded of a story which I was told only last night. A  president  of an unnamed republic was congratulated on the exchange rate of the currency which the republic had maintained. He was told that his currency had maintained its standard and gone up against the yen, the lire and the dollar. He replied: 'Yes, but it has gone down against the tomato'. That is symptomatic of the sort of problem which every country with a comparable economy to that of Australia faces. All have incurred problems with inflation, and most of those countries are incurring problems with unemployment. Those 2 problems are the ones which are being most talked about in Western democracies and throughout the world at the moment. 
The Budget which was presented last week is an historic budget if only for one reason. It is the first budget which specifically rejects the notion of created unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. I remind the Senate of our history, which people frequently are too ready to forget. For 23 years we lived in a country which was constantly described as a country with a stop-go economy- a country which had recessions in 1961 and 1972, and in both cases unemployment was used deliberately as an economic weapon. In December 1972 this Government inherited an inflationary situation and unemployment. That unemployment was largely created by the Budget which was brought down in 1972 by the present Leader of the Opposition. There can be no doubt about the Labor Government 's priorities in relation to unemployment. Politicians sometimes talk about unemployment with a sickening degree of hypocrisy and scarcely concealed glee. Tonight in the Senate one heard the Leader of the Opposition talking about unemployment in much the same way as Walter Bagehot once referred to statisticians' use of figures. He said that statisticians use figures like a drunkard uses a lamp-post- for support rather than illumination. That is what the Opposition is doing in this Budget debate and has been doing for a number of weeks in talking about unemployment figures. The figures are not only threats, but also are designed to produce a sense of gloom in the community. 
I was talking about the 23 years of previous conservative government in this country. Following the end of those 23 years in December 1972 the present Government took 2 steps in relation to economic policy which were universally applauded as being courageous measures which the Liberal-Country Party coalition would not have taken. Firstly, we reduced tariffs and, secondly, we revalued the currency. There are two effects of those policies which could not have been foreseen at that time by any economist or any politician. Those effects briefly were thesefirst that some selective unemployment might have flowed from those decisions, and it can now be seen that it has flowed in part from those decisions. Secondly, the tariff cuts designed to produce price reductions in Australia had little effect on the reduction of prices and the countering of inflation because of the greed of certain retailers and importers in this community who failed to pass on the reduced prices of imported goods to the Australian community. 
That illustrates a point which we all have to face up to in considering the Australian economy in 1974, that is, that there are interests in Australian society which have a very great effect on the level of inflation and which have a responsibility, just as the Australian Government is constantly said by the Opposition to have a responsibility. Many of those interests are in the private sector of the economy. 
Following those actions of the Government in 1973 in relation to tariffs and revaluation, we had in 1974 the May election which was brought about by the refusal of supply to the elected government. I make only one comment about that and simply refer to the scenario, if I may use that expression, leading up to the present Budget. By using the refusal of" supply as an expedient political instrument, the Opposition in this Senate for the first time in Australia's history did more to undermine confidence in Australian democratic institutions than the present level of inflation or unemployment in. this community could possibly do because it is impossible for a government, with an Opposition prepared to stoop to those methods in the Senate, to carry out long term policies and at the same time consider its own electoral interest as any political Party in office has to do. So that is the situation leading up to the present Budget debate. 
What is the Opposition's role in the Budget debate? In this morning's Melbourne 'Age' the economics writer,  Mr Davidson,  made this comment:   . . even though  Mr Snedden  has been constantly talking about the economy since the May election, he so far has displayed little evidence that he has the intellectual and political toughness to take the decisions which the deteriorating situation demands. 
If one studies the comments of economic commentators generally the consensus of opinion about the Opposition's role in the Budget debate is that there is a massive verdict of 'no answer from the Opposition' to the problems which beset Australia at this time. When one hears of proposals for cuts in Government expenditure but no suggestion as to where those cuts might be made, and when one hears nit picking criticisms of certain measures the Government has taken in the Budget, it can be seen that all these criticisms amount to nothing more than that. 
There is no production of an alternative solution to the present problems of inflation and unemployment. There has been a continual call by the Opposition for some sort of package to deal with the entire economic ills of Australia at this time- a package which no other country has discovered and which, if the Labor Government were to produce it, would be opened by the Opposition with a gleeful innocence of children delving into a show bag searching for something to criticise. As the distinguished Melbourne political commentator,  Mr John  Curtain, said, packaging is in in terms of discussing the economy and discussing any matters which are the concern of government. But the Budget is not a universal package or a panacea for the economic ills which beset any country, particularly this country at the moment. 
The Budget is concerned with the Government's expenditure and with the Government's priorities. Our priorities as a government are quite clear. There are a large number of steps which can be taken to deal with inflation and with unemployment but they are not necessarily matters for inclusion in the Budget. As I said earlier our priorities arise from 23 years of neglect of a large section of the community by a laissez-faire government. Our priorities are in areas such as education where we are concerned with the long term needs of the majority of Australian children. Nobody seriously suggests that there is anything wrong with that. Sometimes it is suggested that in being concerned with the needs of a majority of Australian children we determine this nation's capacity and wealth in the generations to come and how we keep up with the technological changes which are taking place in the world. 
In considering the needs of a majority of children it is sometimes suggested that we neglect the private schools. True it is that we consider that children in government schools have a greater educational priority than children in private schools, but since this Government came to office it has made $23i4m available to private schools for building programs. The Government program now provides for a further $30m for non-government schools from January 1974 to 31 December 1975 for building programs. We have not ignored the interests of private schools; we have emphasised our priority, which is to the public sector of education. Our other priorities have been clearly spelled out. They include child care, our concern to protect the interests of pensioners in the community, and the development of cities and facilities and better conditions in cities. All these matters have to go ahead in our community if people in 10 years time are to be able to look back and say: 'Well, because of its activity in the last decade Australia has kept up with the rest of the world'. All these activities have to go ahead in the interests of the bulk of the Australian community and of the future of this nation. 
When the Opposition talks about a package in the Budget it must be remembered that the Budget cannot be seen in isolation from other economic policies designed to cope with inflation and unemployment. As  Mr A.  C. Goode, a distinguished Melbourne sharebroker, said to the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce on Monday of this week, devaluation is the quickest and most effective way of combating inflation and easing unemployment. The devaluation decision of the Government was not announced in the 
Budget; it was announced last night. In giving that address to the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce,  Mr Goode  also referred to a number of strategies which the Government might adopt in the foreseeable future. He referred to the curtailment of imports, the adjustment of exchange rates which I have referred to, releases from statutory reserve deposits and further cuts in personal tax as the year progresses. These are not necessarily matters to be included in a much vaunted package. These are options which are open to the Government and all within the realms of possibility in the Government's future economic strategy. 
What we must be concerned to do it to encourage an atmosphere of confidence in the community, an atmosphere which perhaps has been engendered a little already in the last 24 hours by the devaluation decision. It is of no good  joining  the gloomy prophets who talk with concealed glee about unemployment levels and industrial unrest but who in this chamber yesterday voted against a Bill of the Government which might have substatially reduced industrial unrest in this community and who indulge in what one might, I think, quite honestly describe as stimulated gloom. Obviously what we have to do is try to encourage the private sector particularly away from that atmosphere of stimulated gloom. 
In the 'National Times' of last weekend  Mr Fred  Miller, who is described as a director of the largest number of companies in Australia, is reported to have said that the Government's attitude could be expressed in terms of: 'We're in, whacko. Let's look after our people'. Of course, that may be so. That may be a valid comment to make. It may be a good criticism. But, as I said earlier, for 23 years we were not in and the needs of our people- and their economic needs in particularwere not looked after. Those 23 years were marked by an utter lack of liaison between the private sector of the economy, the business community, and both the Liberal Party of the time and the Labor Party, particularly in the latter years before this present Government assumed office. I say quite frankly, as a member of the Goverment Party, that I think it is important that the Government encourage greater dialogue with the private sector of the economy. But I do not think we can be blamed entirely for the lack of dialogue which has been apparent.  Sir Peter  Abeles, the Managing Director of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, is reported in the National Times' of last weekend as saying: 'the initiative for a dialogue between men of good faith has to come from our side, from the employers' side. Without elaborating on it, that is a responsible view of a responsible businessman. He recognises that our economic problems at the moment cannot be cured merely by pointing a gloomy finger in the direction of the Government. They must be cured by an approach of men of goodwill in all sections of industry, in the unions, in the Government and, one would hope, in the Opposition. But from the Opposition we hear only a myopic political view. 
The Opposition refuses to analyse seriously the overall economic strategy of the Government, and instead concentrates on relatively minor matters which the Opposition would like to think are part of the package which the Budget is supposed to be. In dealing with the question of inflation I think it is obvious to every serious commentator that there must be restraint by all sections of the community in Australia- the sort of restraint to which  Sir Peter  Abeles refers in that article, the sort of restraint which was not displayed by retailers and importers who took advantage of the tariff cuts of 1972 to say, in the terms that I quoted before: 'Whacko, let's look after ourselves'. There must be restraint, of course, in the industrial relations scene in Australia also. I notice that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  suggested again that this could be achieved by some sort of national conference. For many years this has been the Liberals' universal panacea for any problem for which they have no real answer. They say: 'Let us appoint a committee of inquiry and, when we get a report, put it away'. 
-Every report of a commission established under this Labor Government has been published and discussed. You cannot say that seriously of the Vernon report or the report on constitutional review, which were pigeonholed in your term of office and on which dust was allowed to settle. It is true that many reports that were commissioned by the previous Government were put away and never acted upon. Nothing has happened as a result of the various inquiries that have taken place. Once again the Leader of the Opposition suggests a conference between employers and unions as a solution to all national economic problems. I do not know whether he still seriously thinks that he is capable of indulging in a more rational dialogue with the unions than anybody else, and particularly the present Government. 
-I do not know whether he seriously believes that. I think that he probably could do worse. I think that he could do a lot worse. Indeed, the conference which took place yesterday in Sydney seems to indicate that  Mr Snedden  could do a lot worse and that the Government has done quite well. Time alone will tell. 
If you are talking about the number of industrial disputes which have taken place in Australia this year, it is true that there have been a large number. 

 - Senator Jessop makes these gleeful comments. He is gleeful about industrial unrest. He is gleeful about unemployment because he thinks he can make some little nit-picking political point out of it. The fact is that industrial unrest in this country might have been considerably lessened if yesterday  Senator Jessop  had been prepared to get out of his stone age mentality on industrial relations and realise that a lot of industrial unrest is due to demarcation disputes and that there is a need for amalgamation of unions, as every serious commentator on industrial relations says. It is that sort of glee about these things in our community, coupled with the sort of criticism which is made and this action by so-called responsible senators when a serious debate takes place, as it did yesterday, that leads to the present malaise in which we find ourselves. That is not the sort of attitude I am talking about when I quote from people like  Sir Peter  Abeles and  Mr Goode,  who are responsible business leaders in this country, about the needs in this community for restraint and cooperation on all sides. We might be able to get it in the community but we certainly do not get it in the Senate. 
I said that the suggestion of a conference on industrial relations was something which was regarded by  Mr Snedden  as a universal panacea. But it is not a very new suggestion, it is not a very sound suggestion in the circumstances and it is typical of the sort of suggestion which was present throughout the speech of the Leader of the Opposition and which was subject to much criticism in the Press. In conclusion, in making the point about a need for dialogue in our community, about the need for restraint in all sections of the community and about the need for encouragement of confidence rather than prophesies of gloom, may I quote again from  Mr Good  speaking in his address to the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce. He said: 
I am fundamentally an optimist and I believe in the political awareness and good sense of the Australian Goverment. 
He said that the Budget alone did not fulfil all his desires in relation to the economy but that the Budget accompanied by devaluation would be a package which would go a long way to solving the economic management difficulties which we have incurred. As a member of the Government I share the view of  Mr Goode  about the fundamental political awareness and good sense of the Australian Government. That awareness and good sense can perhaps be facilitated in its effectiveness by constructive comments from Opposition senators, but not by the sort of criticism of isolated issues in the Budget which we have heard in the debate so far. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Before calling  Senator Chaney,  who will be making his maiden speech, I appeal to honourable senators to extend to him the usual courtesies that are extended to a senator when he is delivering his maiden speech. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth:- 
That the Family Law Bill (1974) is a matter of public importance; 
That the subject matter of the clauses of the Bill will ultimately have the widest effects on the lives of the citizens of Australia; 
That the proposals contained in this Bill are not adequately known to the citizens of Australia; 
That the Bill as such has not been the object of the public scrutiny, dialogue and debate which it deserves; 
That for these reasons grave concern is felt that the Bill may be passed before the community is aware of its long term consequences. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote that the Family Law Bill (1974) be made the subject of further community study and that to facilitate this aim the debate on this Bill be adjourned until April, 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport advise the Senate on the ministerial meeting held in Suva, Fiji, concerning regional aviation in the South Pacific? Has the Minister for Transport reported back to the Government on the decisions reached at the meeting? What action has the Government since taken? 
-One really shudders to think about the qualifications which  Senator Greenwood  raised after shopping around for a small trade union to object to this legislation. One wonders what the result would be if the Opposition were ever in Government again. If government was ever to be conducted on the basis that after 5 1/2 years of waiting following the Moore v. Doyle case, 3 years of work on this problem and the presentation of a report to the Parliament 3 months ago the Opposition then felt it necessary to shop around for opposition to this legislation in remote and very small corners of the industrial relations scene, we would virtually have no government at all. 
I am sure you did. 
Where better could one shop than with the federal  president  of the Shop Assistants Union. Not only did the Opposition shop around for  Mr Maher's  telegram. Its shopping around also took the form of letters from the Opposition spokesman in the House of Representatives on labour matters. That is why the amendment was proposed by the shadow 
Minister, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in the other place. In that amendment he said, in effect: 'We needed to be satisfied that a number of unions were happy about the provisions of the Sweeney report. ' As to the attitude of the States one wonders about the stand of  Senator Greenwood  as one who aspires to statesmanship again, about this legislation being desirable and the fact that it is desirable being recognised, for example, in the State of South Australia by the enactment of complementary legislation already. One would think that  Senator Greenwood  as a constructive and potential Liberal statesman would say to his colleagues in the State industrial sphere: 'How about doing something about it?' That would be better than shopping around trying to get State Ministers to send telegrams here in answer to inquiries, saying that they were concerned about certain aspects of the legislation. Earlier in this debate  Senator James  McClelland properly referred to the notion of co-operative federalism, a term frequently espoused on the Opposition benches. In this debate the Opposition is not in any way co-operative but is rather obstructive in every respect except, one hopes, when it comes to a vote on the legislation. 
So I am concerned that in uttering these vague and dire warnings of the dreadful things to come  Senator Greenwood  will encourage his State colleagues in Queensland and New South Wales, and perhaps in Western Australia- no encouragement is needed in South Australia- to introduce legislation which is complementary to the legislation now before the Senate. Of course, that legislation by its passing in this place may provoke in the State field action which is recognised as being so urgently necessary. Also the passing of the legislation might be an important occasion for the Opposition which has on a number of occasions obstructed legislation in the Senate relating to conciliation and arbitration matters because it does not understand the problems which are involved. It might be an occasion for the honourable member for Wannon, who has a feel for industrial relations which a rabbit might have for ping pong, and  Senator Greenwood,  who appears to be the spokesman on industrial matters in this chamber, to give some advance consideration to the industrial needs of the industrial relations community and particularly of the employers, whom one might have thought the Opposition represents, if only in a punitive sense, in this chamber. 
The doubts and qualifications expressed by the Opposition to this legislation can only be resolved when the legislation is passed. Only then will we see whether those qualifications and doubts are in any way justified. It may be that in 2 years' time  Senator Greenwood  can come back to this chamber and say: 'Look, that legislation has now been to the High Court and the doubt which I expressed in the debate on the legislation as to its constitutional validity has now been resolved against the position adopted by the Labor Party'. I am sure that if I am still here I will look very humble when he comes back to make that pronouncement. But, of course, he will have that pleasure only if the legislation is given the opportunity of being tested in the High Court. He will have the pleasure of saying that we were wrong only if complementary legislation is not enacted as a result of his own failure to persuade his Liberal Party colleagues in the States that this legislation is, as he expressed a minute ago, a desirable piece of legislation which should be proceeded with in order that the many problems associated with the Moore v. Doyle decision can be overcome. 
I make those comments because I want to assist  Senator Greenwood,  if I may, in embarking upon that course in the interests of asserting the authority of the senior House of the National Parliament in the Australian community. It is not only an authority to reject legislation from time to time but also an authority which should be asserted in persuading other legislative bodies in this country that legislation of this kind which is, admittedly, so much in the national interests should be passed and complemented by the States in an exercise of co-operative federalism. The problem is a very important one. I wanted to say more about it, but I am encouraged by the benign expression of  Senator Greenwood  as he spoke a few moments ago. My only reason for speaking was to encourage  Senator Greenwood  to convey that benign smile which he gave us in the Senate into constructive channels in urging on his State colleagues the necessity to complement this legislation as quickly as possible and, if necessary, to enable the High Court to deal with the legislation. I am sure that he will do this if he is really concerned about the constitutional validity of the legislation. 
-As honourable senators have indicated, this is a very important matter for this Parliament and the Senate and perhaps a more important matter for the future of the city of Canberra. I believe that it is important that this Senate arrive at a decision based on mature considerations of the practical problems involved in the siting of the new Parliament House, on aesthetic considerations and the visual well-being, if I may call it that, of the future residents of Canberra. There is a history associated with this legislation. There was a previous Senate vote and a recent House of Representatives vote which, I suggest to the Senate, was largely based on the view which the had earlier expressed on the proper site of a parliament house. The Senate is now called on to consider the matter again. I remind honourable senators that it is a different Senate from the Senate which considered the matter last time. It is a very different Senate and there are 1 5 new senators taking part in the vote on this matter. As one of the new senators I felt it my solemn duty to examine both sites which have been suggested for the new Parliament House. I refer to Capital Hill and Camp Hill. I have inspected those sites on 2 occasions, each at 7.30 in the morning, on the last 4 days. 
-At 7.30 a.m., in my track suit, I am reminded by  Senator Baume.  I should indicate some observations which 1 have made in the course of what I regard as my duty as a senator, in the course of those excursions early in the morning. Capital Hill is a pleasant hill shaped like a nubile breast which has been nibbled at by male chauvinist pigs. I refer, of course, to the genus mankind, which has cut all sorts of horrible gouges out of the side of Capital Hill and destroyed its essential symmetry. It is part of the perennial conflict between man and nature that this sort of thing happens. I should say to the Australian Country Party senators that my observations reveal that at this time the whole of Capital Hill is covered with first class strawberry clover. I am sure that members of the Country Party will be interested in that. However, let me come to the fact of this issue and consider the preservation of Capital Hill as a hill. 
-I do not know whether you have been there recently,  Senator McLaren,  but if you have that is possible. I have also visited Camp Hill, which is a pleasant undulating rise sloping gently down to the limpid waters of Lake Burley Griffin. I have made these observations about the 2 sites, essentially agricultural as they are, because I believe they are vitally relevant to the profound convictions which I hold in regard to this matter. I think we should ask ourselves what sort of building we want as a new parliament house, what it is supposed to symbolise and what it will do in a functional sense. All honourable senators must ask themselves those questions. Surely the answer in general terms is that we want a parliament house which expresses the aspirations of the Australian people but which is at the same time dignified and in harmony with its environment. 
I want to turn now to an analysis of what might be called the colline theory of architecture. The word 'colline' is taken from the latin word collis' meaning 'a hill'. I use that adjective with a latin root because it is not only the colline theory of architecture but it is also a medieval theory of architecture. If one examines the history of architecture from Roman times onwards one finds that the main buildings that have been erected on hills have been castles and churches. Castles have been erected on hills in order basically to protect medieval barons from the people and churches have been erected on hills to make man aspire to the kingdom of Heaven. Indeed, in the last Senate vote which took place on this question last year there were 4 honourable senators at least present in this House who certainly aspired to the kingdom of Heaven with greater vigour than perhaps I do and who voted in favour of the Capital Hill site. One of those honourable senators, admittedly, finished up in Ireland. Perhaps on leaving here he did not attain the kingdom of Heaven but, as any Irishman would tell the Senate, he went very close. 
These considerations should not deter honourable senators from changing their minds about the new site of the national Parliament. They should not deter honourable senators from a reconsideration of this matter because, as I said before, this as a new Senate. In erecting a new parliament house we should not use the criteria of medieval barons, of distinguishing ourselves and defending ourselves from the people, nor should be use the criteria of medieval churchmen. We must as honest Australian parliamentarians act with integrity and render under Caesar the things which are Caesar's and to God the things which are God 's. I am sure that there is no honourable senator who at this moment in this debate would be prepared to say that, having regard to the performance of this House in the last 3 months, we were anywhere near to erecting a kingdom of God when we created a new parliament. 
I ask: What sort of parliament building do we want? Again the question arises: Do we want one which symbolises the aspirations of the people as they are 'on the level' of people or do we want one which symbolises the aspirations of politicians? Surely there is no quarrel with the proposition that one cannot make statesmen out of politicians by putting them in a castle or by putting them in a prominent parliament house which dominates the capital city of Australia rather than being sympathetic with it. I remind honourable senators of what happened to the residents of the tower of Babel and many other residents of edifices constructed upon hills in the way in which the symbolic view of Capital Hill is expressed. 
That is true. There were others who did. Is the honourable senator suggesting the lake as a possible site for parliament house? I take it that, from what I have said, honourable senators may now begin to suspect that I am opposed to the Capital Hill site. When I talk about a house of parliament which expresses the aspirations of the Australian people I urge honourable senators not to go back to the medieval view of architecture- to the idea of a building which dominates a city rather than harmonises with it- but to go to a building which is in harmony with both the city in which it exists and with what I respectfully suggest are the true aspirations of the people of Australia. 
One might ask, for example, what groups in our community identify with the suggestion of a parliament house erected on a site like Capital Hill. There are numerous groups in our community which might well identify with Camp Hill. Let me give some examples which spring readily to mind: The Outward Bound Movement, the Boy Scouts Association, the Returned Services League, the Association of Manufacturers of Canvas Goods, the Girl Guides, Gay Liberation and the Aboriginal Advancement League. Those 7 groups immediately appear to me to have some logical identification with a site such as Camp Hill. I turn to some practical considerations with which all honourable senators should be concerned. It is quite clear that if a new parliament is to be erected on Capital Hill the construction will be a long and very difficult process. The site of Capital Hill is, by all architectural considerations and by all planning considerations, a very difficult site on which to erect a building. It is a site which is restricted by the very structure of the hill itself, by the roadworks which surround it and so on. 
I have received considerable advice from my colleagues as to why roads were built around Capital Hill. I appreciate all that advice but the fact is that those roads are there and any architects or planners who have considered the Capital Hill site have all come to the unanimous conclusion that it is a difficult site upon which to erect a building of this kind. If one looks at the other side of the problem one realises that it is a pleasant hill. I put to honourable senators that there is something to be said for a pleasant hill uncontaminated, as it were, by the works of man. 
I would certainly support any Bill which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack introduced into this House to stop anything being erected on the site of Capital Hill because  I  think that, as it relates to the other hills in the city of Canberra, it is much better as a natural object without any human edifice on it at all. The great practical advantage of Camp Hill as against Capital Hill is that a building could be erected on that site relatively quickly. It is a site which relates in physical building terms to the present parliament building. For example, there is no reason why a building should not be built on the Camp Hill site in stages. Certain facilities now provided in the present parliament building could be transferred to the Camp Hill site as the building progressed. A building or buildings could be erected there which related directly to the present parliament building. As the process of building went on the transfer could be made, in a very practical way, from the present Parliament House to the new building. Honourable senators are fully aware of the very grave disabilities we suffer in terms of accommodation. We suffer difficulties in terms of all sorts of physical facilities which just are not properly provided in the present building. 
We, as the 1970 decade members of the Senate, have no prospect of ever occupying a building which would be erected on Capital Hill. In saying that I am not predicting any dire election results in the foreseeable future; I am talking about this in terms of man's longevity. Very few people in this building could ever expect to take part in any deliberations in a parliament building erected on Capital Hill. We should realise as a matter of practical consideration that this present building is a temporary structure. It was erected as a temporary structure. If it is to remain as a permanent structure, it will be a continual source of expenditure as long as it remains here. That cause of expenditure will remain even while a Capital Hill building is being erected. So 1 put it, as a very practical matter, that the Camp Hill site should commend itself to members of the Senate for the very reasons which I have expressed, namely, that it can be the site for a building which is related physically to this building and with which there can be a natural human ebb and flow. 
But, talking in the Senate, I would not raise practical matters as the prime consideration. More importantly, we surely should consider the aesthetic considerations which go with both sites which have been suggested. I have made some comments about the theory of architecture which sees it as desirable for buildings to be erected on a hill in some sort of symbolic gesture, as some sort of suggestion of superiority instead of a suggestion of sympathy with other buildings. The great and overwhelming aesthetic and practical disadvantage of the Capital Hill site is simply this: Since this matter was first debated Lake Burley Griffin has been filled. It is now an important feature of the landscape of Canberra. The building in which we are now situated and any building erected on Camp Hill have a natural relationship with Lake Burley Griffin. Any honourable senator who has walked out the front door of this building on a fine, sunny day such as today knows that he can walk with comfort down to the Lake which, as I say, has a natural relationship with this building. This building is erected on a gentle slope which slopes down to the shores of the Lake, there is a very natural relationship between Camp Hill and Lake Burley Griffin. 
There is also a relationship between this site, Camp Hill and the other buildings which are either erected or in the course of erection in what is known as the Parliamentary Triangle. There is now a relationship not only of distance but also of scale between this building and the National Library. Parliament House is slightly elevated above the National Library. There is a relationship of scale with the site of the proposed High Court building as the Parliament building is slightly elevated above that site. I put it to the honourable senators that it is very natural that buildings should have a balance, one with the other, and that there should not be an overwhelming emphasis on one building above every other building in the tiers of Government which are represented in the capital city of Australia. Of course, significantly, Camp Hill was the site suggested for the national parliament building by the great architect after whom Lake Burley Griffin is named. In making that suggestion in the early days Griffin drew attention to some of the considerations which I have raised in the Senate tonight. He had plans- which, I put it to the Senate, were really plans of the 1920s- for the erection of some great public building on Capital Hill. But one does not have to adopt Griffin's view of what should be done with Capital Hill if the parliament building remains in this area. As I put to the Senate before, obviously Capital Hill should be left as a hill, relating as it does to the other hills of Canberra. What I am putting on the aesthetic matter and on the scale of buildings is really, by analogy, important for honourable senators opposite who espouse a theory of federalism. What I am putting is that the parliament building should relate to the High Court building and to the other government buildings in a proper way and not in a way which symbolises perhaps the aspirations of Mussolini rather than the aspirations of Gough Whitlam or Bill Snedden. 

 -Or Senator James McClelland. 
-I do not want to enter into a debate with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack about the aspirations of  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies. 
I am grateful to the Chair for the guidance on this matter. I have an amendment to clause 3 which reads: 
The new and permanent Parliament house and buildings and works associated therewith proposed to bc constructed after the commencement of this Act shall be constructed upon Capital Hill. 
The amendment I wish to move relates only to that clause. I move: 
In clause  3  delete 'Capital Hill' and insert 'Camp Hill'. 
I do not seek to amend clause 4 of the Bill. 
-No, I am looking at clause 3. 1 do not seek to amend clause 4 because I adopt the view- which I believe to be the correct view- that if my amendment were to be acceded to, no buildings should be erected on Capital Hill. I do not wish to advance any further arguments in relation to clause 3 other than those which were advanced by various members of the Senate in the debate on the second reading. I simply say that for aesthetic grounds, practical reasons and reasons which vitally concern this building in its relationship with any future parliament which is to be built the site should be Camp Hill. The words 'Capital Hill' should accordingly be deleted for the reasons advanced in the course of the second reading debate. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) ( 10.5)- I think that honourable senators at least should be informed of some matters that have come to my knowledge in the last 6 months.  Senator Button  has treated us to a series of arguments which give his reasons why Camp Hill should be selected as a site for a new and permanent Parliament House. He based his arguments upon aesthetic reasons. I merely put this point of view because it is inherent in the plan which was circulated last year by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that this House should be demolished in order to provide a parliament sited on Camp Hill. 
Last year 2 gentlemen from abroad called upon me and I entertained them in a suitable way, I hope. They turned out to be architects of world fame. One happened to be an architect appointed by the late President J. F. Kennedy to supervise rebuilding, as necessary, in Washington. The second gentleman was an architect appointed by ex-President Nixon in a similar role. In other words, they were on a panel of architects in Washington. These 2 men represented an era of rebuilding in Washington. The object of their call was, firstly, a courtesy one. But in the course of conversation both of them- separately and together- put the point of view that notwithstanding anything that may be said by architects in Australia, or certainly by those who are not architects and who regard this as a pretty glum looking Parliament House, they thought the reverse of that. They said that they thought of all the parliamentary buildings that they knew of in the world that had grace, dignity and quality there was none that exceeded this Parliament House. They thought therefore, that it would be an act of vandalism if any Parliament were to consent to the destruction of this Parliament House. 
I rise to speak very briefly in relation to the Family Law Bill- perhaps,  Mr Deputy President,  I should warn you of that fact in view of the state of the Senate- because much of the ground which one might cover has already been covered so competently by  Senator Missen, Senator James  McClellend and  Senator Everett  among other honourable senators who have already spoken. The Bill proposes substantial change in the existing law relating to divorce and to the victims of divorce, if I can so describe them. 
I, like previous speakers, have had the privilege of serving on the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which examined a great deal of material on this matter. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is to be complimented and the members of the Committee, particularly  Senator Missen  and  Senator James  McClelland, are to be complimented on the diligence and good faith with which they approached this important social question. I believe that as a result of the deliberations of the Committeeif the Senate sees fit to adopt the report when the legislation is dealt with in the Committee stage- this will be a piece of legislation of which this Parliament can be proud. The bulk of the material which was put before the Committee, in terms of evidence and submissions of one kind and another, led me to the conclusion that the Bill, as recommended for amendment, is deserving of the overwhelming support of this Parliament and of the Australian people. I did not need to be persuaded by the evidence which was put before the Committee, having had some experience, from colleagues and friends and as a legal practitioner, of the injustices and inhumanity, as I see it, of the existing legislation. Those injustices and that inhumanity arise because the present legislation, based, as it is, on a fault ground for dissolution of marriage, is undignified and inhumane in the way it works. 
In my experience, divorce is seen by many people who seek it as some form of punishment because the notion is popular in the community that courts are for inflicting punishment on transgressors in society and divorce is often seen as the last round in a series of matrimonial disputes which may have gone on for many years. The effects of that sort of attitude of the fault concept in divorce is measured not so much in terms of its effect upon the parties, which is bad, but more particularly in the effects upon the children of divorced couples. I illustrate the point I am trying to make by referring to the grounds of divorce contained in section 28 of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1 959. 1 do not wish to do this in great detail, but let me enumerate them. They are: Adultery, wilful desertion, refusal to consummate the marriage- however that might be proved- habitual cruelty, the sexual crimes of rape, sodomy or bestiality, habitual drunkenness, convictions for criminal offences, a period of imprisonment, an attempt to murder or unlawfully kill, failure to pay maintenance and so on. All those grounds for the dissolution of a marriage, which may have lasted many years and may have been accepted for a number of years, involve one human being making allegations of that kind against another. 
The consequent effects not only on those parties but also on the children, if there are any, is one of complete breakdown- if I can use an expression which we are now using in another contextof any possibility of the continuation of a viable human relationship either within or without marriage. The effects on children are simply that frequently a mother or a father has to explain his or her conduct and what has happened to the marriage by saying to the children: 'Your father is not here any longer because he is an adulterer', 'because he is a drunkard', 'because he has been in prison' or because of the sort of reasons which are set out in section 28 of the present legislation. Not only does that undermine for all time the relationship between the 2 parties to the marriage but it seriously undermines, in my view, the possibility of a proper relationship being arrived at after divorce by the parents with each other and with their children so that some degree of family fabric and a proper relationship may be maintained for the benefit of those children. They are basically the reasons which have led me, both as a legal practitioner and as a member of the Senate Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, to reject entirely the present fault grounds for dissolution of marriage. The experience of most legal practitioners, of most marriage guidance counsellors and indeed of the majority of commentators on the present divorce legislation has led them to the conclusion that the legislation of 1959 is not working in 1 9 74, that the legislation of 1 9 5 9 is no longer socially desirable, that divorce will go on and that in 1974 if that is the case it is desirable that divorces be conducted with the utmost dignity for the people involved and more particularly for the children involved. 
There has been much discussion in the course of this debate about the fact that there is an increasing divorce rate in Australia, as there is in most other Western democracies. I think it proper that we try to examine as a serious matter in the course of these proceedings in the Senate the reasons for that increasing divorce rate. As  Senator James  McClelland and others have told us, marriage as an institution is still extremely popular. Prior to the Industrial Revolution it was part of a much wider network of social relationships. It involved not only the parties to a particular marriage but also a whole network of relationships with relatives of various kinds in what might properly be called an extended family. However, in the 1970s the extended family relationships which existed and which, I believe, may have been a very strong bolster to the institution of marriage, no longer exist to the same extent in urbanised societies. The current urban society is anonymous. Its people are alienated from each other, and its family units are no longer of an extended nature in that they are alienated by distance and by the complexities of travel in large cities and so on. The romantic view of even the 19th century of the marriage which came about through a relationship with the girl next door progressing through school, and so on, to ultimate marriage and the establishment of a stable peer group, is no longer possible. 
Today engagements tend to be of shorter duration and are part of a much more anonymous society than the one which existed when marriage was a truly viable institution of the extended family. What I am really putting is that the problems of existing marriages are not problems of marriage law or divorce law. They are problems of the pressure which our society inflicts on the marriage institution and on human relationships generally. We, as legislators in this Parliament, all have a responsibility, whether we are considering social welfare legislation, economic legislation or the various other types of legislation which come before us, to consider the effect of that legislation on these types of pressures which exist in our society which are detrimental to the institution of marriage and to human relationships altogether.  Mr Deputy President,  I put it in the words of Peter Berger, the eminent American sociologist and theologian, who. said: 
Divorce is not a denial of the importance of marriage. On the contrary it is an affirmation of the crucial need for meaning and self-validation through an intimate relationship. 
I believe that that sort of view of human relationships is supported by the work of a number of Australian sociological institutes and other organisations which have arrived from practical experience at much the same conclusion. I refer, for example, to the work of the Cairnmillar Institute in Melbourne where the experiences of social workers reinforce the view that a relationship which is maintained by the parties being locked together, as it were, is not one which can be anything but acrimonious and socially undesirable. It has been suggested that this legislation in fact constitutes an attack on the institution of the family. As I said earlier, the family as an institution is under attack, and it is under attack because of the pressures of urban life, the alienation of citizens one from the other, and an inability to cope with the pressures and complexities of life generally. There is no indication that that situation will get anything but worse. I remind the Senate of works such as 'Future Shock' by Alvin Toffler which suggests that these pressures will greatly increase. 

 Senator Baume referred at some length to these inadequacies which exist within our society. I agree with many of the criticisms which he made and I will support any private member's Bill which he introduces into the Senate to try to tackle some of the problems to which he referred. However, I do not think that this Bill is the appropriate one in which to try to legislate for all the problems of human relationships to many of which  Senator Baume  referred. The simple point that I would try to make about this matter is that we cannot preserve the institution of marriage, if that be considered desirable, by constraint. I am reminded of Aldous Huxley's work 'Brave New World' in which happiness was attained by the citizens of that society by taking a soma tablet. I regard some of the views which have been expressed in opposition to this legislation as in the same way trying to prescribe for citizens in our community a happiness remedy which is seen by the protagonists of that view as being constituted by the institution of marriage and an absence of breakdown of marriage in a significant way. 
I think that it is important to distinguish between the bond of a happy marriage and the miserable bondage of an unhappy marriage. For those who enjoy the bond of a happy marriage it can surely be said that they are to be envied. For those who suffer the bondage of an unhappy marriage it is surely the task of legislators to see that that unhappiness can be ended. Some of the criticisms which have been made range from those profound and, I believe, quite sensitive criticisms of, for example, the Catholic bishops' statement. In their concern to preserve the institution of marriage, for reasons which are expressed in that document, they set out a number of considerations which they regard as important in the institution of the family. Of course, most of the comments made in the bishops' statement go directly to this question of trying to arrive at legislative systems for relieving the pressures which are placed on people both in families and elsewhere. 
I think it is proper to say that the institution of the family must be seen in its historical context and as subject to change under contemporary pressures which cannot be relieved or even improved upon by legislation of this kind. There are, however, some other criticisms of the legislation which I think can be described only as irresponsible. For example, one claim made by a body known as the Foundation for the Family in relation to the fault ground is as follows: 
Fault should be disclosed so that a possible future spouse of the guilty party can be aware of the type of person with whom a marriage contract can be made. The law protects the citizen from contracting to buy a second-hand motor car which has revealed 'faults'. Is the contract of marriage not more important than the purchase of a second-hand car? 
Of course,  Senator Missen  pointed out that there is a high incidence of re-marriage amongst divorced persons, and that is an obvious factual answer to that sort of a comment. But it needs more than a factual answer because it is in itself an indictment of that view expressed in comments of that kind. It is a view which in the first place tries to draw an analogy between the contract of marriage and contracts of another much more venial kind, if that is the right description in the circumstances. 
-I am using the word 'venial' as it might be denned not in the 'Shorter Oxford Dictionary' but in a more technical theological sense. 
-I am indebted to  Senator James  McClelland. My Latin fails me, but I am sure that there is an appropriate expression to describe a theological term of art. The point that I am simply trying to make is that we are concerned with this legislation on human relationships and the viability of human relationships. To draw this kind of analogy is nothing but a commentary on the lack of understanding of human relationships of the sort of people who make comments of that kind. In dealing with this legislation I think it is perhaps necessary to say that in our society there are people who are very adamantly opposed to the legislation and, I quite frequently believe, they are opposed to it for reasons which they see as being sound. But of course we live in a pluralist society, and we should not just use that expression without making some effort to analyse what it means. 
It may be a very shallow analogy to say, for example, that a change in the price of meat should not affect vegetarians and, accordingly, that a change in the law of divorce should not affect people who are happily married, who are in that fortunate position. That may be a shallow analogy because divorce may be said to affect in some way the fabric of our society if one accepts the view, which I think we must subject to critical analysis, that the family is not itself a changing institution and that the tendency in our society is for relationships to develop outside the marriage extra-marital relationships- in a way to which we might not have been used some 20 years or 25 years ago. But I think we have to accept the consequences of living in a society where there are people with different social and personal problems. We have to accept the consequences of living in a society in which there are people who are happily married and those who are not. Of course, this legislation is concerned with those who are not happily married. 
This legislation does direct itself in a positive way to trying to grapple, insofar as man-made institutions can do, with the preservation of family relationships and of human relationships in a much more meaningful way than I believe the existing legislation does. I refer to just 4 matters which have been dealt with in great detail by my colleagues on the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The first of those relates to the provision of a family court. I urge senators who have some doubts left as to whether the present fault ground should be maintained to spend some time in the forthcoming break visiting divorce courts or magistrates courts in which matters relating to custody of children, maintenance and so on are being dealt with. 
I believe that the divorce court as it is currently constituted in most States is one of the most degrading institutions in our society. Its atmosphere is one of suspicion and allegation- often false allegation, I believe. Not only does it become a court which is concerned to break legal bonds; in most instances it has become a court which breaks most human bonds in the same process. I invite senators who are concerned about the maintenance and custody of children to visit magistrates courts and observe the atmosphere in which these matters are dealt with. I put to the Senate that it is a most degrading experience in terms of the social wellbeing of our community. 
This legislation proposes a family court. I wish that all honourable senators had had the opportunity to hear the views of the witnesses who gave evidence to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and particularly the evidence of Judge Burnett of the South Australian Family Court. We heard the views and experience of a very distinguished South Australian legal practitioner, now a judge, who after years of almost despair and synicism, as he put it, over the operations of divorce law and its effects in Australia, is now a judge of the Family Court of South Australia. We gained the impression from him- and I hope that some honourable senators will have an opportunity to visit the South Australian Family Court and to observe it- of a court which deals with problems which come before it with great dignity, humanity and compassion. 
It is set in a physical environment and atmosphere far away from the courts which are associated in the minds of most people with criminal matters and various ether matters involving money transactions. It is set quite apart. It provides its own welfare and counselling facilities and the judge plays a relatively informal role, almost as an adviser to the parties, and ultimately if reconciliation cannot be effected providing the particular orders in relations to custody, maintenance and so on. Its atmosphere is totally different from that with which lawyers are currently familiar. I commend the family court proposals to the Senate, without dealing with them in any detail, as a new and desirable social concept. 
I likewise commend the reconciliation provisions which under the 1 959 legislation have become recognised by practitioners and observers generally as nothing more than a farce. The new reconciliation provisions, as other speakers have informed the Senate, will make available expert counsellors and advisers at an early stage and will do so before proceedings have even been started in the courts. As  Senator Missen  pointed out, we have in Australia a quite desperate need for increased expertise and the availability of persons trained in the social sciences. We have a quite desperate need, if this legislation is passed, for lawyers who have a much greater appreciation of the social sciences. I hope that this need for the ancillary skills of people trained in these disciplines will be fulfilled and these services will be available to the courts in the future. 
I turn now to the question of legal aid in divorce. Under the present legislation legal aid has been largely absent and questions of whether a marriage unhappily constituted can be dissolved, custody and maintenance have in many instances been the prerogative of people who can afford them. The Committee's report recommends a substantial improvement in this situation so that future family problems will not be determined in part by the availability of finance to the parties involved. 
Clause 9 1 of the Bill provides for the establishment of a Family Law Advisory Committee in respect of which a new draft section has been suggested in the report of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. The importance of the establishment of such a body is simply that it recognises something we have lost sight of in the last few years, namely, the fact that marriage is an important social institution. It is a social institution which is subject, like everything else in our society, to changes in social mores, views and pressures generated from within our society. The suggestion to establish a Family Law Advisory Committee to see family law legislation as a continually evolving and growing thing is a very important recommendation of the Committee and a very important provision in the Bill. 
For the reasons which I have given and which have been given in much more detail by earlier speakers I believe that this measure has the support of all those people who are concerned with the problems with which it seeks to deal in a practical and personal way. It is supported by marriage guidance counsellors and social workers. Judged by the correspondence one receives as a senator it is supported by all people who have had some personal experience of problems associated with the existing legislation. I believe that it is also supported by the majority of the Australian people and that belief is reinforced by the figures which  Senator Missen  had incorporated in Hansard this morning. 
Since 1 959 our society has changed. The views of the majority of the people have changed considerably as changed pressures have affected human relationships. In the minds of most people an obvious need has developed for a revision of divorce legislation. At the Committee stage we will no doubt have an opportunity for discussion, and one hopes agreement, on many of the issues suggested in the report. At this stage I am concerned for reasons which I regard as being of fundamental principle to the wellbeing of our society to support the second reading of this Bill. 
-1 present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We support the introduction of Family  Courts  and the single non-fault ground for divorce based on 12 months separation. 
We also support the change in maintenance provisions to end the subsidy for life system and to base maintenance on the real needs of all parties involved. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should not delay the Family Law Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 35 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We deplore the tactics of the opponents of the Family Law Bill in seeking further delays for its implementation. The Community has had more than adequate opportunity to examine its contents and implications. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should not delay the Family Law Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a report in today's 'Australian' accusing the Senate Opposition of causing 'a childish impasse' over the Australian Parliament's delegation to the Constitutional Convention by its insistence that  Senator Steele  Hall should be excluded from that delegation? Does the Minister recall that during the referenda associated with the 18 May election Opposition senators campaigned against the referenda on the basis that the proposed constitutional changes should be considered by the sessions of the Constitutional Convention which have now been abandoned? Does the Minister have any views on the desirability of continuing the Convention and the likelihood of its producing any solutions to Australia's present constitutional difficulties in these circumstances? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee B relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
, asking a number of questions without notice and making a number of shadow ministerial statements without leave. The members of Estimates Committee B asked a number of questions of officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In relation to some of those questions it appeared afterwards that the Committee was not satisfied with the answers that had been given. That, of course, is what appears in our report. Neither members of the Government Party nor members of the Opposition Parties who were on that Committee at the time requested further information from the Minister. These comments were made subsequently when the report was being compiled. 
On the basis of a misreading of the Committee's report to the Senate,  Senator Greenwood  has taken it upon himself to make an attack on the Minister. I want to come back to that in a moment in the light of what the Committee said. Before doing so, I should say that the first step in the attack which was made by  Senator Greenwood  was on the basis that the Minister was in some way a candidate for the Presidency of the United Nations and that the attempts which the Government had made to reach rapport with a number of countries of the Third World had been made purely for the purposes of securing the successful candidature of the Minister for Foreign Affairs for that position. The only matter of record in the Senate regarding this is a question asked by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on 1 6 August this year in these terms: 
I preface my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by saying that I have become engrossed in the current speculation that an Australian is a candidate for the presidency of the United Nations. Will the Minister inform me what overtures have been made to the so-called Third World group for support for such candidature? What overtures for such support have been made to the communists and Cominform countries by recognition? Are recent diplomatic and socalled initiatives part of the campaign and do they explain the diplomatic shifts in our foreign policy now observable? Will the Minister agree that this is reminiscent of the Evatt candidature in the late 1940's? 

 Senator Willesee, the Minister, replied: 
I am glad that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has become engrossed in the possibility of an Australian being elected  president  of the General Assembly next year. No, we have not approached any of those groupings because it would be plain stupid to do it. They do not have a vote. 
That is the only matter of record in the Senate on this question.  Senator Greenwood  has had ample opportunities in question time, of which he usually takes advantage in one way or another, to ask further questions about this matter. Instead, today, on the basis of this Committee's report, we have been subjected to a whole series of rhetorical questions about the direction of the Government's foreign policy. If  Senator Greenwood  really wants to know the answers to those questions he will find them in statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on numerous occasions. 
On numerous occasions; and statements were made by the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition before the 1972 election. These are statements which have been adhered to by the Government since it came to power. I should like to return to the report and simply say that I concur with  Senator Davidson  on this matter. The members of the Committee were concerned that in regard to Australia's contributions to various United Nations organisations and so on, there was no representative of the Department of Foreign Affairs present who seemed able to give us a detailed and precise account of how our payments to those bodies, by way of affiliation fees or by other means, were made up. In our report we set out quite clearly and carefully that we felt that officers should have been available to provide that material. No criticism was directed at the Minister in the course of this Estimates Committee hearing on this question. No information was asked for by any individual senator in relation to these specific matters which was not provided. The comment was made only in the drawing up of the report that it was felt that in future it would be advisable for appropriate officers of the Department to attend in relation to this particular question. To use that statement in the report as a launching pad, as it were, for a tirade against the Minister is just a non-sequitur of outstanding size and only  Senator Greenwood  could indulge in it. 
I am grateful to  Senator Durack  for attributing the virtue of generosity to Senate Estimates Committee B and to myself. I am afraid that I cannot attribute the same virtue to him. Certainly I cannot attribute the virtue of diligence in reading our report because I think it quite inappropriate to attack- this seems to me a matter of logic- the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  about single line appropriations considered by Estimates Committee B which were in fact single line appropriations for another department altogether, namely, that of the Special Minister of State. That is where the Committee directed its criticism about single line appropriations and not to the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I draw attention to  2  other matters raised by  Senator Durack.  In speaking to this report earlier I said that the Committee was concerned about the absence of officers from the Department of Foreign Affairs to answer specific questions relating to the United Nations and other international organisations and about our contributions to them. In that situation we asked the Minister whether those questions could be given written answers. Those answers which were sought by the Committee appear on page  9  of the appendices to this report. At that time every member of the Committee as it sat was satisfied that those written answers should be given. They were given and they were accepted by the Committee when it met this morning. So it is not a fair criticism of the Minister or of the Committee to say that those answers were effectively not given. They were given. Our criticism was made of the absence of officers on the day on which the Committee sat. Paragraph  5  of the report which deals with the matter of aid programs, states: 
The Committee was concerned at the lack of any detailed report to the Parliament relating to Australia's aid projects and thanks the Minister for his assurance . . . 
The context in which that arose was in answer to a set of questions from  Senator Davidson.  He asked a series of probing and thoughtful questions about Australia's aid program and the estimates for that program. But to say that the Committee by paragraph 5 of its report was doing anything more than saying that it would like further information on the matter- not at the Estimates Committee hearing, but in due course- is to draw something out of the paragraph of the report which cannot properly be drawn. In general I say about the report of Estimates Committee B simply that I believe that as a committee of the Senate we acted in good faith. As a senator one has a role to protect the interests of the Senate and to see that at all times as much information as possible is made available to estimates committees. But in acting in that degree of good faith, which I believe all members of the Committee did, we did not open ourselves to anything more than that. We did not open the Committee to the criticisms which have been raised here today on a purely party political basis. 
Yes, the honourable senator was. What the Committee did was to put a forthright view about what happened at the hearing of the Estimates Committee on the first day. If we are to be blamed for the circumstances in which this matter arose, as I pointed out and if that is to be used as an attack on the Minister the Estimates committees will be deterred from doing that sort of thing in the future. 
-The point I am trying to make which  Senator Greenwood  seems to have gravest difficulty in understanding- it might be my fault but I suspect it is the honourable senator'sis that nobody on the Committee raised the criticism in the way in which the honourable senator seeks to do. 
-Nobody in the Committee raised the question which the honourable senator now seeks to raise.  Senator Carrick  cannot but agree with me that when we met this morning there was unamimous acceptance of the answers which were given by the Department. 
-And of the report. I do not back away from it. I was there for the whole time so I know what happened. The point which I simply make. is that if  Senator Greenwood  wants Estimates committees to present reports which are prejudiced by party political allegiences then, as I understand it, that cannot be the correct function of an Estimates committee. 
-I present the following petition from 46 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1 974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bil! in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we are concerned at letters in the press inferring that the Family Law Bill should be delayed. We are opposed to such action on the grounds that there has been ample time to discuss the bill with the community, and we are informed and believe that many submissions have been considered by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and the report of that committee is substantially in accord with the Family Law Bill. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Your petitioners believe in the principle that every Australian child, irrespective of the school he attends is entitled to economic support for his basic educational needs from the funds placed at the disposal of the Australian Government through taxation. Further they believe that as a direct result of the recent Budget measure to reduce the taxation concession for education expenses from $400 to $130 a significant level of economic support, hitherto received, has been withdrawn. 
Your petitioners believe that this Budget measure is regressive and is unjustifiable as of discrimination inflicted on parents struggling to keep their children in independent schools. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action will be taken to remedy this act of discrimination. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Mr Staley could not spell  social welfare ' let alone go. 
When we have this sort of reaction from  Senator Button  together with the explanations given by  Senator Wheeldon  one ought to question whether this Assistance Plan is or is not being used for the purpose of political patronage. I said earlier that the function of these interim committees was to establish some sort of welfare program. We have not been told what the definition of 'welfare' is. Welfare may be best asserted by having a Labor Party member in the district and that may be the way in which the money is meant to be expended. I do not know. But quite apart from that question, these interim committees are supposed to form themselves into a social council. Once they have formed themselves into a social council they are supposed to create a company registered under the Companies Act of the particular State. We have had that happening in Victoria. 
I think it is instructive to read this document headed 'The Guidelines for a Pilot Program' to see the specimen memorandum and articles of association for the companies which are supposed to be formed by these committees. If ever there is an indication of how to control the operations of a company it is contained in this document. Anyone who wants to misuse companies for their own purposes ought to read this document because they will get a lot of instruction. This interim committee presumably decides to form a company and therefore it has to have the subscribers to the memorandum of a company. My recollection is that S subscribers are adequate in order to form a company. When those subscribers have formed a company and have formed the articles of association there is in existence the embryonic means of conducting the affairs of that company. 
How is it to be conducted? It is to be conducted by an executive committee. Who is to form that first executive committee? It is to be constituted of 12 persons. It is all set out here in this document. Twelve are to be appointed by the subscribers to the memorandum. What are the powers of that executive committee? It will then determine whether it wants to have on its council the members who have been appointed by the State Minister for Health. There is a power of veto if the executive committee does not like them. It is to have on its committee 2 members appointed by the Commonwealth Minister for Health or the Minister for Social Security. If the executive committee does not like them it has the power of veto over them. It is to have all sorts of other people representing bodies within the region- municipal bodies, associations and other welfare groups. But if the executive committee does not regard that organisation as being an organisation really concerned in welfare projects it can exclude it. All power rests in that executive committee. 
Who, may I remind the Committee, appoints that executive committee? It is appointed by the subscribers to the memorandum. May I ask who appoints the subscribers to the memorandum? Will the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation inform us? Will he say how those people are appointed? If he does he really will be breaking new ground. I believe that at the present time the persons who appoint the subscribers to the memorandum are the persons approved by the Minister for Social Security and his minions and in the sense it is nothing more than a means of political patronage. 
I accept, as my colleague  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has said, that there is a genuine feeling throughout the community that this type of assistance program has a tremendous amount going for it. There are a lot of people who see in it a future which could revolutionise the provision of welfare in this country, members of the Opposition are amongst those people, but we do not believe that the program as at present devised ought to be subject to the manipulation to which it is subject at the present time. Let us combine all the goodwill that exists in the community. Let us ensure that proper welfare purposes are served, but let us make sure that there is a proper procedure under which the members of these committees are appointed and under which the money which is able to be dispensed is dispensed. Let us make sure that it is not a means of dispensing political patronage. I believe, for all the simulated indignation which the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation can raise, that this is one of the functions which this Government believes its assistance program is promoting. I believe that we have to examine this assistance program to make sure that the purposes for which the Parliament as a whole believes it can serve usefully are served and that the particular political purposes which the Labor Party wants for it are prevented from occurring. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Proposed expenditures- Department of Health, $99,872,000 and Department of the Environment and Conservation, $3,653,000- passed. 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 8,895,000. 
-I rise under stimulation from  Senator Jessop  purely to clarify one or two matters about the respective attitudes of his Party, the former Government, and of this Government to the question of the conservation and preservation of Australia's unique national heritage. Twice today I have had the extraordinary experience of listening to  Senator Jessop  pursue with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  the question of the preservation of a particular area of geographical distinction in South Australia. On each occasion he has betrayed a substantial delusion, I suspect, as to the concept of preservation upon which this Government has embarked. When the 
Minister answered the honourable senator's question this morning he pointed out that under the last Government he, as an Opposition senator in those days, had raised the question of the preservation of this piece of land without any success whatsoever. 
The point I really want to make is that that was typical of 23 years of Liberal governments in Australia and the concept of preservation as they understood it really amounted to nothing moreand still does- than the preservation of the interests of superannuated charity workers and party donors who received knighthoods and the preservation still of a rather pompous and irrelevant national anthem. But this Government has an entirely distinct concept of preservation- as to what is important in the Australian national heritage and what indeed is unique. I invite  Senator Jessop  to look at the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate where he will see that all these matters such as the one to which he referred will now be referred to that Committee for consideration. They will include matters which concern not only unique geographical features, unique natural and botanical features of this country but also the preservation of historical buildings which are important to future generations of Australians. 
There is much debate in this place on the level of unemployment and things of that kind. Unemployment levels come and go and of course they came and went with monotonous rapidity under a series of Liberal governments. But the point remains that in 23 years of government the Liberal Party did nothing about this very important question of preserving unique historical and natural features in this country. I think it is a very great tribute to the Government and to the Department of Urban and Regional Development that this Committee has been established, that it is now pursuing its work and the sort of matters about which  Senator Jessop  now expresses great concern are being considered by that Committee on a continuing and on-going basis. So I point to that difference in the concept of what it is important to preserve in this country and to the work of this Committee as representing a distinct and ongoing aspect of the national aspirations of Australian people which are sometimes ignored by the Opposition. 
-I rise to make a personal explanation in relation to yesterday's Hansard in which I was described as a senator from Tasmania. I have considered the consequences of the matter. They seem to place me in a dilemma. I am an honourable senator who is the subject of defamatory advertisements in newspapers; alternatively Tam a senator who is a member of the Liberal Party; and the third possibility is that I am a so-called independent senator. I do not contemplate those situations with any equanimity of mind. .In those circumstances I feel that I should explain to the Senate that I am, in fact, a senator from Victoria. As a new honourable senator I regard.it as onerous to be placed in that dilemma. . . . . 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to articles in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 18 November 1974 which mention further examples of obstruction of various Australian Government initiatives by State Premiers in Western Australia, Victoria and Queensland. In the interests of the citizens of Australia who have twice given a mandate to the policies of the Australian Labor Party, will the Minister prepare a statement for the House listing the range of measures which are being frustrated by antiLabor State governments. 

 -Mr President, my question is addressed to you as the Presiding Officer of this House. In view of recent Press statements, would you consider the possibility of installing a bed of hot coals on the Opposition side of the chamber to enable Opposition senators to reaffirm their loyalty to their Leader,  Mr Snedden,  on each occasion they enter the chamber to vote on a division? 
-I rise to oppose this amendment. In doing so I should perhaps point out to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that I think  Senator Everett  referred to the long title of the Bill in the context of saying that that really reflected the use of the constitutional power. The definition proposed by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is the first attempt to insert in any legislation in Australia a definition of marriage. If one examines the State Marriage Acts I think one will find that there is no definition of marriage in any of those Acts- or there was not any definition of marriage in any of those Acts. There was no definition of marriage in the Commonwealth Marriage Act of 1 96 1 , either. 
The definition which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson would like to insert in the Bill is essentially an ecclesiastical definition of marriage. While one would not necessarily oppose it for that reason, it does not really seem to reflect the realities of our society in any way. For example, if one reads the definition clearly, it would seem implicit that for the first time in Australian legislation adultery would be contrary to law. That has never been the position. 
-The point I make is that if one reads the definition- 
-Senator Carrick, if I could finish my point you might be able to follow it. The point I was trying to make is that by inserting what is essentially an ecclesiastical definition- of course, under ecclesiastical law adultery is an offence- you are effectively making adultery contrary to law in the definition of marriage in this Bill. The other point I make is that to have this definition of marriage in the legislation is not consistent with other provisions of the Bill. It is not even correct. For example, if one looks at clause  6  which deals with polygamous marriages it will be seen that it states: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of marriage . . . polygamous . . . shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
No. For the purpose of obtaining a dissolution of marriage under this Bill a polygamous marriage would be a marriage within the meaning of the Bill. That is contrary to the definition which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson proposes. Of course, the fact of the matter is that under this legislation as under the matrimonial causes legislation currently in existence, dissolutions are made of marriages which do not fall within  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's definition. I follow the point which the honourable senator is trying to make by this amendment, but I say that it is really inappropriate having regard to the terminology and purpose of this Bill and of the existing matrimonial causes legislation. For that reason the definition should not be included. I oppose the amendment for those reasons. 
-I agree with all the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has said on this point. I should say that the Committee while discussing this matter was less diplomatic than he has been.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who asked a question on this matter should look further down the section and see what the judge might do in these circumstances. One of the things he might do is to adjourn the proceedings to afford the parties an opportunity to consider a reconciliation. It was felt, in addition to the matters which the Attorney-General has mentioned, that for some reason of his own a legal practitioner might have an interest in obtaining an adjournment of the proceedings. As the Attorney-General said, it is felt that the proper consideration in that matter should be the views of the parties and not the interposed view, as it were, of a legal practitioner who might for some reason unrelated to the welfare of his client in the particular circumstances seek an adjournment. That is another consideration which the Committee took into account and which it regarded as important. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (4.21)- Strange as it may seem, I have some concern about the removal of the words by the amendment which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  has moved. I have some experience of people and problems of reconciliation and associated matters. I have gained some experience, as I think many others have, from the work I have done in a voluntary capacity. Frequently parties to a problem have not got the ability to capture, to express or to bring out the very point that they want to make.  Senator Button  said there may be circumstances in which a legal practitioner has regard to his own convenience rather than the convenience of his client. I hope I did not misinterpret the honourable senator. 
Not at all. 
-I want to add one thing to what  Senator Missen  said about this amendment. The Committee did hear evidence from Judge Burnett of the Family Court of South Australia. In the course of evidence he dealt with this point and he told the Committee that it was in fact a practice which the judges of that Court found useful in reconciliation proceedings- to be able to take a party aside in a situation where there was a particular problem which might be resolved by talking to one party and then to the other. He said they had found that a valuable and worthwhile method of bringing about reconciliation in certain cases. I think the Senate should be aware of that practical experience in South Australia. 
-Senator Greenwood will be pleased to hear that, as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I agree with the observations he makes with respect to clause 14 (6) (a) regarding the words 'an opportunity to consider'. I do not know whether this matter may be considered at a later stage. I would certainly support an amendment to improve that terminology. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-I want to add only one point to what  Senator Missen  said. I think it goes a little further than he went. It is desirable that anybody who seeks the assistance of the counselling facilities of the court should be able to do so without being involved in the concept of matrimonial breakdown. I think that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs took the matter as far as that in its considerations. The only other observation I want to make is that until I saw the clause which we seek to amend I never suspected the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  of inelegance of phraseology in anything he did or said. Having seen the clause, I commend the amendment because its terminology is much more elegant than that in the original clause. 
I will be very brief because I could not express what I have to say with the eloquence of my colleague  Senator Everett.  As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, it seems to me that this section departs from the whole notion of a family court as that Committee saw it. It was expressed very well in paragraph 38 of the Committee's report. 
-I understand what appears earlier. Paragraph 38, which I suspect was drafted by  Senator Missen  with great enthusiasm for the concept, says: 
There is a need Tor a new start in matrimonial law and administration in creating a new entity not interchangeable with existing courts. The Court will require new standards and methods, both in its physical environment, its procedural methods and in its approach to marital problems. Court premises should bc separated from existing courts, and business be conducted in modern surroundings with small well provided court rooms - 
The point about that passage is simply this: In approaching this whole question of the Family Law Bill the Committee was seeking to bring a new concept into the resolution of matrimonial problems in Australia. It seems to me that by  Senator Missen  's amendment that concept is now being confused by what really amounts to nothing more than a romantic hankering after the notion of- I think it is called- co-operative federalism. If one elevates the notion of cooperative federalism into an article of faith, as distinct from being an instrument of viable and sensible government, we get into very real difficulties. 
-As a matter of fact I do, but not quite the same faith as our founding fathers had in 1900. The point I am trying to make is that if the notion of co-operative federalism is taken too seriously we can confuse a lot of legislation of this Parliament. As I understand it, that notion is basically concerned with a division of powers in an economic and strictly political sense. But in this piece of legislation- subject to the argument which has gone on before in which  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Everett  have perhaps been the main protagonists- we have to see this matter at this stage of the Committee debate as a proper exercise of the constitutional power of the Commonwealth. It is not the sort of exercise of the constitutional power of the Commonwealth which detracts in any way from the powers of the States. We are not taking away from the States things which they seek in any significant way to preserve vis-a-vis the Commonwealth. We are exercising a federal power which relates to individual citizens in this community and their rights in relation to problems arising with matrimonial dissolutions and the like. That is a very different thing from what I would have apprehended the notion of co-operative federalism to be where there is a clash between the vested interests of the States and the Federal 
Government and a clash in an economic sense or in a strictly political sense. There this notion of co-operative federalism is an area of legitimate debate but it seems to me that in this area where individual rights are concerned it is not an area of legitimate debate. 
What we are concerned with here are the very important personal problems of many thousands of individual Australians. It is in that context that we want to avoid confusion for them. We want to avoid confusion over jurisdictional matters- the sort of practical confusion which would arise, using  Senator Missen  's own example, in entering a building in which the finger post points in one direction to the Federal Family Court and in the other direction to the State Family Court. I think that the amendment is in a romantic sort of way hankering after a notion which is not applicable to this particular piece of legislation. The amendment is dressed up in the guise of providing a limitation on the age of judges who will deal with family court problems. I thought that the Committee was unanimous in the view that judges as geriatrics- that expression has now been adopted - 
Thank you,  Senator Missen.  1 thought that the Committee was unanimous in the view that judges as geriatrics should not deal with family law problems. Surely we are abdicating our responsibilities as a Parliament if we are not prepared to tackle this matter in another way.  Senator Missen  said, with the gravest of conservative forebodings, that a referendum on this issue could not be carried. I am perfectly confident, as is  Senator Everett,  that a constitutional amendment on this issue could be carried, it there was the will to do so, as a way of resolving this problem. 
-Yes, with your help, I am confident that he would. The other thing that concerns me particularly about this proposal is that it involves the whole concept of a Family Court, for which people in this community have been waiting anxiously, with a whole hassle of delays and a whole hassle of different situations which would arise from State to State, as my colleague  Senator Everett  said. These things are all very confusing for individuals in this community who are concerned about one thinghaving their matrimonial problems resolved with the maximum of speed, the maximum of dignity and the maximum of justice particularly to children involved in matrimonial disputation. If that sort of thing is to go on for a long time, as I believe it would if this amendment were carried, the result would be purely one of confusion for individuals in the community who are concerned. 
What we would have would be a situation in which the money for the Family Court was provided by the national Government, the whole concept of the Family Court was provided by the national Government- indeed, by the Senateeverything was provided by the national Government except the sop to this motion of cooperative federalism- misguided as it is in this context- that we should say that there should still be State family courts. I appeal to the Senate not to let this legislation be confused in that way, to step forward in the concept which was set out in the Committee's report, for a new start in matrimonial law and administration in creating a new entity not interchangeable with existing courts. 
I present the following petition from 86 citizens of Australia: 
The Petition ofthe undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully shows: 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under Section 82j of the Income Tax Assessment Act from $400 to $150 is $50.00 below the 1956-57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending school, whether nongovernment or government; and particularly on parents wilh more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to a non-government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already overcrowded and under-staffed. 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should bc encouraged by the Australian government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penally is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourages them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents wilh children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1973-74 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, relates to the salvaging of the bulk carrier MV 'Sygna' by a Japanese salvaging team under the direction of Captain Kintoku Yamada off Newcastle. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether Japanese tradesmen and divers were issued with 3-monthly business visas in order to perform salvage work on this vessel? If not, what type of visas were issued to Japanese salvage personnel and how many Japanese employees have in fact been employed on the salvage of this vessel and obtained visas to do so? Is the Minister aware that there are unemployed professional divers in Australia with considerable experience in salvage work? What inquiries were made by the Department to ascertain the availability of" skilled Australian labour to perform this work before issuing visas to Japanese divers and other employees? 
-I support the recommendation for a period of 12 months' separation. As  Senator Missen  has said, it is a matter of judgment for each of us. In a sense my judgment has been determined by the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of which I was a member. I want to say something about  Senator Durack  's amendment and the context in which it was put. To be fair to him, what he really said was that in this Family Law Bill we have some proposals which in one context he described as revolutionary and in another as far reaching, and I agree with him. He then went on to say that having made those sorts of changes, having introduced a ground of irretrievable breakdown, we should perhaps retreat slightly from that position, and that when we look at the period for which separation must be established we should make it 2 years instead of one year because we may have gone a bit far in establishing the new ground of irretrievable breakdown. 
What I am really putting to the Senate is that the sort of criteria which  Senator Durack  put forward in support of his proposal for 2 years are not logically valid. The period of time is a matter of judgment and is quite independent of the ground of irretrievable breakdown, the establishment of that ground and a number of other factors which are new and have been described as revolutionary in this legislation. I agree with  Senator Missen  when he says that the relevant period must be looked at in the light of other proposals made in the Bill- for example, the almost instant availability of counselling facilities and the whole structure of the Family Court. 
I also remind honourable senators that it is not compulsory, as some have almost suggested by implication, to seek a divorce after 12 months separation. With the amendment to clause 26 (2) a party cannot proceed with a divorce until that ground of 12 months separation has been established, which means that it will probably be 18 months or so before a divorce is granted. It has been said by  Senator Missen  and me that this is a matter of personal judgment. One factor which has strongly influenced me in exercising my judgment in favour of a 12-month period is simply that we are dealing with a situation of marital breakdown in which 2 parties are involved and in which frequently children also are involved. I think it is most desirable that we do everything that we can, even though the formal structure of a marriage has gone, to ensure that as far as possible there is an on-going relationship between those 2 people as human beings and that we should do nothing in this legislation which is likely in any way to disrupt and fracture the possibility of some permanent on-going relationship between the parties, particularly where children are involved. 
It seems to me very strongly that if there is added to the established period of 12 months separation another period of 6 months, 12 months or whatever one likes, it is in that extra period that most likely there will develop between the parties friction and tension which are adverse to any relationship which they might have though divorced and, more particularly, adverse to the future of the children of that marriage. That is to say, if we prolong a situation in limbo too much we will very adversely affect the possibility, of a viable situation developing between that father and that mother if there are children or between that husband and that wife if it is a marriage without children. For that reason I strongly support the 12 months ground, not because we are dealing just with the formal structure of a dissolution of marriage but because in a much more profound sense we are dealing with human relationships and the viability of human relationships whether in marriage or outside marriage. 
I want to comment on this because I think it is most important that in a situation where parties have been married for only 2 years. They are normally young people. It is important that we write into the legislation a provision which ensures that they have taken some positive step in the circumstances to see a marriage counsellor and not merely being given an opportunity to do so. I think this amendment strengthens the reconciliation provisions as a whole, particularly in relation to marriages of that kind, and I strongly urge the Senate to support the amendment for that reason. It is a matter which I think was initially raised by someone else in the chamber. I stress the importance of reconciliation of parties who have been in a state of disarray, as it were, in their matrimonial situation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Postponed Clause 17c 

 -Mr Deputy President, I rise to take part in this debate having heard  Senator Greenwood  in my room where I was behaving as I once thought a senator should behave. I recall the words of the monument in Westminster Abbey to James Vernon who was described as being in the Senate, disinterested, vigilant and steady. That was what I was trying to be.  Senator Guilfoyle  who saw me earlier this evening well knows that that was what I was trying to do. I was provoked to enter this chamber having heard  Senator Greenwood  for the second Wednesday in succession occupying a very large portion of broadcasting time which is available to the Senate and wondering why I did not take more interest in the Broadcasting and Television Bill which was before the Senate a day or two ago. If we did have freedom to move amendments in this Senate, one would certainly move one to control the amount of broadcasting time which is occupied by one individual in this chamber, as it was last Wednesday and as it has been again this Wednesday. 
The Bill which we are discussing is a taxation Bill concerned with the high purposes of the Government which is now in office. It is appropriating money for the purposes of that Government, and it has been used as a vehicle for attacking all sorts of rather petty incidents which  Senator Greenwood  seems to see as some form of moral corruption. Again tonight we have been treated to this sort of plaintive whine about little incidents in which the Government is allegedly involved, but nothing of substance about the essential issues with which this appropriation of money is concerned, with which the Government is concerned, and with which apparently the Liberal Party is not concerned in any major way. 
I draw attention to this point in 2 ways. In the last few weeks in this chamber as we have come up to the Christmas period we have been attacked as a Government in 2 main areas. The 2 things which in essence have been said by the Opposition are that there is no confidence in this community, and that if there is any confidence we tell you you are wrong'. May I use a good illustration of this by referring to a statement made quite recently by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the other place  (Mr Anthony)  when there was a farmer's demonstration outside this building. Honourable senators will recall that  Mr Anthony  played a considerable part in encouraging that demonstration to take place. When it failed  Mr Anthony  issued this statement: 
The Government would be unwise to see today's farmers' demonstration 'fizzer' as a true indication of farmers' feelings throughout Australia. 
Today's attempt to demonstrate rural concern seems to have ignored several basic requirements, which all farmers should understand: The need for proper preparation, cultivation, watering, fertilising. 
The point I make about that statement is that having participated in trying to organise a demonstration which failed  Mr Anthony,  as the Leader of the Country Party, went on to complain, firstly, that the demonstration had not been properly organised and, secondly, that farmers whom he purports to represent do not understand what they are aggrieved about and what they ought to demonstrate about, and because they do not understand these things he set out in this document to tell them what they ought to be upset about. He said it all at great length. It is an insult to the people whom the Country Party claims to represent. It is an insult to the intelligence of every farmer in Australia. 
It is typical of the attitude of the Opposition parties in this chamber; consistently they go out of their way to encourage dissent in this community on all sorts of phony issues and to manufacture phony issues. When they do not succeed in that they tell the people that they do not understand what they really ought to be complaining about. Not only is it true of the Country Party in relation to the rural sector of the economy; it is equally true of the Liberal Party in relation to the business community and that Party's attempts to undermine the confidence of the business community, as it has been doing in this place over a long time. What I put to honourable senators is that the Senate in considering legislation must not be concerned with that negative attitude to Government and that as a House of review we should try to understand the changes which are taking place in this community and changes which are being made by this Government. 
I will illustrate some of the points that I regard as important in that connection. It is important that the Senate should recognise some of the fundamental changes initiated by this Government and should attempt to understand them in a constructive sort of way. I will look at a few of the points. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Your point of order is noted,  Senator Chaney.  In view of the pattern that was laid down from the Chair previously, I shall not uphold the point of order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  As  Senator Chaney  was so attentively following me, perhaps he can pick up the point which I was just making when he interrupted. It is simply this: We are concerned about spending money on the purposes of this Government, and we are concerned- and of course a lot of people are concerned- about what the alternative government, if there is such a thing, might do about the sorts of matters with which we are dealing. I was talking about some of the new initiatives which this Government has taken and which involve the spending of money. I wanted to speak first of all about the charge which is made against this Government that it is centralised and that centralism is some sort of evil force in the Australian community which must be resisted as some sort of bogey which cannot be tolerated. 
The very fact of the matter is that for the first time in Australia 's history a national government is spending money- in a centralist sense, if you like- in a way which is opening up all sorts of new participatory grass root endeavours in this community. Let me refer first of all to the Australian Assistance Plan and to the debate that we had on it in the Senate. When we talked about it in the Senate we had  Senator Greenwood  going off again about some trade union official involved in the Australian Assistance Plan in Altona and worrying about all the things which worried him when he was a Minister in the previous government and which will still be worrying him in 25 years time, however irrelevant they might be. That was the level of the debate that we had from the Opposition about the Australian Assistance Plan. For the first time citizens in our community are being asked to participate and are participating in social welfare endeavours at a grass roots level. That is because of the activities of a centralist government. It is not because of the initatives and activities of the much vaunted State governments about which we hear so much; it is because of the initiatives and activities of a centralist government. 
For the same sort of reason this Government has made money available to the starved area of Australian government, to the starved tier of the hierarchy- that is, local government- for those purposes. Again it involves the participation of people as a result of central government initiatives. Thirdly I refer to the area of open government in the terms in which this Government has acted in the production of numerous reports on all sorts of issues which for the first time have been freely published and which have let the people of Australia know the sort of information upon which policy decisions, right or wrong, are being based. All these matters are new initiatives in Australian society. The level of discussion and criticism of them by the Opposition Parties in the Senate has been totally appalling and suggests that they just do not understand them. Let me give some more examples. There is whole new lists of words in the political lexicon as a result of this Government's initiatives. For the first time, if one flips through the Liberal Party's new platform, one finds all sorts of notions which just did not exist in the last book. 
-I say to  Senator Chaney  that we all know about inflation and employment. They are important issues. As a matter of fact, there is nothing about them in the Liberal Party's book. Let us look at the headings into which this book has been divided. They are all new words to the Liberal Party. There is a section dealing with the environment, which is something of which it had never really, heard 18 months ago. There is a section dealing with conservation, which really did not emerge much in Liberal Party philosophy 18 months ago. There are all sorts of things, including a section on urban and regional development, which are just new concepts in the political lexicon introduced by this Government and copied in this rather insipid, pale way in the new platform which I was reading so avidly in my room when I was interrupted by  Senator Greenwood  and was forced to come into this chamber to say a few words. 
There are all sorts of initiatives which a central government can take that are not only initiatives of spending money and encouraging new endeavours but also initiatives of example. Once again I refer to new things in our society which just did not exist previously and which are examples to the Australian community of what can be done. We can do things in Australia without being the sort of derivative society that we were under the Liberal-Country Party Government that borrowed all its ideas from the United States of America or the United Kingdom. Let us look at the concept of new cities in Australia. The development of Monarto, the development of Albury-Wodonga, the appropriation of the Glebe lands for redevelopment in an imaginative way, the proposed appropriation of 90 acres of land at Woolloomooloo for new development in an imaginative way, the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate, which for the first time has established criteria about the essential heritage of this nation and the sort of things of which, when the petty issues of today are gone, Australian children of the future can be proud, including the vital heritage of the environment, the landscape and the buildings which are so important in the building of a national tradition. Those are all new concepts which the Opposition has shown a little reluctance to support, except in a rather half-hearted way. 
We are told that these are the actions of a dangerous centralist government and we are given little lectures about morality and the importance of the Federal structure. So we find in chapter 2 of the Liberal Party's platform a section which is rather pompously headed Federalism- the responsible exercise of power'. That is a very fine sounding thing, but let us look at how it works. What the Liberal Party says in this place and everywhere else is that there is something sacred about the notion of States in the Australian Constitution and that State governments are per se possessed of some particular virtue which we on this side of the chamber do not seem to understand. The important thing about government is, surely, that it should operate effectively and efficiently in the interests of the people. There is still the quaint notion in the Liberal Party's platform that somehow the State governments- like the Queensland Government, for example- are the safeguards of civil liberties in the community. 

 - Senator Bonner says Now, now'. He should know very well about that. The Queensland Government is no doubt a fine example in his eyes. In the section on the responsible exercise of power we are told about the distribution of power and responsibility between the Commonwealth and State governments and local authorities to ensure the maximum participation of the individual citizen in the decisionmaking processes and as an essential safeguard against authoritarianism. 
-I await the day when, instead of bleating 'Hear, hear', a Liberal Party senator gets up in this place and tells us how the State governments in this country are at the moment safeguarding the individual liberty of the citizen and are bulwarks against authoritarianism, as has been claimed, because if one looks for authoritarianism in this country one does not find it in the national government- one finds it in the activities of the various State governments- and if one looks for efficiency one does not find it in the State governments. 
Let us look at the Government of my own State as an example. Let us look at the Government of Victoria- the brightest jewel in the crown of liberalism, as  Sir Henry  Bolte once described it, the great 'Hamer makes it happen' Government. That Government cannot even spend more than but 24 per cent of the money which is allocated to it for education in a financial year. It cannot do so because its Public Service has not been geared to carry out that sort of imaginative program. The Liberal Government in Victoria has never really seen the needs which exist for the children of that State in education, particularly the needs of disadvantaged children. Everybody in Victoria knows that. The Victorian Government cannot spend the money it has been allocated because it does not have a sufficiently imaginative approach to do so. Let us look at the much vaunted Environmental Protection Authority which was established by the Liberal Government in the State of Victoria. It has now been emasculated and is subject to further review. It was another great State enterprise which was going to show the way but which, as I have already said, has been emasculated. 
Let us look at the transport mess in the State of Victoria. Nothing has really been done in Melbourne. No policy has been developed on freeways. Freeways just end in the middle of a surburb and nothing further happens because there is no real design and plan for what is going to happen in relation to freeways in that State. Let us look at the proposed Newport power station fiasco, which has been raised again and again in this chamber. The establishment of such a power station is the responsibility of the Victorian Government, but its minions in this chamber have raised it in the hope of gaining some sort of assistance from this chamber to get it out of its difficulties. In dealing with the question of federalism as the responsible exercise of power, I refer to that sort of issue as showing something of the ill conceived nature of the view that State governments are somehow efficient in the interests of Australian people and are somehow the bulwarks of freedom and the individual against authoritarianism. 
-I did not say that I would want to do away with State governments, if you want to know the answer to that suggestion. 
I am not here under false pretences. 
I am quite aware of that,  Senator Bonner.  I am able to work that out for myself. I am grateful for the honourable senator's assistance, but I do happen to know that. There may be something else that he can tell me that I do not know- I am sure he can- but that is not one of the things. Before I was so rudely interrupted by my colleague  Senator Bonner  I was making the point that the much vaunted State governments need very close examination as a viable political structure. We must examine the question: What ensures the liberty of the individual in Australia? What is the bulwark against authoritarianism? What is the most efficient and productive form of government that involves the citizens? I put it to the Senate that the imaginative centralist initiatives of the Government have involved for the first time the citizens of our community in all sorts of new participatory endeavours, but the much vaunted State governments have done nothing over the years, and are doing nothing now, to secure those liberties or to secure the involvement of citizens in all sorts of endeavours of that kind.  Senator Bonner  is trying to interject, but if I were he I would not boast too much about Queensland.  His  Premier must be unique throughout the world when one talks about authoritarianism, lack of imagination and so on. 
-Senator Bonner will know something on 7 December. 1 am sure that we will all know something on 7 December. I still do not think that any Australian who is travelling overseas would describe Queensland as the brightest jewel in the democratic structure of Australia and as the most shining example of progressive State governments. If that is what the honourable senator stands for he ought to say that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is his boy. If the honourable senator subscribes to the values of  Mr 
Bjelke-Petersen in terms of individualism and the rights of the individual in terms of new developments in government, he should say so so that everybody in this chamber and everybody listening know where he really stands. 
-Senator Greenwood can talk about their being individualist values. We all know that Mussolini made the trains run on time. I am told that Hitler was an. individualist and that Franco is too. Maybe  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is a good individualist. In fact from listening to  Senator Greenwood  speak in this chamber I would say that his performances were uniquely individual. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)- Senator Carrick,  I appreciate your inviting my attention to that matter. You did not cite the standing order. I explained in response to a point of order that was taken previously by  Senator Chaney  that I would not accept the point of order. I took as my giude the ruling of the person who had occupied the chair before me- a senator of great experience in the chair. Far be it for me to rule contrary to the way he had previously ruled. He set the pattern for this debate. I know that senators have wandered from the text of the Bill before the Senate but that was the pattern allowed by the person who occupied the chair before me. He has greater experience than I have. I will follow the lines that he set here this evening. The point of order is not upheld. 
-I was talking about the money that the Government was appropriating for taxation purposes and under provocation from  Senator Bonner  and  Senator Greenwood  contrasting the approach that our Government adopts to appropriating money for the purposes of the Government with the way that the Queensland Government appropriates its money. 
And spends some, I am reminded. I was making the point that the national government has created all sorts of new openings and initiatives for citizens in this community by its imagination, by the way in which it spends money and by the examples that it has set. 1 will illustrate my point by talking about the section of the federal platform of the Liberal Party that deals with local government, which is a matter for which the Liberal Party, if it were in office, would no doubt appropriate a little money. Part of the document states: 
Local government is increasingly called upon to promote and foster public involvement . . . 
There is nothing very much new about that, but the burden of local government finance should not be borne from rates alone. The platform continues: 
The Commonwealth must recognise and accept a responsibility to assist local government, through the States, to fulfil its increasingly important role. 
-I am about to tell the honourable senator what is wrong with that, if he would wait a minute. It is simply this. It goes back to the point that I was making a moment ago. Everywhere the sacrosanct words 'through the States' must be included in this platform. Even when we debated last week the Family Law Bill, it had to be done through the States. It is stated in the platform of the Liberal Party that we do it through the States because they are somehow the guardians of individual liberty and because they save us from the threat of central government authoritarianism and so on. We must examine these concepts to see what they really mean. The Opposition in this chamber is full of reactionary huff and puff. This is a high sounding document that means nothing when one examines it. One must ask what the Opposition really stands for on these issues. It seems to me that it stands for the notion that the States will somehow be their saviours in every political situation. When we put forward a referendum at the May elections to enable the national Government to provide money directly for local government, it was opposed by the Liberal Party. 
-I know that the people knocked it out. I am saying that it was opposed by the Liberal Party on the same old lines that somehow if one does it through the States, the guardians of individual liberties, they will do it better than if the money is paid directly to local government. The Opposition is afraid of direct participation by the people of Australia in their own affairs; it is afraid of direct participation by the people in local government and in all the areas covered by the Australian Assistance Plan. 
When we look at the money that must be appropriated under this Bill we look at the national endeavours that this Government is making. We look at it in contrast to the rather shabby Opposition that really has done nothing but try to undermine the confidence of the Australian people and has put nothing forward other than these rather empty slogans to which I have referred in the much vaunted new federal platform of the Liberal Party. 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to a reported statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives,  Mr Lynch,  that a number of Government appointed public servants will be 'for the chopping block' under a Liberal-Country Party government? Is it not the right of an elected government to make appointments to senior positions in the Public Service and government instrumentalities, and was not that right freely exercised under the last Liberal Party-Country Party Government? Is it not a fact that two of the public servants mentioned in  Mr Lynch  's threat-  Mr Menadue  and  Dr Wilenski-  were both career public servants under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government with distinguished records in the Service? Does the Minister know of any other incident when a supposedly responsible Opposition politician has threatened public servants with the sack? Is it not a fact that such threats could compromise the integrity, morale and efficiency of the Australian Public Service? 
-The debate on the Government's proposed health scheme has become something of a 'Blue Hills' saga. I want only to make two or three points. In the course of this long debate over the Government's health insurance proposals there have been 2 elections at which they have been put to the people of Australia. 
And rejected, says  Senator Bonner,  which is an obtuse view, if I may so describe it with the maximum of charity and the minimum of offensiveness to him. There have been 2 elections and a joint sitting of the Parliament in relation to this legislation. Even now at this stage, in this chamber, when the Opposition has announced its intention of rejecting this legislation,  Senator Guilfoyle  is referring to what has become almost a new concept in Australian politics- government by Gallup poll. We were told again today that recent Gallup polls show a larger percentage than last year of the Australian people in favour of the retention of a system of voluntary health insurance. I remind the Senate that in the 2 years over which this debate has proceeded in Australia, the Opposition has had no alternative health policy but consistently maintained opposition to the Government's proposals. I welcome the fact that in the Hansard report of the debates in the other place there is recorded for the first time what is described as an alternative health scheme. It involves of course the suggestion that those members of the community who are not currently insured- the figure is put at 8 per cent by  Senator Guilfoyle-  should be brought into what is an existing voluntary health arrangement. I remind the Senate that for a number of years while the Opposition Parties were in Government they failed dismally in any way to bring those people into the voluntary health insurance scheme despite desperate efforts. It is no solution to the problem to say that we can patch up what is essentially a rotten health structure. I said that there was a Joint Sitting and that this legislation had been formerly debated in the Senate. I want to remind the Senate of what  Senator Baume,  who I understand is to speak next, said in the Senate on the last occasion this legislation was rejected here. I refer to the Hansard of 1 8 July 1 974 in which he said: 
We have our right by virtue of election to have our say and to be heard, and it would be quite improper for the Senate to demand that these Bills be put through . . . without new members democratically elected having their say - 
He went on to say: 
I am willing to accept that there is an inevitable chain of events which may unfold. I was elected by people who support the point of view I adopt, people who believe it is right to oppose this bad legislation. They want this view put and put forcefully. 
I interpose that the Opposition has done that.  Senator Baume  stated further: 
I accept the right of the Parliament to hold a Joint Sitting and I will abide by the verdict that it reaches, but we will have our say and will vote as our consciences dictate in the meantime. 
All I wanted to do in this debate was to commend  Senator Baume  for putting in that passage what I regard as a very proper view as to the functioning of Parliament and as to the functioning of this Senate and as to the effects of the Joint Sitting decisions. This Government at 2 elections received a mandate to put forward its health insurance program.  Senator Baume  adopted the very respectable and proper view that it is the democratic right of an elected government to implement its policies. The Government was elected on a particular program about which every voter in Australia was quite clear- that if the Labor Government was re-elected we would get this health insurance program. Everybody knew that.  Senator Baume  knew it when he spoke on 1 8 July. As a true individual democrat  Senator Baume  put forward that point of view in the Senate and I think the whole chamber should be reminded of it. That is what we are really still talking about in this debate here today. There has been no basic change in the Government's program and no basic change in the Opposition's program as it was put earlier this year. The only significant change which  Senator Guilfoyle  can point to is an apparent change in gallup poll appreciation of the voluntary insurance scheme. As I said, I rise briefly to make that comment which is my final contribution to a long saga which looks like ending in some degree of tragedy for the Australian community because of the Opposition's obstruction of this legislation in this place. 
I rise to speak very briefly on this matter which has been very well canvassed and dealt with by my colleague,  Senator Everett,  amongst others. There are several points which I want to make arising from observations of recent speakers. My colleague from Victoria,  Senator Missen,  has been at great pains to moderate and to make more attractive the somewhat crude argument which was put by his leader,  Senator Withers,  in the debate last night. By way of illustration he drew attention again- it has been done several times in this debate and indeed has been done by the Leader of the Liberal Party in the House of Representatives,  Mr Snedden-  to what are described as legitimate fears of the States about the intentions of this Government which somehow justify the sort of action that has been taken. As an illustration of that  Senator Missen  referred to the Housing Corporation Bill. He said that the States had something to fear from that piece of legislation. If  Senator Missen  had examined it carefully he would have seen that the whole purpose of that legislation is to fill a gap which the States have never filled in the provision of housing for certain income groups. 
I understand that it may not be  Senator Missen  's interpretation but if he read the second reading speech and the Bill I am sure he could only arrive at that conclusion. I want to deal very quickly with what seems to me to be the basic difference between the amendment and the motion which was moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  The original motion and the amendment contain, as has been pointed out, nothing more than a difference of emphasis and a difference of degree in the terminology which is used. 
I hope that it is evident to  Senator Sir M  agnus Cormack. 
If  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack will let me continue, in the course of my remarks I hope to point out that there is a difference even though it may be characterised as a difference of degree. The simple difference between the original motion and the amendment is this: The Opposition seeks, by its amendment, to take out of the Government's motion the words: 
The Senate views with the greatest concern reports that the long-established convention may not be followed in relation to the rilling of the vacancy . . . 
And to replace those words with the expression: 
The Senate commends to the Parliaments of all the States the practice which has prevailed since 1949 . . . 
The importance of taking out words to the effect that the Senate views this matter with the greatest concern is indeed very great. 
If the Liberal Party as the great upholder of constitutional tradition in this country and the great upholder of the position of the Senate does not view this possible departure from that convention with the greatest concern and if it attempts to substitute that view of greatest concern with one of commendation, it will be a somewhat meek and mealy-mouthed form of the tradition which has prevailed. This of course is the great note of sadness that has entered into this debate. It is sad that the Party of  Sir Robert  Menzies which in 1 95 1 , defeated on the Communist Party Dissolution Bill by the decision of the High Court, took appropriate steps constitutionallysteps which a Party in that position should take- and sought a referendum to obtain power in connection with that issue. That was the Party of  Sir Robert  Menzies which ever since has encouraged people to believe that it was the upholder of tradition in this country, that it was the upholder of the national heritage in this country, and that it was the upholder of the Constitution of this country. 
It is said that healthy plants do not grow under big trees. That is, of course, what we are evidencing today in the attitude of the Liberal Party towards this convention. No longer are honourable senators on the other side of the chamber speaking with conviction on this matter. They are seeking this mealy-mouthed compromise.  Senator Wright  is attempting to interject. I had been in this chamber only about 3 weeks when I heard  Senator Wright,  the honourable senator from Tasmania, rise and say: 'I stand here as the bulwark of the Constitution'. I, as a young senator, was very encouraged by that. I thought: Whatever happens we have a bulwark of the Constitution on the other side of the chamber who will preserve us in every vicissitude which this country may face politically. I now realise, in view of his attitude today, that  Senator Wright  was not talking about the Constitution when he said that but was talking about his own constitution. He is here to safeguard his own constitution and his own skin. That is why today  Senator Wright  has been strangely silent on questions of principle which have entered into this debate. 
I compare the mealy-mouthed apologia of the amendment moved in this House to the statements which have been made by the Liberals in this country who do stand up on questions of principle. The remarks of the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  have been referred to. He accused the Premier of New South Wales of suffering from a grave psychiatric disorder and in doing so used terminology which is unacceptable in this chamber. He went on to say that it meant we could have a majority one minute and have it taken away the next, quite regardless of the wishes of the people. It was the statement of a democrat in the great Liberal Party tradition, as the Party once was or was claimed to be in the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  in the House of Representatives, warned quite unequivocally that the whole process of government would be at risk if the action of the New South Wales Premier were allowed to proceed. In spite of those sorts of warnings we still have the incredible situation in which the Opposition in the Senate is moving an amendment which contains a very weak commendation of the convention which has lasted so long and, as the Leader of the Liberal Party in the House of Representatives said, has served us so well. It is not merely a self-serving convention. It is a convention which has been approved and commended by the State Premiers, other than the Premier of Queensland. It was commended, indeed, by implication in  Senator Withers'  remarks on Tuesday of this week when the honourable senator dealt with the question of pairs in this Senate. It is a convention which I am sure would appeal to someone like  Senator Wright  much more than the process which has now been embarked upon by the New South Wales Government. 
There are 2 other matters which have arisen in this debate and which I want to deal with briefly. First, however much people might try to cover it up in these proceedings, it has been said by way of condonation of the action of the New South Wales Premier- it was said by  Senator Withers,  and by  Senator Missen  who said it in a nice way- that this Government is so irritating and so threatening to Premiers that they are no longer responsible for their behaviour. That is effectively what is said: They are no longer responsible for their behaviour because of the attitude of the Federal Government. Of course, as I understand it, we are all engaged in political activity of one kind or another. When one comes to the question of the appointment to the High Court which has been made, again a political element enters into that. I want to deal with that in a moment. But the point I seek to make is that the principle which the Liberal Party allegedly stands for- some adherence to convention- has been glossed over in this instance because the Premier happens to be a Liberal Party Premier. We are told that because of the things that the national Government has done that Premier must be excused in some respects for his apparent departure from principles. In fact, what has been done by the Premier of New South Wales constitutes the first clear evidence in this place that he is both politically inept and opportunistic in his approach to this matter. 
The next point I make about the Opposition's amendment is simply that day after day Opposition senators come into this chamber as defenders of State rights, as they like to call it. They also come here as members of the Liberal Party. Is it not time that instead of giving this sort of approval to a convention about State rights they should look as well at State obligations to this chamber? If  Mr Lewis  has a problem which concerns his State honourable senators on the other side of the chamber will be quick to point that out in terms of the rights of New South Wales. But they are very slow to point out to  Mr Lewis  the terms of his obligation under the convention which has applied since 1 95 1 . As I have said we find this backing and hedging. In today's newspaper we find the Leader ofthe Opposition in the other place  (Mr Snedden)  saying that the States should be excused in some way for their attitude because of their resentment of the Federal Government in various other ways. So I draw attention again to the obligations which Opposition senators might have felt in relation to the States. 
It has been said in the course of this debate and by  Mr Lewis,  the New South Wales Premier, that perhaps the action was justified because Lionel Murphy who was appointed from this place to the High Court was not, as  Mr Lewis  put it, of sufficient juristic ability to be appointed to such an office. That has been said by  Senator Scott  in this place. Other honourable senators have recited  Senator Murphy's  long and distinguished legal career. But I think something should also be said in this chamber, discussing the matter as we are here, about the role which  Senator Murphy  has played in this country as a legislator. This is the first time in the history of the political appointment of a High Court judge that such appointment has become in debate the subject of criticism by honourable senators opposite. 

 - Sir Magnus, I said in connection with a High Court appointment. 
I am sorry. I am not old enough to remember that. That was before I was born. But the point I simply make, in case  Sir Magnus  is correct, is that this is the first time since the appointment of  Dr Evatt  to the High Court in the early 1 930s that a political appointment from this side of Parliament has been the subject of criticism here by honourable senators opposite. I think this chamber has some obligation to consider the very great role which  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, played in this chamber as a legislator. That in itself is a qualification for a High Court appointment, quite apart from  Senator Murphy's  distinguished career as a lawyer and advocate. The characteristics which he brought to this chamber as a lawyer were those of innovation, imagination and vast capacity for mastering the details of new legislation. Those characteristics were needed in this country for many years, during all the time the Opposition was in government, but they were never displayed by his totally unimaginative predecessors. 
I think  Senator Murphy  goes from this place, in a sense, as the great prince of the Senate. Over many years of activity as a parliamentarian and as a lawyer  Senator Murphy  has ensured that the Senate will continue to perform a useful function in the governmental structure of this country and that it will continue, by virtue of the committee system, to play a worthwhile and expanding role in the more increasingly complex activities of government in Australia. I think it is most important that that should be said in this chamber when one considers his appointment to the High Court. 

 - Senator Rae, if you are trying to say that  Senator Murphy  perhaps made some political mistakes I for one would not disagree with you. But I was making a comparison with his predecessors, and, in particular, with his immediate predecessor who was one great political mistake.  Senator Murphy  might have been accused of making small political mistakes from time to time. These could be pointed to. But the thing I emphasise about the man is the vastness of his contribution in this chamber as a legislator. This will mark him in the history of the Senate in ways that perhaps nobody else who is here today will ever enjoy. 
I referred earlier to the great traditions of the Liberal Party in relation to this matter in the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies and to the tremendous deterioration of adherence to those traditions. One finds in the Liberal Party platform a vestigial sort of statement about the role of a parliamentarian in matters of this kind. It is expressed in these terms: 
Members of Parliament should possess appropriate qualities, experience, dedication and ability with a proper understanding of the parliamentary system and a respect for its traditions and functions. 
Whatever might be said about the earlier parts of that sentence in relation to Opposition senatorswhether they possess the appropriate qualities of dedication or ability- the fact of the matter is that if they hold a respect for the traditions and functions of this Parliament they should not be so reticent about expressing those convictions with firmness and forthrightness in this place. They should not have taken the step of amending the motion which was moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  and which expresses the gravest concern about the possibility of a departure from those traditions to which I have just referred. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and follows on a question asked by  Senator Brown  earlier today. Has the Minister seen yesterday's Melbourne 'Age ' in which there appeared an article by Kenneth Davidson, the economics editor of that paper, which referred to the simple minded belief that a cut in Government spending would be of benefit to the Australian economy in the present economic circumstances? I ask the Minister: Has the Government any plans for cutting education expenses at this time. 
I rise to speak very briefly in the debate on this Bill,  Senator Greenwood  having gone to some length to elaborate the history of the matter. Listening to what he had to say I was reminded of a dictum by a famous British jurist, Lord Mansfield, who said: 'Give your decisions and never your reasons. Your decisions may be right; your reasons are sure to be wrong'. I was reminded of that dictum during  Senator Greenwood's  speech when he advanced his reasons why this legislation should be opposed.  Senator Greenwood  has tonight, as he has often done in the Senate, sought to fulfil 2 roles. The first role is a political role as a defender of the States in this matter. He describes this legislation as being repugnant to the States. The second role which he seeks to assume on this occasion as on other occasions is a judicial role. He seeks to pronounce in the Senate upon the validity or otherwise of this legislation before the Senate. I think that that second role is appropriate to the High Court and to no one else. I think that this was recognised by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  who introduced this Bill. He said in his second reading speech that if the question of the legislative competence of the Parliament to deal with this matter had to be determined, then it was appropriately a matter to be dealt with by the High Court and the Government was prepared for that to happen. 
-I understand that.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has expressed a number of opinions during the course of this debate. The point I was making in relation to  Senator Greenwood  's objection to the legislation is that they are twofold. The real objection is a political one, not the second objection which he seeks to put forward. The nub of what  Senator Greenwood  had to say is contained in expressions of this kind which he used: 'This is a matter of State concern and not a matter of Commonwealth concern '. He went on to say: 'The right of appeal is a right of the citizen'. Stripped of all the peripheral arguments, that is essentially what we are talking about- the right of the citizen. We are talking about that in the context of whether the expression 'citizen' means citizen of Australia, or whether it means citizen of the State of Queensland or citizen of the State of Victoria. That is the important distinction we are trying to make. That was the purpose of trying to change the emphasis on that distinction. That was the purpose of the legislation introduced by the former Attorney-General,  Mr Nigel  Bowen, in 1968, namely, to try to attach greater emphasis on the importance of being a citizen of Australia. The argument that we are basically left with in this matter is whether the expression 'citizens' means citizen of Australia or citizen of a particular State. 
The argument is put on 2 levels. Firstly, it is argued that it is a matter for the States and citizens of the States, and secondly, it is argued that the method adopted which in essence is contained in clause 7 of the Bill is reprehensible and possibly unconstitutional. Clause 7 states: 
The Parliament requests and consents to the enactment by the Parliament of the United Kingdom of an Act in, or substantially in, the terms set out in the Schedule. 
The Schedule sets out the Act which this Parliament would request the United Kingdom Parliament to pass. In dealing firstly with the question of methodology, as it might be described, let me simply say that this is not the first time this Parliament has requested the United Kingdom Parliament to act in this way. Admittedly, on the 2 previous occasions under Liberal-Country Party governments the legislation in question related to matters which might be regarded as of lesser importance. As J recall, the Bills related to various islands- Christmas Island and, I think, the Cocos Islands- and were passed by the Parliament approximately 1 5 years ago. 
-I follow that, and I would have thought that that really related to the second part of the honourable senator's argument. The argument is put on 2 levels: Firstly, it is said that the method adopted is wrong and perhaps unconstitutional. Secondly, it is said that it is a matter which is the exclusive concern of the States rather than of the Commonwealth Government. 
I wish to reiterate very briefly why we take the view that the matter is appropriate for this Parliament, as the national Parliament of Australia. A lot of sentiment has been expressed here. The reasons for accepting the first Bill probably apply very well to the reasons which we say should be advanced for accepting the other Bill. I do not want to put an argument about ends and means, but I say quite sincerely that if the Opposition believes that Australia has now arrived at a sufficient degree of national maturity and identity, as Canada did in 1947, its quarrel with the method adopted, which has been used before, is a rather unimportant one, having regard to the subject matter in question. We are told that the Opposition is firmly of the view that it is desirable that appeals to the Privy Council be abolished. We are told that it should be done, first of all, by means of the Constitutional Convention which in fact was aborted in its activities by action taken by the Opposition in the Senate only a few months ago. 
No, but we have heard so much about the Constitutional Convention. In the course of all the referendum campaigns we have been told that these matters should be left to the Constitutional Convention. When this legislation comes before the Senate we are told that this matter should be left to the Constitutional Convention. When this legislation comes before the Senate we are told that this matter should be left to the Constitutional Convention. What is lacking in an approach to the Constitutional Convention is any enthusiasm to get on with it and to get on with any of thes issues. The Constitutional Convention has become a large filing tray in which the Opposition can insert anything it does not want to deal with at this stage. According to the Opposition, it will all be left until the Constitutional Convention is held. The Constitutional Convention may be asked at some stage to consider this matter; but, if the Opposition thinks it is right now that appeals to the Privy Council should be abolished, now is the time to do it. Of course the reasons are quite apparent. First of all, there is no reason any longer, as a matter of law, why appeals from supreme courts of the States should go to the Privy Council. The Privy Council has suggested in a number of judgments that it is undesirable for these matters to go from State courts to the Privy Council. There are potentially grave difficulties of confusing interpretations between the Privy Council and the High Court of Australia on a variety of issues which may go either to the High Court or to the Privy Council. The suggestion that appeals should continue to go to the Privy Council is in some way a reflection on the High Court of Australia, although I know that  Senator Greenwood,  for one, would not intend it to be so regarded. But it is a reflection on a court which has been spoken of by eminent jurists throughout the world as a court of the highest significance and quality. It is frequently referred to by British judges as a court which is almost preeminent in the British Commonwealth and it is highly regarded throughout the areas where the 
British common law system exists. To say at this stage that we are still not prepared to leave appeals in the hands of the High Court for reasons which date back to 1900, and in 1900 were foreseen by Deakin as sources of possible problems in the future, is in effect to reflect adversely on that Court as a national institution. 
The next consideration as to why these appeals should be abolished relates to the question of national identity and national self-respect. That has been recognised by courts such as the Privy Council and it has been recognised by other countries such as Canada, where similar appeals have been abolished. That leaves the question of the High Court itself and the view which is put forward that somehow this legislation is an infringement of State rights. It may be seen as an infringement of the rights of certain State politicians. That is what Deakin foresaw in 1900 as possibly happening. It can be said to be so. But as a national Parliament surely we are concerned not with that but with the rights of Australian citizens, and in 1975 we ought to be concerned with that above everything else. As far as the ordinary Australian citizen is concerned, nothing can be said in favour of the retention of this system. Nothing can be said in favour of it from the point of view of the ordinary litigant who would be horrified not only by the possibility of appeals to the Privy Council but also by the possibility of appeals being taken against him to the Privy Council by insurance companies and others. The very high cost to the ordinary Australian citizen of Privy Council appeals is a factor which militates strongly against their continued existence.  Senator Greenwood  referred to the wealth of emotion which attaches to Privy Council appeals. 
-I understand that, but that is not the way the honourable senator expressed it. The emotionalism may beat very strongly in the heart of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, who has now left the chamber, and in the heart of  Senator Greenwood  himself. But that is not a test of the wealth of emotion amongst the Australian people; that is a test of the strength of the emotions of those honourable senators, which really is not the relevant factor in this discussion. If I may turn it round the other way, what does attach to Privy Council appeals is a tremendous emotion about wealth, because that is what is involved. The Privy Council appeal is a device which is open only to the wealthiest litigants, it is not open to ordinary litigants at all.  Senator Greenwood  has put his finger on the point by referring to what he calls 'the British connection'. It sounds like another spy novel. The fact of the matter is that nobody can be pointed to as valuing this connection not even the Premier of Queensland. He does not put his criticism of this type of activity in those terms. He puts it in the light of his own particular positionan apparent feeling of threat to his own situation and not in the light of maintaining the British connection at all. The Privy Council has never put it as being desirable. In 1900 Deakin, as I have said before, did not even regard it as desirable that the British connection as represented in this way should be maintained. 
We are not talking about the British connections in any real sense. We are talking about a mechanical, legal situation. This legislation is designed to overcome the adverse effects of this mechanical, legal situation. I am concerned that the Opposition does not appear to be consistent in its stated attitudes. If the British connection was the important factor the Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Bill would also have been opposed. It is a significant part of the British connection if the other appeals from the State Supreme Courts can be said to be part of the British connection too. It is not really the British connection we are talking about, although we have heard much about it. I urge the Opposition in its consideration of this legislation to heed the virtues of intelligent conservatism rather than the other kind which has been clearly manifest in the one speech we have heard on this Bill in the chamber tonight. I say no more upon this matter because the issue has been very thoroughly canvassed by the Minister's second reading speech and by  Senator Greenwood's  reply. I am concerned that the reply is misdirected and has a confusion of issues involved which are not strictly relevant to the Bill. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (8.52)- I rise to speak merely to display an attitude in which members of the laity can get their feet into this argument. I do not think that all arguments in relation to constitutional law should be confined to those who have been trained to argue legal cases and who, in political terms, move into the area of sophistry and do not acknowledge that nations are built to a large degree on an emotional content. I am well aware that the law is the law and the elements of law may be debated by those who engage themselves constantly in these exercises. 
I heard  Senator Button  saying in a sort of shadowy whisper when I left the chamber to look up something that he was sorry I had left because I appeared to be the last remnant of an emotional content towards the question of the Privy Council. I am not involved in an emotional content in that way at all, but if I am, I look upon the arguments that have been adduced by  Senator Button  and other lawyers on the Government side as involving them in emotionalism. They are involved in a strident sort of emotionalism in that they must demonstrate that they are a pure people who have a purity of mind which can be described in one sense as a form of strident xenophobia. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKXenophobia, a fear of strangers. We have coined a word in Australia to describe  Senator Button  and others on the Government side these days. We describe them as the ockers. They are people who go round in a sort of legal slip slop with sandals which go flip flop along the pavement. We can see them every day. They have hair down over their shoulders and a beard half way to the navel. This is a sort of ocker syndrome we have in Australia at present. It adds nothing to this country. There is a collection of legally trained men on the Government side at present who I can describe only as legal ockers. Their mental processes can be demonstrated quite clearly by looking at the sort of characters who go round with flip flop sandals on their feet. It is true there is a looseness in thinking on this matter. 

 Senator Button involved himself in the most ancient of devices.  His  airing of his legal education and his historical education beginning somewhere at the time of the French Revolution forced me to interject and  Mr President,  at the time, quite properly rebuked me by saying that all interjections are disorderly. The Committee of Public Safety of the French Revolution- the Committee of Twelve- were people who constantly beseeched their Legal power by saying that the purity came from the people. In  Senator Button's  way it comes from the citizens. What this Government is doing in a whole wide range of activities which it is invoking at present, not the least of which is this Bill, is an appeal to an amorphous citizenry who allege to be the people from which all intellectual power is derived. This is the basis of the argument. 
An event occurred in 1901 which  Senator James  McClelland,  Senator Button  and everybody else on the other side prefer to disregard. I refer to the treaty formed between the 6 States and an element known as the Commonwealth of Australia. I find that it is completely disregarded. The Bill before us refers to the Parliament of Australia. The Constitution says that there shall be a parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. This is one illustration of where an attack has been launched upon all the elements that compose the treaty which formed the Constitution of Australia and created the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. By every device that is possible to the cunning of the legal mind, an attempt is being made to break this treaty. The Constitution means a treaty between the 6 States to set up a central government. 
This is the whole gravamen of  Senator Greenwood's  argument in the Senate tonight. The interesting observation derived from listening to honourable senators opposite was that this was a bit of old hat. The conventions under which this treaty was made now have to be subverted by legal sophistries, and a whole new language is invoked in order to give credibility to the sophistries which honourable senators opposite utter. We have reached such an absurd situation in Australia today that politics are conducted on the basis which find their focal point in this Senate on the thoughts of the Australian Mao. He is constantly rewriting the thoughts of Mao. There is a deluge of legislation appearing in the Senate at the present moment, and it is all based on the thoughts of Mao. We almost have to go round - 
All I say is that the original subscribers to the treaty which set up this country have a residual right to appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and we have no right in this chamber, which draws its constituent elements from all the States, to take that right away. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  coming from the State of Tasmania, of which you are a most distinguished representative, have an equal right to be in this place to that of someone representing the metropolitan State of New South Wales. There are 10 senators from Tasmania and 10 Senators from New South Wales. This right to go to the parental authority from which the Constitution derives is one that the States are reluctant to forsake. I believe they have a right not to forsake it, and this chamber has no right to attempt to deprive them of this right. 
Where is the element of the area of the common law? The great area of the expression of the common law in Australia and the rights and the protection of the citizens will be found to reside in the States, not in a superior court which is proposed in Canberra. You must agree with me on this,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  You cannot sit in this place as a senator and say that in your Sates you are going to deprive  Mr Reece  and his Government- you may advise me as to what government exists in Tasmania at the moment, but I assume it is  Mr Reece  and his Government- of the right of going to the fount of common law, which they regard as the fount of common law. Yet unilaterally this Bill seeks to take away from the States that powerful right, that residual right that they feel they possess. It is this chamber's duty and responsibility to sustain them in this. 
I apologise for taking up the Senate's time, but I demand the right of the common man sitting in this place to express an opinion against the sophistries of lawyers whom 1 hear speaking from the Government side, and I rest my case on that. 

 Senator BUTTON (Victoria)-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Yes, only in relation to my dress. I was accused early in the debate of being a person who wears 'flip-flop, flip-flop, flip-flop' sandals. That is not true. I assure  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that when I am not in this chamber, where many Australians might wear 'flip-flop' sandals I endeavour to go with bare feet. I want what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said corrected and not to remain in the Hansard uncorrected as it would be if I had not made this explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- If you want to do that you must seek leave. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) I wish to thank all honourable senators who have granted me leave. I had no intention to convey to  Senator Button  that he was a man who went along 'flip-flop, flip-flop' in his sandals. What I clearly said- I am sure that the Hansard proofs tomorrow will demonstrate this- is that he had the intellectual looseness of a man who goes around ' flip-flop, flip-flop ' in sandals. 
I rise to support the Superior Court of Australia Bill and I am more fortified in so doing as a result of having listened to the clouds of monumental irrelevancies which have been spread across this chamber during the course of the debate by Opposition senators. I take particular care to single out that learned gentleman  Senator Wright  for his contribution to this debate. I remind the Senate that we are debating the Superior Court of Australia Bill and that in essence the proposal is to establish a new Federal court exercising Federal jurisdiction. It is envisaged that such a court would streamline the administration of justice and establish a coherent national judicial system. Clause 13, to which  Senator Wright  referred, deals with the divisions of the court and they are interesting because they indicate something of the area of the proposed court's activities. They include the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Division, the Commercial Division, the Family Division, the General Division and the Industrial Division. 
-I omitted the Administrative Division, as  Senator Wright  pointed out, because it does not seem to be of comparatively as much significance as the other divisions at this point of time. Clauses 19, 20 and 2 1 deal with the jurisdiction of the Court. An examination of those clauses reveals that in clause 19 there is set out the manner in which the Court should have original jurisdiction. They are referred to in clause 19(1). They are matters which arise under any treaty, which involve diplomatic representatives, matters in which a person is suing or being sued on behalf of the Commonwealth, matters which are between residents of different States and so on. Later the Bill gives the court the power to deal with questions such as admiralty and marine jurisdiction. Clause 20 deals with matrimonial causes jurisdiction which has been the subject of debate in this chamber in connection with the Family Law Bill. Clause 2 1 deals with the appellate jurisdiction of the court. Basically those clauses set out what the proposed legislation is about. 
It is put that the Bill should be seen in the light of the growing complexity of our society and of the changing nature of the role of the courts. It must also be seen in the light of the growing significance of Commonwealth legislation and constitutional power whether apparent under Liberal or Labor governments. The fact is that that is an inevitable process as Australia develops as a nation. If one looks at the present outline of the structure of the judiciary in Australia one sees that that structure, as it was originally envisaged and laid down, has developed in some quite extraordinary ways. At the top of the hierarchy is the High Court exercising its original jurisdiction and appellate jurisdiction from State and Commonwealth courts. Under that court in the hierarchy there are the State supreme courts which exercise jurisdiction, which is derived from State Acts, and under the common law in matters concerning residents of those States. There is an appellate jurisdiction from inferior courts of each State to the supreme court of that State. 
In addition to that the supreme courts of the States exercise Federal jurisdiction in a variety of matters in respect of which jurisdiction is conferred by this Parliament. Of course, under the State supreme court structure there are the county or district courts, all of which may have Federal jurisdiction conferred on them. Likewise magistrates courts may have Federal jurisdiction conferred on them. In essence that is perhaps quite a simple judicial structure. But it has been complicated over many years by the growth alongside that structure of the Federal judicial system. For example, we have the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Court and the Commonwealth Industrial Court. I shall take the latter court, the Commonwealth Industrial Court, as an example of the rather extraordinary way in which Federal jurisdiction has grown. 
The Commonwealth Industrial Court was established in 1956 following the Boilermakers case. It was effectively established because of the need, following that case, to define the exercise of judicial power from the exercise of arbitral power. That court was established, as its name still suggests, as an industrial court of the Commonwealth of Australia, designed to determine the rights and obligations of organisations and individuals involved in industrial matters and industrial disputations. In 1975 as a result of the increasing complexity of our society and the growth of Commonwealth involvement and Commonwealth legislation we find it exercising jurisdiction as a court under a number of Acts of the Commonwealth including the Navigation Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act, the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act, the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and the Stevedoring Industry Act. Those jurisdictions have been artifically grafted on to the original jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. This has completely changed the nature of that Court from one of industrial expertise to one which now is charged with functions under various Commonwealth statutes and commissions in terms of boards of inquiry, royal commissions and so on which have totally changed the scene. In spite of that the court is still referred to as the Commonwealth Industrial Court. One assumes that it has a primary function in this area. 
This indicates a growing complexity in the Australian judicial system which has undoubtedly confused  Senator Wright  and, one assumes, must accordingly undoubtedly confuse many people and many potential litigants in the community. I am surprised when  Senator Wright  in this chamber quotes  Sir Owen  Dixon in his criticism of the growth of Federal jurisdiction. The growth of Federal jurisdiction is something with which we have had to live under governments of both political persuasions for a very long time.  Senator Wright's  views on this subject remind me very much of the exchange between Glendower and Hotspur in Henry IV, Part 1. Glendower said: 'I can call spirits from the vasty deep'. Hotspur said: 'Why, so can I; or so can any man: But will they come, when you do call for them?' Of course,  Senator Wright  can summon authorities from the shady past but the question is: Are they relevant in 1975? That is the key point in this debate. Are the authorities of 20 and 30 years ago relevant to the question of the establishment of a superior court of Australia in 1975?  Senator Wright  knows they are not. I appreciate  Senator Wright's  chronic addiction to a constitutional view which springs from horse and buggy days. After all, he himself springs from horse and buggy days. I have some sympathy for those times. For example, when I am caught in a traffic jam I, too, have a romantic attachment to the horse and buggy days. But when we are considering the judicial structure of the Commonwealth of Australia are these considerations which  Senator Wright  raises relevant? The simple point is that there is a need in 1975, capable or not as we may be of recognising that need, for a philosophical recognition of the need for a national judicial system. I believe  Senator Wright  to be incapable of recognising that now although apparently he was as a younger man when the Liberal Party was in office. 
I refer briefly to the history of this matter. It has been around for a number of years- to be precise, since 1962. The question of whether there should be a superior court of Australia has been debated by academic lawyers, judges and politicians. Conceptually, it is a Liberal Party notion which was scrapped in 1972. I thought that  Senator Wright  said with admirable eloquence that the Government had now picked up the Liberal Party wastepaper basket and scavenged out the Superior Court Bill. I think I can say that we as a government are not too proud to take something out of a Liberal Party wastepaper basket where that Party has consigned it because of its own vacillation and confusion. As a government we are not too proud to take something out of that wastepaper basket if we think it meets the needs of the Australian people and nation in 1 975. That is what we have done. 
I am surprised at  Senator Wright's  moral indignation on the matter because at the worst we can be accused of nothing more than larceny by finding whereas  Senator Wright  belongs to a party which at the May 1974 election could be accused quite openly larceny by stealing Government policy. The honourable senator knows that very well. As a practitioner in the Hobart magistrates court the honourable senator knows very well that there is a big moral difference between larceny by finding and larceny by stealing. I am surprised at his attitude today in this matter. I was referring to the history of this matter and I said that it was a Liberal Party development. I quote now from a speech made on 18 May 1967 by the then Attorney-General,  Mr Nigel  Bowen, in relation to this legislation. He said: 
The growth in Federal litigation has been such as to impose an increasing burden on the High Court. The result of that growth has been that, unless the number of High Court justices is increased, there is a serious risk that the volume of work in the original jurisdiction of the High Court will inhibit the Court's capacity to fulfil its principal role as an arbiter of constitutional questions and as the nation's ultimate appellate court. Because of the provisions of the Constitution requiring all judges to have, in effect, life tenure, the Commonwealth, unlike the States, cannot relieve its justices on a temporary basis by the appointment of acting justices to deal with arrears or accumulations of business as they occur from time to time. At the same time the complexity of government has grown very considerably and the activities of the Commonwealth Government and of its agencies have correspondingly become very much greater and much more intricate than they were at the inception of the Commonwealth. . . . 
I interpolate there: That was said in 1967, and what was true in 1967 is of course much more true today. He went on: 
Yet, there has been no corresponding growth in the judicial organs of the Commonwealth to keep pace with these developments. Apart from the creation of two Federal courts of limited specialised jurisdiction, namely the Commonwealth Industrial Court and the Federal Bankruptcy Court, the High Court in its original jurisdiction and the various State courts exercising Federal jurisdiction have dealt with all matters arising under the Constitution and Federal statutes. 
As these trends continue, there will be an increasing amount of Federal litigation which will overtax the existing arrangements. . . . 
I pointed out that that was said in 1967. What was true in 1967 is even truer today because the trends which the then Attorney-General referred to are still continuing and growing in pace, and the failure to appreciate these trends-as the Liberal Party has failed to appreciate so many other trends in our society- led to the abandonment of this project for a Superior Court Bill in 1972. That abandonment was indicated by  Senator Greenwood  in this chamber in a speech given on 27 October 1 972. He said this: 
The Government - 
That is the Liberal Government-  has taken another look at the whole matter. With the full support of the Chief Justice, the Government has decided that it should follow the alternative course, which is available under the Constitution, of investing State Supreme Courts and the Supreme Courts of the mainland Territories with original jurisdiction in certain additional federal matters in respect of which the High Court now exercises original jurisdiction. The Government, on reflection, sees this alternative course as having a number of important advantages. It will provide a more integrated system of courts . . . 
Then he pointed out that it would give the judges of those courts opportunities for experience in new and important jurisdictions, as if that were a consideration of fundamental importance to a judicial system. He went on to state: 
The Government sees its present proposals as an exercise in co-operative federalism that will benefit both the States and the Commonwealth. 
With those words  Senator Greenwood  ushered in the death knell of the Superior Court of Australia as a Liberal Party concept after 10 years of debate and vacillation and indecision about whether to go on with that project or not. Today in this chamber we find honourable senators on the Opposition side of the House talking as if that decade had been erased from history, as if the debate had never gone on in the Liberal Party, as if it were never a matter which had received their serious consideration and attention, but we know that not to be so. 
I refer to the need for this Parliament to match the needs of contemporary society with an appropriate judicial system. I have no doubt at all that the proposal for a Superior Court has some attendant disadvantages. Every proposal which comes before this Parliament in one form or' another has disadvantages as well as advantages, and the question really is whether the advantages outweigh the disadvantages or not. Certainly there are disadvantages, but they are not iniquities of a great kind; otherwise they would not have existed like a viper in the bosom of the Liberal Party for a whole decade, if we are to believe what has been said on the other side. But the growth of the court system must be seen as an evolutionary process. The problems which may arise, the pettifogging problems which have been referred to in debate in this chamber, are not insurmountable and can be ironed out if there is goodwill in the national Parliament to do so. There is a problem, which has been magnified out of all proportion, of defining or refining the jurisdiction of the court, but it is not in effect a contentious political issue to do that. It is a question which involves a matter of sound administration and sound government. 
The question really remains, as I said, whether the basic proposition of a Superior Court is a sound one or not. Might I point to some of the positive advantages of the establishment of the Superior Court of Australia. The first positive advantage I will point to is that it avoids a multiplicity of courts exercising federal jurisdiction and the continual process which has been going on of rather phoney grafts of additional jurisdiction onto existing tribunals such as the Commonwealth Industrial Court. That is an important consideration which cannot be over-emphasised. The second consideration is that the establishment of the Superior Court would relieve the High Court of Australia of the more burdensome aspects of some of its original jurisdiction in matters that can be dealt with appropriately by a court of the kind envisaged. That would have the consequence, it is put, of speeding up the work of the High Court and enabling it to concentrate on its essential function in a growing and increasingly complex society as custodian of the Constitution and as the highest appellate court in the land. Let there be no mistake about it. Insofar as litigants before the High Court of Australia are concerned, it is not a speedy court in dealing with litigation. It is not a speedy court in giving judgments after matters have been argued before it, and there can be great inconvenience caused to litigants and great costs incurred as a result of the delays which are apparent in the High Court at the moment. 
Another positive advantage is that the Superior Court of Australia would relieve the State Supreme Courts of some of the burdensome jurisdiction in relation to Commonwealth matters which are set out in clause 36 (5) of the Bill. That sub-clause sets out a number of matters of federal jurisdiction in which the specific statutes are referred to. I notice that it includes, among others, the Marriage Act. I remind honourable senators of the debate we have already had in this chamber in connection with the Family Law Bill where the view was expressed by many honourable senators that it was desirable that the full power of the Commonwealth in relation to matrimonial causes and marriages should be exercised by the same court and that the full jurisdiction of that court should relate to those matters. Not only would the removal of these matters from State Supreme Courts place the matters in their proper jurisdiction basket in a federal jurisdiction but also it would enable State Supreme Courts to concentrate on areas of their exclusive jurisdiction where the most chronic delays now occur in the judicial system in Australia, the most chronic delays as they affect individual litigants. If I might refer to my own State of Victoria as an example, whatever the Hamer-makes-it-happen Government may have done in Victoria- and I cannot think of a single thing at the moment- it certainly has not speeded up the process of justice in that State. After some 1 9 years of Liberal Government in Victoria the same complaints are still being made about delays in the Supreme Court of Victoria, about delays in getting on with damages litigation, about delays in handling the matrimonial causes jurisdiction, delays which cause hardship and inconvenience to thousands of litigants in that State. That pattern is repeated perhaps everywhere in Australia except in  Senator Wright's  own little bailiwick to the south. I say to  Senator Wright,  who is trying to interject, that it is possibly the only exception insofar as delays of that kind are concerned. 
-I am delighted to hear that - 
-I am delighted to hear that it is not an exception and that the delays are the same as in other States, because that is what I apprehended  Senator Wright  to be saying. 
I am not happy about it. Before those interjections about Tasmania came my way, I was making the point that the establishment of the Superior Court would enable the State Supreme Courts to get on with the areas of their exclusive jursidiction and catch up on some of the chronic delays which are existing in those areas which result in the denial of justice to so many citizens and litigants. 
Finally, as a positive advantage of the proposed Superior Court, may I point to the fact that the court will have original jurisdiction in a very significant and important area of growing Commonwealth legislation. I point for example to the trade practices area, the area of commercial law involving large corporations, and the development of environmental law in this country, all of which are appropriate matters whether the neanderthals on the other side of the chamber like it or not for a national judicial system and not for a judicial system of the superannuated colonies called States in this debate. 
-No. My emotional emphasis was on my view of you,  Senator Baume,  not on my view of the States. I wish now to deal with some criticisms which have been made of the legislation. It has been said that the matters which are proposed to be dealt with by the Superior Court of Australia might appropriately be dealt with continually by investing State courts with Federal jurisdiction. I have already dealt with that question in part by pointing to the inadequacies of the State Supreme Courts in this regard. But apart from that, that claim just is not so. The family law area is an excellent example of the failure of Supreme Courts to deal with matters arising from Federal jurisdiction. There are other similar matters in which there is a backlog of litigation in State courts. 
Another criticism which is made is that the proposed Superior Court could not dispose of related issues between litigants and third parties in matters in the same proceedings. I follow the suggestion which is made that we lay ourselves open to an area of potential confusion in that regard. But I put it to the Senate that that is not an argument against the establishment of the Superior Court of Australia. It is an argument for a conscientious effort to define the areas of the exclusive jurisdiction of the Superior Court. It is an area not only for a conscientious effort on the part of this Parliament but also is appropriate for a judicial exploration as the growth and development of Commonwealth legislation continues. 
Further, it is suggested that the court should not be established because it would give rise to confusion and the need for judicial decisions whether a matter involved Federal jurisdiction. Once again that is really an argument relating to the extent to which the Superior Court of Australia Bill should provide for appeals from State courts. The answer to this argument lies in clauses 36 and 37 of the Bill which gives the Superior Court exclusive jurisdiction to hear appeals only in matters where there can be little doubt that the Superior Court would be exercising Federal jurisdiction. If there are any remaining doubts they can be resolved, as I have said before, by appropriate legislation of this Parliament or by the process of judicial exploration in the course of the growth and development of the court. There are other criticisms which are made and which border on the pettifogging compared with the positive advantages of the establishment of this court. 
I regard this in a sense as being an historic debate. It is totally unimportant in some ways and totally uninteresting at this time to the average Australian citizen. But it is historic and important because I believe that we have now reached a stage in the trend of development to which  Mr Nigel  Bowen when he was the Attorney-General referred, that is, that the time has come for the establishment of a superior court of this kind. I believe that, even in 1900, it was envisaged by the founding fathers of the Constitution that there would be the growth of a Federal or national judicial system to deal with matters arising under Commonwealth power. I believe that in 1975 the time has now come. For that reason I regard it, as I have said, as an historic debate in which the views of the Government in years to come, though they may be defeated by Opposition numbers, will be regarded as the appropriate and mature view to have taken of this question of judicial development in 1975. 1 commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I want to speak very briefly to this Bill. I have just received some advice from  Senator Baume  before I commenced my remarks which perhaps confused me a little. However, I think that I can recall the essential details of the matter. I found it surprising this morning that  Senator Guilfoyle  is still reading from the early collected works of Gough Whitlam on the subject of health services in Australia when since that time there have been a number of debates and a number of Bills before the Senate, and rejected by it, relating to the proposed National Health Act. If one reads the legislation one can surely spell out from that document what the Government's intentions are. The National Health Bill which is before the Senate is designed to facilitate the introduction of the Medibank scheme. 
I do not think I need go into the details of the Medibank scheme at the beginning of my comments because I think honourable senators and most members of the public who take an intelligent interest in this matter are fully aware of the details. But even today this legislation is opposed by the Opposition, making it, if I may so so, the Blue Hills of legislative obstruction in this chamber and placing it above all other instances of obstruction which have occurred. The strange thing about this piece of obstruction is that the Medibank scheme can go ahead even if this legislation is defeated, except in one respect. If this legislation is not passed patients in private nursing homes will not be eligible for government subsidy. I think the people of Australia ought to know that and the Senate ought to know that. Of course, we on the Government side will not hesitate to tell that to the people of Australia on the hustings or wherever else it may be necessary to do so. 
As a member of a House of review- and as I believe becomes a member of a House of a House of review- I have given this legislation what I hope is mature consideration over some period of time. When I say 'some period of time' I ask the Senate to believe that it is 6 years, because there has now been 6 years of public debate on this question, it is 6 years since the Liberal Government of the time appointed the Nimmo Committee to inquire into health services in Australia and in 6 years nothing has been done in relation to the findings of that Committee, except by this Government in the Medibank scheme. What were the findings of the Nimmo Committee? They can be summarised essentially as follows: It found that the existing scheme of health insurance in Australia was complex and incomprehensible to many sections of the community. It found that the benefits were inadequate, the contributions were too high and the scheme imposed serious and widespread hardship on sections of the community. It found that the voluntary health funds had a high percentage of operating expenses and that their reserves at that time were too high. With the possible exception of the last finding, the findings of the Nimmo Committee 6 years ago are as true today as they were then, in spite of 3 years of intervening Liberal government in which nothing was done to rectify the position and in spite of subsequent years of opposition by the Liberal Party in this chamber to the present Government's efforts to cope with the findings of that Committee. 
One would be pardoned for drawing the conclusion that the health care standards of this community are not a matter of primary concern to the Liberal Party. I refer particularly to the health care of migrants in this community who constitute 60 per cent of the admitted possibly one million people in Australia who are not covered by voluntary schemes. Now, in February 1975, the Opposition still obstructs and frustrates this legislation and points with some glee, one suspects, to administrative difficulties into which Medibank might run after 1 July. In my view it is not the attitude of a responsible political party to say: 'You may run into this difficulty and that difficulty after we have been pointing this out to you for years. We have obstructed every piece of legislation which you have brought forward on the matter. There still may be difficulties and we will make political capital out of them if they occur'. That is what it amounts to. That opposition has been maintained through 2 national elections in which, if the electors of Australia were confused about some issues, they knew for sure that if this Labor Government was returned to office it would introduce its national health insurance scheme. That was absolutely clear to every elector in Australia who voted. While the Opposition now clutches desperately at the results of some opinion poll in answer to a loaded question, as reported in the 'Bulletin', the fact remains that that has happened in 2 general elections and in the long debate that has gone on for 6 years. 
Even now the Opposition offers no real alternative. Nothing much is said about the proposals which were nervously unwrapped prior to the May 1974 election and afterwards put back on the shelf like an unwanted wedding present. Nothing is said about those matters now because that was just a try-on for the purpose of the May election. Basically we have in the Senate today and we have had in the House of Representatives recently the same old, tired criticisms such as that this is a compulsory scheme, as if in a society which provides for compulsion in all sorts of matters involving the welfare of the people a compulsory health scheme above all is in some way undesirable. We still hear talk about the virtues of the private health funds. We are still told that under the scheme there will be no choice of doctor. That is rubbish. It is untrue, and every member of the Opposition knows that. We are still told about the doctor-patient relationship and the importance of that relationship. It may be very well for members of Parliament on significant salaries and others in the community who are able to afford all the facilities offered by private doctors to talk about the doctor-patient relationship. I say quite frankly to the Senate that if we asked an average Australian in a pub how his doctor-patient relationship was going he would think we were about to tell him a dirty story and he would prick up his ears. The expression 'doctor-patient relationship'- and everybody knows it- is about as meaningful to the average Australian as, say, the relationship between a motorist and a petrol pump attendant. Everybody in Australia who thinks seriously about this knows that to be true. 
-I am glad that the honourable senator found it so. The other criticism which is still made relates to the cost of the scheme. There are some gleeful pronouncements from the Opposition that the cost of health care is increasing very rapidly in Australia, as if that was some new discovery of unique importance. Everybody knows that the cost of health care is increasing very rapidly in every country with sophistication and economic development equal to that of Australia. 
Those are the sorts of criticisms which are being made still in the course of this debate. We find with interest this morning in the 'Financial Review' the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in the other place, the man for whom  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would no doubt don flip-flop asbestos sandals and walk over hot coals, stated- still peddling the same old stuff- in an answer to a question in the 'Financial Review': 
We would, therefore, establish the manner by which we would restore the fundamentals. For example, freedom of choice of doctor - 
He goes on with various other things which he regards as the fundamentals. In relation to the consumer he says: 
He will pay more for health cover even though the sum will not be labelled ' health insurance '. 
Every honourable senator in this chamber knows that it will not be labelled health insurance because the Opposition voted against the Health Insurance Levy Bill when it was before the House. 
-No, they are highly selected quotations. I would not get upset about it. I was going to come to that in a moment. Some play has been made on the use of the word ' free '. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place, as I am prepared to inform the Senate, went on to say:   . . hospital and tight supervision of the expenditure of funds so that the alleged ' free scheme  doesn't  send the community bankrupt. 
I want to deal with the question of the alleged free scheme as the Leader of the Opposition calls it and particularly in relation to the advertisements which appeared in recent weeks dealing with Medibank. I refer members of the Senate to the advertisements because they have been the subject of discussion. It is quite true that the third sentence of the advertisement states: 
Medibank will provide free medical insurance cover for every man, woman and child in Australia. 
For those who read past the third sentence, it then goes on to say: 
That's because Medibank, like other social welfare service, will be financed by money from tax revenue. 
Of course, in our society we do, admittedly, use the word 'free' with some abandon. I have no doubt that  Senator Baume,  as a medical practitioner, has told hundreds of his patients over the years that a prescription is on the free list but every patient in Australia, if he thinks about it, knows that in fact he is paying for it in one way or another and that there is no such thing as a free prescription list, if we want to be purists about the use of the language. When we talk about free milk or free social services of one kind or another, we all know that in fact those things are not free in terms of the taxpayers ' liability to support them, but it is an insult to the intelligence of the average Australian for the Senate to be read little lectures on the meaning of the word free' and for it to be suggested that the advertisements relating to Medibank are accordingly misleading. 
Insofar as the health insurance scheme will be free, in the sense in which that word is used in the advertisement, it is the fault of the Liberal Party Opposition in this chamber. Once again if honourable senators opposite want to be reminded of that in this chamber or on the hustings, they will be, because that was the fact of the matter when they blocked the Health Insurance Levy Bill earlier this year. We as a Party and a Government had set forth from the beginning the concept of a contributory scheme based on a 1.35 per cent levy on taxable income. Insofar as this scheme now becomes free- I use the word free' in quotation marks- it is because of the activities of the Opposition in this chamber. 
I am personally disappointed that the Opposition, having been involved in this series of debates over many years, has put forward no alternative proposition which has attracted the attention or imagination of any of the Australian people. Instead it puts the same arguments which were used at the beginning, in 2 elections and in various debates in this chamber. It really is a sad and shabby story that even at the end of that series of arguments it has sought to make capital out of the use of the word 'free' in an advertisement, having regard to the circumstances which I have described. 
What we have in the Health Insurance Bill before the House is simply a proposal to facilitate the introduction of Medibank and to provide in clause 12 a system of Commonwealth benefits for non-pensioner patients in nursing homes. 
-I have not looked at clause 8 for the moment, but perhaps I can come to that later or  Senator Baume  can speak about it. Of course this matter is no longer one in which we need to be confused about the details over this long debate and long period of obstruction. The sad thing about it is that the Opposition has shown itself to be not only leaderless on this issue- I refer to the interview in the 'Australian Financial Review' this morning- but also without policy or consistent ideology. It has lapsed into a policy of peddling the distortions of the ideological cave-dwellers in this community such as the General Practitioners Society instead of trying, as a responsible Opposition might have done, to examine the challenge which the Nimmo report gave the Liberal Government 6 years ago, and work out some viable alternative. But it is propping up the health funds as if there were some particular sanctity about them, still talking about doctor-patient relationships and no freedom of choice of doctor, and opposing this 
Bill again with the prospect of the Medibank scheme being introduced on 1 July. 
I commend the Bill to the Senate. I understand what its fate will be. We on this side of the House will ensure that the people of Australia will know why this Bill was rejected and explain to them the course which has been followed by the Opposition throughout this long debate. 
-Senator Rae looks forward to being in government. May I congratulate him on his sense of vision in that regard which has been lacking in the approach of the Liberal Party in the past towards the Australian Council for the Arts. This Bill has the purpose of establishing a statutory corporation known as the Australia Council designed to promote and foster the arts in Australia. The Government is chastised a little for the delays in the presentation of this Bill to the Senate, but 1 would remind  Senator Rae  that it was first introduced into the House of Representatives in March 1974. As a result of something which took place in the Senate chamber the process of government stopped for 3 months and the Bill was not then proceeded with. It was again introduced in the House of Representatives in July 1974 but as a result of the prior importance of the Budget it was not proceeded with again until this year. 
The Bill provides for the establishment of a council of 18 to 24 members to carry out the general function of planning and supervising the development of the arts in Australia and for the establishment of various boards to which the powers of the Council may be delegated. It in fact gives statutory authority to the Australian Council for the Arts, which has been operating since February 1973, together with 7 boards devoted to particular art forms, lt fulfils an election promise of the Prime Minster  (Mr Whitlam ) and the Government made in November 1972. It is perhaps instructive to refer to the establishment of the Australian Council for the Arts and its functions described in the first report which was tabled in Parliament in November 1974. In reporting to the Parliament the Chairman made this comment about the function of the Australia Council. The report is headed: 1973- A Change of Direction.  lt states: 
The Policy Speech delivered by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlarn,  in November 1972 announced policies for the arts. It set out four broad objectives, namely to encourage excellence in the arts, to foster a wider spread of interest and participation, to help develop a national identity through artistic expression and to project Australia's image in other countries by means of the arts. The speech also proposed a statutory Council devolving wide responsibilities on Boards for various art forms. 
When the Government was elected early moves were made to give effect to these proposals. In January 1973 the Prime Minister invited twenty-four people to form a new Council with a charter to ensure a continuity of support to existing recipients so that past government commitments might be honoured, to prepare a budget for the increased help which the Government had undertaken to provide and to prepare detailed plans for a statutory authority broadly based on the proposals outlined in the Policy Speech. The membership of seven specialist constituent Boards was announced a few weeks later. Appointments allowed for an element of continuity from the past. Approximately one third of the people appointed had been members of bodies advising the previous Government. All appointments were for one or two years. The intention was to keep things functioning while plans were developed for more lasting arrangements. 
The membership of the Council included four categories of people. The majority were prominent artists and persons closely involved in the arts including the Chairmen of the various Boards. They were supported by others with legal, financial and other administrative skills, with however, a known interest in the arts, and by several senior officials of Government departments and agencies whose work interlocked with that of the Council.  1 refer to that passage of the report of the Council because it suggests some of the difficulties with which the Australian Council for the Arts was faced at the time it was first established in 1973 and some of the objectives which the Council decided to pursue. The last few years in Australia have seen a tremendous growth and development of appreciation of the arts and an increasing cultural maturity and sense of Australian identity. To demonstrate this one has to go back only to the mid-1960s and compare the situation then with today. It constituted something of a period of cultural dark ages in the history of this country. In the mid- 1 960s Australia had no film industry. There was a minimum of patronage for music and creative writing. We had a paucity of significant playwrights. Although we had some outstanding painters they, comparatively speaking, enjoyed neither profit nor honour in their own country. Instead they enjoyed the recognition of London and New York. This was a period in which many Australian artists and writers lived in an alienated community principally in London. In Australia the powerful voices of people such as Robin Boyd, Patrick White and Donald Home seemed to be crying in the wilderness with regard to the hope they held out for the development of arts and cultural activity generally in Australia. 
Of course much of this has changed as a result of initiatives taken by various people including, for example, the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  who had the political vision to see the importance of establishing a national film and television school in Australia. This change is also partly due to the vision of the present Prime Minister who saw a need for co-ordinating Government patronage for the arts which is an accepted objective of both political parties for the Australia Council. In the area of films, which is not entirely dependent on the activities of the Australia Council, Australia has already significantly changed its reputation. I refer the Senate to an article which appeared in the January 1975 issue of the London 'Video and Film Communication Magazine'. Under the heading of: Australia, Government Helps the Media', it states: 
Things are stirring in the outback. Down under in Australia they have scheduled for production this year some 18 feature films . . . 
It goes on to refer to the Australian Film and Television School and to the quality of production of Australian films. It refers to a high proportion of Film Australia output being for educational use and to the recent statistic identifying 18 new educational films in production at the one moment of time. It goes on to state that this sort of thing is happening in very few countries and Australia was singled out as a place of particular significance in this regard. This just would not have happened even three or four years ago. Only quite recently the Australian Opera in Sydney in its production of 'Aida ' had a world-renowned success which would have seemed unbelievable a few years ago. In the area of the National Gallery I think we. are internationally and locally identified as a country which has adopted a mature and significant purchasing policy under the direction of an imaginative director. 

 - Senator Devitt draws my attention to the Australian Ballet. I did not specifically single out the Ballet because it has been producing programs of quality for some years. 
-Yes, but that is not a new and significant development in the same way as are these other things. The other area to which I refer relates to the development and growth of sponsorship of the arts by various State governments. That is a similarly significant development which 1 believe flows from the initiative of the Federal Government. The sorts of changes which have taken place are well illustrated by a comment which appeared in 'Newsweek' of 24 February this year. When referring to the possibility of an election in Australia the article stated: 
The Whitlam government has also established itself as the country's main patron of the arts. The Australian Council for the Arts will distribute about $30m this year in grants to Australian writers, musicians, painters and playwrights- and hundreds who had fled to the brighter lights of London and New York are returning home to take advantage of these subsidies. The government is also funding a variety of projects designed to heighten Australia's sense of national identity. 
I refer to that passage only because it indicates a quite converse position to the sorts of comments one received about the arts in Australia some 5 years or so ago. These changes are of significance and importance for Australians today and, more importantly, for future generations of Australians. Perhaps nothing is more significant than the passing of this legislation by this Parliament. The changes made in 1973 and 1974 were accompanied by a barrage of controversy and criticism about the functions, activities and personnel of the Australian Council for the Arts. These criticisms, like the product of that other source of Australian cultural activity the Carlton and United Brewery, can be divided into 2 categories- mild and bitter. They can be divided also into categories of legitimate criticism and illegitimate criticism. I think that some of these criticisms were well enumerated in an article by  Dr Stephen  Murray-Smith in an editorial of Overland' last year. As a general observation about the activities of the Council for the Arts he made these comments: 
Let it be said at once that the Whitlam regime has activated the whole field. A Council for the Arts has been established, some energy and initiative shown in bringing new names and talents forward in the Council and its subordinate boards, and the Government has vastly increased public spending in the arts field right across the board. Australian writers, painters, and what-have-you should be chartering coaches to Canberra to strew flowers in  Mr Whitlam  's path. But, instead, and in the literary area in particular, clouds are gathering. 
The clouds which, according to  Dr MurraySmith,  were gathering in 1973, in fact grew a bit darker as the debate about the role of the Council for the Arts went on. Indeed, in 1974 there was a very high degree of criticism and comment, but I think it is fair to say- and I think  Senator Rae  and others would agree with methat many of those dark clouds are now dispersing. There is a general recognition that in the administration of the arts there is such a sensitive area involved that in its attempts to get off the ground the Australia Council should be given that minimum requirement of Australian culture, namely, a fair go. I think that, feeling has been expressed much more frequently recently by various spokesmen on this subject. I believe that the situation was very well put in the House of Representatives debate by  Mr Fisher,  the Country Party member for Mallee, when he said this: 
The Australian Council for the Arts must be given an opportunity to do those things set out in this Bill. Its validity, of course, will be able to be judged during its second term when such judgments can be based on performance and good faith. The administration can then be appraised objectively. 
I think that is a very reasonable approach and a very proper approach to adopt towards the role of the Australia Council. As one who has publicly criticised aspects of this Bill may I urge all persons involved in the arts and in political debate about the arts to approach this legislation in that spirit. There will always be in this area of the arts considerable criticism, comment and vigorous discussion, and anyone with the well-being of the arts in Australia at heart would wish that to be so. 
We are legislating with this Bill for one of the most articulate and individualistic sections of the Australian community. It is important, I believe, that we as members of the Parliament recognise that the Australia Council will be reporting yearly to the Parliament and will be subject to legislative oversight. Those criticisms of people involved in the arts will always be before us and I hope that there will always be differences of opinion. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in the House of Representatives, in making the same sort of point, referred to artists and politicians as prima donnas all. It is perhaps one of his less unfortunate analogies, although it may not be regarded as entirely flattering to artists. But the point he was trying to make was that it is an area of individualistic activity and one in which there is bound to be vigorous comment and dissension. 
From what  Senator Rae  has said and from comments made elsewhere- in the House of Representatives and so on- there has been a basically bipartisan approach to the development of the Arts Council, and I think there is some degree of understanding that it must be regarded as an evolutionary process, that it should be above party politics as far as possible and according to certain agreed objectives. I think the idea of the statutory corporation base is fully accepted in all sections of the community. But in the light of that area of agreement and understanding I want to look very briefly at some of the criticisms which have been made, particularly during the year 1974 and indeed in the debate in the House of Representatives. The first and most obvious criticism, which has been reiterated here today by  Senator Rae,  is the question of the relationship between the boards and the Council for the Arts. Clause 7 provides that the Council may delegate its powers and functions and specific tasks and so on to the respective boards. For my own part, I should have preferred the emphasis to be the other way, namely, that the boards should be given some degree of autonomy by the statute, the right to veto being clearly established in the Council in relation to any initiative of a particular board. However, I do not think that this is a criticism of great validity at this stage. I think it is important to note that the boards arc represented on the Council by the  chairman  of each board and that they are in fact operating at this time with a considerable degree of autonomy in their respective areas. I further take the view that it must be accepted as a basic principle that the boards must be subject to the control and direction of the Council in some way, otherwise there can be no co-ordination in the endeavours of the various boards and they might indeed be working out of harmony with each other in terms of the development of a general artistic policy. 
Yes, I appreciate that the Council has a co-ordinating role, but I still think it desirable that the Council should be structured as it is now. I have given a lot of thought to this question and 1 am not satisfied that the argument for greater autonomy of the boards is made out at this stage, although I agree that it is a matter that may well need review in further debate in the years to come. 
The second main criticism which has been made, and made quite vigorously, is that relating to the personnel appointed to the Council and the boards. Some of this criticism I believe may have been justified, but of course it is an issue on which there can never be agreement. If there were agreement about who should be appointed to the Council for the Arts or the various boards I think it would be a very sad day for the cultural life of Australia. On the whole, there has been a significant array of expertise and talent appointed to the boards and I believe that adequate provision is made in the Bill for rotation of that personnel. It is nice to think that there could be some elected members of the boards and of the Council and I, with others, have given a lot of thought to this particular problem. But the real difficulty which arises in electing personnel to the boards or the Council itself would be that of defining the electorate, of defining who would vote for representatives on the boards and the Council. What would one have to do to qualify to be an elector? Would one have to be a practising artist? Would one have to be interested in the arts? What would one have to show? I think that so long as the Government acceptedly remains the patron of the arts it must play a significant role in appointments to these boards, and it is probably not possible to devise a system of election of some members of the boards. 
-I will come to that in a minute. One would hope that in the future, particularly in making appointments to the various boards, the Government would give consideration to the appointment of a greater number of students. I refer, for example, to students of the film, to students involved in the visual arts. 1 am not suggesting that there should be a significant proportion of students on any of these boards, but I think it would be desirable if a number of students were appointed from time to time in these areas, because it is in these student areas that one gets perhaps the most innovative thought in relation to developing arts such as the visual arts and films. 
There has also been criticism of the Executive Director of the Arts Council, and I want to say only this about that particular criticism. It has gone on for a very long time and on every occasion on which she has been exposed to public debate and criticism  Dr Battersby  has acquitted herself very well. I refer particularly to her performance as a witness before an Estimates Committee of this Senate. I refer likewise to her contribution to the Adelaide Seminar on Theatre Design in December last year, where she spoke, and was described by the 'National Times' as this much maligned executive officer of the Australian Council for the Arts'. All I would say about the role of the executive officers of the Australia Council, as well as the personnel of the boards, is that they should be given a fair go in this difficult period of developing an arts policy in Australia. 
There has been some criticism of clause 9 (2). Some objection is taken to 'persons associated with the arts' being appointed to the boards. It is felt by many that those words should be amended to 'persons involved in the arts' or some expression of a similar kind.  Senator Rae  touched on this problem and expressed his concern, which I share, that a large number of practising artists should at all times be represented on the boards. However I think it is important to remember that the expression 'associated with the arts' is designed to cater for academics, critics and people of that kind who may be quite strongly involved in the arts and who could be important personnel on boards of this kind but who could not be said to be involved in the arts or caught up in the arts in the much closer way which is sometimes sought by critics of the legislation. We all share a concern that there should be representatives of practising artists and consumers strongly represented on the boards and on the Council. 
References have been made to the importance of community involvement in the arts and I draw attention to the fact that the Council has already established a community arts fund and is moving quite strongly into this very difficult area of community involvement. It is not something which is susceptible to an easy solution but something which involves a number of problems of experimentation, innovation and so on which require some period of adjustment. That area of the activities of the Council is now being investigated thoroughly by the Council itself but we can expect no immediate results. I am asked by  Senator Rae  to comment on the question of direct State representation on the Australia Council. It is suggested that directors of the arts from each State should be voting members of the Council. That suggestion was made by  Mr Garland  in the House of Representatives when speaking on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  This is the most bizarre and Philistine suggestion which I have heard made about the Australia Council because it is ludicrous to think of the Council as being some kind of mini Premiers' Conference in which there would be squabbling over the allocation of funds on a State basis. We are talking about something which involves Australia 's identity; we are talking about something which involves Australia's image overseas, and these criteria are referred to in the legislation. We are talking about a maturity in cultural activity and so on. All these things surely cannot be considered on a State basis. 
-I understand the Opposition's sensitivity on this point but the fact of the matter is that the Council has the function of allocating funds and if there is direct State representation on the Council we will have the situation which has developed in all sorts of areas, and particularly in the Premiers' Conferences, over the allocation of funds. We will have  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  sending his representative down and saying: 'If I do not get so much for the arts we will not export any Queensland culture to Japan'. That is the sort of ludicrous situation we will get into if we have direct State representation on the Council. I say quite strongly that that sort of approach does not commend itself at all and seems to me to be a bizarre and Philistine suggestion. 
On that point I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the functions of the Council include the encouragement and support of the arts by the States, local governing bodies and other persons and organisations, and there is nothing in the practice of the Australian Council for the Arts over the last year or two to suggest that that is not taking place. In fact there has been the highest degree of co-operation, and this suggestion, which is a sort of conditioned reflex of the Opposition to any legislation it considers, of putting representatives of the States on the Council is irrelevant and ludicrous. That is all I wish to say about the specific criticisms which have been made of the Australia Council. 
I regard this as a very important and historic Bill. If I can do so without offending  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack I would say that it represents a great leap forward in Australian national life. The Opposition is to be congratulated on the approach which it has adopted to the Bill. As we lay the foundation for the future development of the arts in Australia, one cannot underestimate the importance that this body might have in our national life. In these uncertain times I think we are all fairly certain of one thing, and that is in the future Australians will have more and more leisure time available to them. It is the hope of all of us that we will be able to use that leisure in a constructive and effective way which will help citizens of Australia fulfil themselves and create a wide range of options in their leisure activity. Perhaps in the future some of the money which we now seem to waste on universities may be more appropriately directed to a body such as the Australia Council because it will give by its activities a wider range of options to a greater number of Australian people. Each year a report will come before the Senate for debate and I hope that we can approach the reports in much the same way as we have approached this matter today, that is, on the basis of mutual good will for the future progress of the arts. The Bill indicates that the winds of change can blow away the most stagnant air and even affect the Opposition. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I rise to speak very briefly in connection with these 2 Bills because, as I have indicated in earlier speeches, it has been a very long debate which has gone on for approximately six or seven years both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. Both these Bills have been described by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  as not being related to Medibank. Certainly the first of these 2 Bills, the Health Insurance Bill (No. 2), is not related to Medibank in any way in that it is designed to cure 2 deficiencies in the long standing health insurance scheme in Australia. In the first place, pregnant women are excluded by the rules of private health funds from benefit if they are not members at the time that their pregnancy is incurred or during their pregnancy. Secondly, the Bill is designed to cover those people who are recipients of unemployment, sickness or special social security benefits who likewise are placed at grave social disadvantage and indeed in a position of some anxiety, one might anticipate, as a result of inability to obtain assistance with medical bills under the present legislation. Both these matters have been adverted to in the past by reports relating to the operation of the health insurance program. I welcome at this stage the Opposition's acceptance of the National Health Bill (No. 2). 
With regard to the National Health Bill (No. 3), at this stage I still fail to understand the Opposition's emotional allegiance to the private health insurance funds. This matter has been debated for many years and the sensitivity which is still displayed over the future of those funds has at last, I must confess, been given a rationale in terms of the fears which some people in the community have about the role of private hospital insurance after Medibank comes into existence. I still say that as a matter of legislative structure and as a matter of fact this Bill has nothing to do with the Medibank scheme. With regard to unsubstantiated fears about private health insurance after Medibank is introduced, it may be said that it has a very tenuous connection in a negative way with the positive aspects of Medibank. 
I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to one or two matters in relation to the private health insurance funds. For a long time a comment has been made in our society, which has never been answered, that many things are wrong with the administration of the private health insurance funds, that their management expenses are too high and that open funds have failed the community and the contributors to those funds by the lack of contributor representation in the management of the funds. It is disappointing that at this stage one still hears nothing from the Opposition about those matters. I say that it is disappointing because if one studies some of the documents which have been published since 1969 by various committees and inquiries relating to health insurance in Australia, one finds that these matters have been causes of concern. If one looks at the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs published in June 1970 one finds a reference on page 46 to the departmental policy in relation to private health insurance funds of trying persuasion and co-operation with these funds rather than the sort of controls which are envisaged in the present Bill. In paragraph 162 the Committee commented on that policy of persuasion in this way: 
The Committee considers that this policy has not been sufficient, and believes that it would be desirable, whenever necessary, to exercise the power of suspension and to withdraw from any suspended organisation the payment of Commonwealth benefits pursuant to section 28 of the National Health Act. 
In the following paragraphs the Committee discussed the sort of powers which there should be over the funds. In paragraph 164 it came back to the question of contributors. The report stated: 
Contributors to funds are not in the same basic situation as shareholders in a normal company, and the Committee was disturbed to learn how little, if any, contributor participation or representation exists in relation to funds. It is logical, therefore, that the Commonwealth Government, which in 1968-69 outlayed $13$. 6m of taxpayers' money as medical and hospital insurance benefits . . . should act in a supervisory way, to ensure that contributors' interests are protected. 
The same matter was taken up in the Nimmo Report in its recommendations on page 13 of that report. At a later stage it was further dealt with in the Green Paper on health insurance in Australia- the report of the planning committee. Still, in April of 1975 we find some reluctance to accept these criticisms of the private health insurance funds and addiction to the position which was adopted in 1 969 by the present Opposition, the then Government, about which nothing was done in 3 years of government after that first report to which I referred was tabled. 
We should consider at all times the social purpose of the health insurance funds. Their social purpose under the existing health insurance scheme has been to provide benefits for contributors who belong to those private funds. It may be said that after Medibank comes into operation on 1 July 1975 their social purpose will be to provide benefits for those who still contribute to them in relation to private hospital care. I concede that in both matters that is a significant and important social purpose. But we must remember that the funds which they have accumulated during many years have been built up largely on the basis, as the Committee in 1970 reported, of a Commonwealth Government contribution of approximately 60 per cent. In those circumstances it is put to the Senate, as it has been put in numerous other places, that it is sheer dereliction of duty and dereliction of the function of government for the Government not to have a greater say, as this Bill provides, in the control and financial involvement of those funds. It may be said that in some respects the powers given to the Minister should have been given in another way. However, I do not understand that to be the real point of the criticism made. I understand the point of criticism really to be that that sort of control should not be vested in the Minister at all, that the right of application to the Australian 
Industrial Court should not be vested in the Minister in the way in which it is vested. We on this side put it quite simply that that is an abdication of responsibility of government, that it is inconsistent with previous positions adopted by the Liberal Party on this matter, that it is inconsistent with the findings of the Committee of the Senate, that it is inconsistent with the findings of the Nimmo report, and of course and not remarkably that it is inconsistent with the statement set out in the Green Paper on health insurance. I do not find that remarkable at all because that document, in a sense, expresses the Government's political view on the health insurance situation in Australia. 
Although we very much regret the attitude expressed by  Senator Guilfoyle,  we find it remarkable for its obscurantist consistency over many years in the face of facts found by Senate committees and by the Nimmo Committee, and in spite of all the debate that has raged in the community over these issues for all that length of time. Once again, we say that we cannot see either the logic of the position stated or what that will guarantee, after Medibank comes into existence, to people who wish to contribute for private hospital insurance to private funds. What will this position achieve in terms of the social purposes of health funds? What will it achieve in terms of the responsibilities of those funds? What will it achieve in terms of the administration of these funds, particularly having regard to the lack of contributor representation in their management? For all these reasons, which we regard as involving the fundamental principle in this matter, we say that the legislation should be supported by the Senate, and that the attitude expressed by  Senator Guilfoyle  of the Opposition is irresponsible. 
-The Senate is debating the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975 which is designed to regulate the securities industry in Australia by the establishment of a Corporations and Exchange Commission. The purpose, in simple terms, is to regulate the activities of the stock exchanges and large corporations in the interests of efficiency and the protection of the public. The Opposition, in these proceedings now, wants to delay the legislation by referring it to a select committee of the Senate for further examination. While all sorts of reasons are given for these supposedly necessary delays the basic reason, of course, is the inability of the Opposition to make up its own mind about a number of provisions of the Bill. One might ask the rhetorical question: For goodness sake, how long does that take? When we look at the history of this legislation we begin to get some idea of how long that takes. 
-I will come back to that later in my remarks. The Bill was introduced in the Senate for the first time in December 1974, not as  Senator Greenwood  told us earlier in this debate in March 1975. It has been available to all members of Parliament since late November 1974. It has been available through 2 recesses of this Parliament. Now, on 9 April 1975, the Opposition still has not determined its attitude to many of the issues raised by this legislation. Lack of time is pleaded as the reason for the failure to make up its mind. 
It is worth noting that since the Bill became available in 1 974 it has been the subject of much public discussion. It has been the subject of much Press comment. It has been the subject of representations to the Government by the stock exchanges. The provisions of the Bill have been the subject of public seminars. On 30 January this year the Law Society of New South Wales, the Commercial Law Association of New South Wales and the securities industry itself organised a public seminar on the provisions of this Bill. A number of comprehensive and thoughtful papers were presented. Similarly the Business Law Education Centre of Victoria organised a public seminar on this Bill in early March of this year at which the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  spoke. It seems that all people who are concerned with this legislation have been able to formulate their views and make up their minds about it except the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in the Senate. That, of course, is not an unfamiliar situation in contemporary politics in Australia. The truth of the matter is that the Opposition has been caught between its own high flown rhetoric in favour of this legislation and its natural inclinations which are against it and the belated concern on the other hand of its State government colleages who have suddenly discovered that they are concerned about this legislation in the interests of their own particular governments. 
What is the legislation all about? It is described, of course, as the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. It sounds pretty tedious stuff to the average Australian, but in fact it is pretty fundamental. It had its origins as a problem of transparent national importance in the early 1970s at the time of the great stock market boom in Australia. In 1970 a need was seen to examine the situation. On 19 March of that year the Senate appointed a select committee to investigate alleged abuses in the stock market. It had the specific function of determining what should be done about these abuses 'to enable the utmost protection of the members of the public and the national interest'. That was the purpose of the setting up of the committee to inquire into the matter. That committee took 4 years to report. It tabled its report on 18 July 1974. Even then the report was incomplete. It was not a final report. In October of 1974  Senator Rae  told the Senate: 
I can inform the Senate that the chapter on Queensland Mines is in an advanced stage of preparation ... the chapter on recommendations requires drafting and the drawing together of the recommendations which exist. Part of that work- not all of it- has been done. 
He went on to say that it would be done very quickly. What does the Opposition want to do in April 1975? It does not want to consider the Bill and does not want to consider whether the final report should now be here; it wants to adjourn the question to another committee for further investigation. That is what is wanted in April 1 975 after this 5-year history. 
What did the Senate Committee find in relation to its task of assessing the public interest and the national interest in this matter? What did it find after 4 years examination? In the words of the 'Financial Review' it found 'a catalogue of abuses and malpractices in the securities market'. In the words of the same paper it found 'a long chronicle of duplicity, share rigging, insider trading and hoodwinking of private investors'. That is what the Committee established by this Senate found in July 1974. Lest anybody should forget, the chapter headings of the Rae report, as it is sometimes called and which was tabled in July 1974, remind the people of Australia of some of the things which were regarded as important by that Committee. I ask honourable senators to examine some of the chapter headings. They are: 'Insights Into The Poseidon Boom; Financial Structure and Profits of Member Firms of the Stock Exchange; The Conflicts of John T. Martin &amp; Co.; The Default of Michael Ricketson &amp; Co.; The Failure of an Adelaide Broker-Underwriter; Investment Consultants, Sharebrokers and Share Tipping; Runs, Pools and Rumours; A Case of Conflicting Associations in a Run; Abuses and Malpractices in the Making and Disposal of Private Issues; Some Market Practices in Public Issues; Queensland Mines; Minsec; The Failings of the Existing Regulators; The Need for an Australian Securities Commission'. These are the chapter headings of the Senate Committee's report. To that list one might add Tasminex NL and Barewa Ltd and others to the role of dishonour of the heyday of laissez faire government in this country under the Liberal and Country Parties, the halcyon days of unregulated, free enterprise when greed was the principal ingredient in the great Australian dream.  Senator Sheil  tonight referred to those days as those exciting times when everybody punted on the stock exchange. It is an interesting analogy, 'when everybody punted on the stock exchange'. If one carries this line of thought through it puts the stock exchange in the same category as bookmakers and racecource touts. This honourable profession of stockbroker is reduced by his analogy to the level of racecourse touts. We do not believe that they are in that category at all. We believe that something has to be done. The need was seen 5 years ago and something has to be done pretty quickly. What is hoped for, of course, is that the Poseidon boom, the Minsec boom and so on, when millions of Australians lost money as a result of malpractices, will now be seen somehow through charitable mists of retrospect. We can look back but no longer in anger; this happened 5 years ago, there is no need really to do anything about it. 
-This is the hope of  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues. It is their hope that we will forget all about these events and he, as a responsible alternative legislator in this country, will be freed from the embarrassment of these sorts of considerations. 
-That is right. But unfortunately, that will not happen. This Bill will not suffer the same fate as the Trade Practices legislation which the Opposition, when in government, talked about for a decade but did nothing. It will not suffer that same fate. What we must remember about that period of Australian history- all Australians will remember it- is that the dream suddenly became a nightmare for thousands and thousands of people in our community. 
-Well millions, if  Senator Sheil  likes.  His  guess would be better than mine.  Senator Sheil  told us earlier that he was a punting man. But let us not be concerned about whether it is thousands or millions because  Senator Sheil,  as a responsible member of Parliament, would of course be concerned if it involved 100 people. But the fact is that it is thousands and possibly millions. In April 1975, in spite of all this, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition wants further time to consider what we should do about this legislation to regulate the situation to which I have referred. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange reported in 
July 1974. It was mindful, no doubt, of its charter to provide the utmost protection for the public and the national interest. It recommended that a securities and corporations commission be established 'forthwith'- a pretty unequivocal expression, one would have thought. 

 -Because, Senator Greenwood, however unpalatable it may be to the Opposition, we are the Government and it is not. The majority of the recommendations of the report are in this legislation. In April 1 975, as I said, in spite of that injunction to deal with that matter forthwith, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition still wants further time to consider the Bill. Let us look at what the Government has done in answer to that injunction to proceed forthwith. In early 1973, before the Committee had even reported but when malpractices had been revealed, the Attorney-General's Department commenced work on a draft Bill. It engaged experts to consider the type of legislation which should be brought forward to deal with this problem. They consulted with the stock exchanges and prepared draft Bills and distributed them to the stock exchanges. Officers of the Attorney-General 's Department discussed it with numerous brokers in this community. Numerous amendments were made to the draft Bills on the recommendations of interested parties. 
-Senator Greenwood, if you have difficulty in accepting the fact that the Opposition is not the Government, I sympathise with you but I am not prepared to do anything about it during the course of this debate. It is a fact. We consulted interested parties in the community and we accepted their recommendations. What does the Opposition want to do now? It wants to defer the matter, in  Senator Guilfoyle  's words, 'to hear further evidence'. Who is to hear the evidence? The Opposition in the Senate is to hear further evidence, one presumes. Again, the Opposition wants a further delay of this legislation. 
The famous report, euphemistically called the Rae Report' and described by the 'Financial Review' in discussing this national problem as Rae's blockbuster', now appears to be defused by  Senator Greenwood's  bomb disposal squad. The blockbuster element is to be taken out of it. The bluster is to be retained but the blockbuster element is to be taken out of it. It is to be defused and no longer will the report historically be known as 'Rae 's blockbuster'. If one looks at the terms of the motion which seeks to adjourn this matter, in effect, one finds how totally specious this bomb disposal squad is in the operation which it intends to embark upon. The whole truth of the matter, in spite of the empty rhetoric we have heard in the Senate today, is of course revealed in today's 'Financial Review'. Today's Financial Review' says that the State non-Labor governments have mounted a campaign to have the Bill scrapped, not deferred after these 5 years, but scrapped. The Press report refers to a meeting which took place between  Mr Maddison,  the Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr Wilcox,  the Attorney-General of Victoria whom  Senator Guilfoyle  seems to find some room to admire,  Mr Knox  of Queensland and  Mr McNeil  of Western Australia. That is an interesting collection, if ever there was one. As a result of representations by that group it appears that the motivation of the Senate Opposition now becomes quite clear. Not really is it the stock exchanges which oppose this legislation because they have not done so in the sort of terms we have heard today. Not really is it the experts, not really is it the public which opposes this legislation or which wants to delay it, but it is the Opposition in the Senate- the Opposition in cahoots with their Liberal colleagues in State governments. What it is doing, of course, is really getting up to its old tricks again. The Opposition is listening again to the ideological fringe dwellers of Australia on this issue and determining its attitude as a result of that piece of eavesdropping. Everybody knows that that is not a relevant consideration for the problem with which this Parliament is faced. 

 -Well, Senator Greenwood, it would take me about an hour to enumerate them but they are most of your friends. Let me put it that way: They are your friends. I congratulate  Senator Greenwood  on having friends. Everybody knows that the securities industry cannot be regulated by State legislation. Every first year law student knows that and I am sure that  Senator Greenwood  does, too. 
They are probably better in Victoria than they are in Western Australia. I do not know. Most law students would know that. It is quite clear, even to  Senator Durack,  that this is not an area of securities control legislation where there is room for any State right interest. As the 'Australian Financial Review' put it, here is an area where there is no room for State righters. As a contemporary Samuel Johnson might remark, State rightism on this issue is the last refuge of the scoundrels. It is becoming not only the last refuge of the scoundrels but also of those in this Parliament who seek to hide the activities of the scoundrels. When the Senate Opposition listens to  Mr Wilcox  and others about what it should do about this matter, it illustrates that there is no new broom in the Liberal Party, that that is all a sham. It is the same old thing again. Just as the last leader of the Liberal Party refused to assert his authority over  Mr Lewis  in New South Wales when he flouted a constitutional convention, so the present Leader of the Liberal Opposition has refused to exert his authority in an area which is properly the field of Commonwealth legislation without any interference from the interest of the States in legislative form. It is another example of exactly the same thing. 
In accepting this sort of view the Liberal Opposition in the Senate has abandoned its moral right to call itself an alternative government in the national Parliament of this country. The Opposition is up to its old tricks. It mouths the platitudes of public interest and progressive reform and shakes in its shoes at the possibility of any change in the existing situation in this country. We have a pretty poor course record in referring this problem to committees in the Senate because it has taken 5 years already. It will take another 5 years if the Opposition really has any influence on the matter. 
Of course it is what they want. If I may say so,  Senator McLaren,  you expressed that with your usual eloquence. 
-No, but we can take that matter up at another time if the honourable senator wishes to do so. There is still the same old refusal to accept that we are in government in Australia and the present Opposition is not. Unpalatable as it may be, that is really what it amounts to because it is the Government's responsibility to deal with this matter and to proceed with this legislation. Over and above every platitude which has ever been uttered on this issue by the Opposition it is the Government 's responsibility to proceed with it now. The Government will not go away with a wave of Malcolm 's magic wand. Our responsibility as a government is to proceed with this legislation because, as it was found in 1974 and suggested as long ago as 1970, there is a pressing national need for this matter to proceed. 
What does the Opposition want? It wants to delay the legislation again. It is not my job, of course, to tell the Opposition what it should do, but it is within my province perhaps to say what its responsibility might be. Its responsibility is surely to face up to its own platitudes on the issue, to debate this important national issue now in the national Parliament and to use its numbers, if it wishes, to pass amendments to the legislation. But its responsibility is not to defer the legislation in the way it has sought to do and in the way which experience has shown us is merely putting the whole issue on a sort of carousel of public debate. The Opposition's obligation is to proceed with the legislation now. 
I could, senator, but it is not my obligation to do so in the course of this debate because you have the carriage of the issue. You moved the amendment and you are anxious - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)- Senator Button,  you would be better off addressing the chair and ignoring interjections. Your time is running out. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I will ignore the interjections and conclude on this note: This is a matter of national and important public interest. It is a matter of concern that it be delayed no longer. The Opposition must stand condemned by its own amendment and its own failure to confront the problem which it has recognised in its public utterances but cannot really confront in the conclaves of its Party. 
I rise to speak very briefly on this matter. I will be brief following  Senator Hall's  remarks which contained an extraordinary degree of histrionic moral rectitude in relation to the Government's approach to this matter. I would not be surprised if he walked across the lake at lunch time in order to make that speech this afternoon. I should say, in defence of the Government's positionindeed, in defence of the Opposition's amendment which I will support- that from the beginning of this matter I believed that members of both sides, until we were informed otherwise by  Senator Hall  a few minutes ago, have approached the matter with the greatest desire to be fair to  Senator Webster  and to be fair to anyone else who might be concerned in this matter. Now I, as  Senator Webster  knows, have not been a political supporter of his over the years. I have had occasions in this chamber to be reminded, when I listen to  Senator Webster,  of the words of the national anthem: 
Confound their politics, Frustrate their knavish tricks. 
But that is not the sort of issue which we are debating in this manner. Though I may have that view of  Senator Webster  and he may have that view of me in political debates in which we have participated, I do not think that either of us believes that the question with which the motion and the amendment deals is related to our respective political views.  Senator Hall  said that the intent of the Government, and, by implication, of the Opposition, is to throw  Senator Webster  to the wolves and that that would salve the conscience of the Senate and allow this subsequent judicial inquiry to proceed,  Senator Webster  already having been made a scapegoat. If that view is correct, I want to look at the alternative. As I understand the history of this matter, it was raised before a joint committee of this Parliament, not by a member of the Parliament but by somebody outside it. It has become an issue of public discussion and concern in the Australian community, and the Government and the Opposition, I believe sincerely, had to consider in this atmosphere what their obligations were in relation to the matter. I think that if  Senator Hall's  amendment were passed it might be prejudicial to  Senator Webster's  position, and unless somebody could convince me otherwise I would not support  Senator Steele  Hall's amendment, simply for that reason. I think that if the main part of the motion were delayed for a further period the situation might be detrimental to  Senator Webster  personally. 
The Government has already indicated that it supports the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Withers.  I am concerned to say that it does not seem to me to be our function to investigate a whole series of possible circumstances which might fall within the scope of section 44 of the Constitution. That is a function that we are endeavouring, by the proposed amendment, to invest in a judicial inquiry. 

 -As Senator Cavanagh points out, then it is only a legal opinion that we will get. But it may be a legal opinion which has a greater influence on both sides of the Senate than the legal opinions and the bush legal opinions that have been expressed in the course of this debate. I do not pretend to know what section 44 means but I would draw the attention of the Senate to the views of some authorities on what the section might mean. I refer first of all to Quick and Garran 's work titled: 'The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth'. Their comment on section 44 is in these terms: 
This is a disability arising from any contract or agreement for valuable consideration, which any person may have entered into to supply any goods or perform any service to the Government of the Commonwealth. In England, Government contractors are disqualified under 22 Geo. III. c. 43, sec 1. The reason for the disqualification of Government contractors is that they are supposed to be liable to the influence of their employers. 
At a later stage they say: 
Government contractors, being supposed to be liable to the influence of their employers, are disqualified from serving in Parliament. 
Lumb and Ryan in their work titled: 'The Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia Annotated ' carry on from that comment in these terms: 
This section was based on the traditional English prohibition which was designed to diminish the power of the Crown to exert corrupt influence over Parliament. 
Government contractors, Le., persons who deal with the public service by providing goods or services are disqualified. However, the phrase 'pecuniary interest' implies that the agreement between the member and the Crown or public service (whether it be government department or instrumentality) must be for valuable consideration. Performance of services gratis is not covered. 
The paragraph does not apply to the situation where a member of Parliament indirectly benefits from a government grant, e.g., as a member of an agricultural body which receives government assistance. 
That example amongst others has been freely discussed in the passages of this building in the last few weeks. 
I am not giving evidence.  Senator Webster  may say something about that if he wants to. If they are the sorts of things he wants to go into he is at liberty to do that and he, like anyody else, would be at liberty to give evidence to the judicial committee which the amendment proposes to establish. That course may satisfy  Senator Webster  in some way and it may satisfy  Senator Steele  Hall, who is trying to interject. He too might wish to give evidence to such a committee. 
The point I am making is that we are talking about a section of the Constitution which dates from the beginning of this century. The only really relevant views on that section of the Constitution that we can take are the views of authorities such as Quick and Garran who presumably knew what was in the minds of the legislators of the time. In 1975 we are confronted with a section of the Constitution which is obviously ludicrous in the context of our current situation of government. That is the other point which I wanted to make in the course of this debate. It seems to me to be very sad that the first occasion on which the Opposition in this chamber takes it upon itself suddenly to discover vices in the Constitution and suddenly to discover that it is an antiquated document and not relevant to the contemporary situation is when the pecuniary interests of members of this Parliament are involved. Time and time again we have been told that the Constitution is an adequate document and that there is no need for amendment of it. Because the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament are involved we are suddenly told that the Constitution, in this respect at least, is an antiquated document. That is a view which I share. 
It is a view which I share. I would not want to be interpreted as being unfair to that committee, particularly if  Senator Wright  serves on it. Nothing has been done until this moment to point out the inadequacies of this section of the Constitution in contemporary society. I honestly believe that the remarks made by  Senator Steele  Hall in this debate are misplaced and misrepresent the intentions and the goodwill of people in this Parliament. I honestly believe that on the Government side every effort has been made in the circumstances with which the Government is faced. 
As a Government senator I have been asked on a number of occasions what we are doing about the situation. I am sure Opposition senators have been asked also. In the circumstances which we face the only proper course to take is that outlined in the motion which was moved by the Government in this chamber yesterday. I would add that I believed that the Opposition took a proper course in raising the other matters which are dealt with in this amendment. Every member of this chamber and every member of the House of Representatives must be concerned to know the answers to the questions which are specifically set out as matters of inquiry in the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Withers,  particularly the matters which are raised in sub-clause 3 of that proposed amendment, which is whether sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution are appropriate provisions in present-day circumstances and conditions. 
I feel quite strongly that if there is a witch hunt element in this debate-  Senator Hall  used the phrase- it has been brought about by the sort of allegations which he has made. I regret the circumstances in which  Senator Webster  finds himself. As a person who tries to be a responsible member of" the Senate, I feel I would have no alternative, in view of the history of this matterwhat took place before the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests, what has taken place in public debate and in the Press- but to support the Government motion, much as I regret any personal embarrassment to  Senator Webster  who happens to be involved. I also welcome the Opposition amendment because I believe that at least it will bring to light a whole series of answersone hopes- to the questions which are raised in the proposed amendment to the motion. I hope that members of this chamber will continue, as I believe they have done in the past, to approach this matter in good faith and to support both the motion of the Government and the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Opposition. 
My question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General relates to 2 prominent public figures who are not members of the Government but both of whom have given distinguished service to this Parliament. Is the Minister aware of widespread rumours fed by the media, falsely suggesting that these 2 men have been named as co-respondents in a petition for divorce filed in the Victorian Supreme Court? Will the Minister, in his capacity as the Minister representing the Attorney-General who is responsible for the administration of the Matrimonial Causes Act, give the Senate, in the interests of fairness and justice, any information which he has regarding this matter? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security relates to the prospect of Victoria joining the hospital side of Medibank. Is the Minister aware that the Victorian Minister of Health recently instructed an advertising agency to prepare an advertising campaign seeking to explain to the Victorian people why they would not be in Medibank on 1 July? Is it correct that the advertising agency in question sought material from the Hospitals and Charities Commission in Victoria to support this advertising campaign? Was the agency informed by the Commission that there was no material available which would support the Victorian Government's case? 
-The Senate is debating the Racial Discrimination Bill. I want to speak briefly to the Bill.  Senator Laucke,  who preceded me in the debate, confused me with some of the attitudes he took towards the Bill, particularly that which he expressed as a desire to abolish class discrimination. It is thought in certain parts of the world that the only way in which that can be done is by the abolishing of classes. In a sense I suppose that I subscribe to that view, but I think that it should be a slow and painless process rather than the painful sort that  Senator Laucke  might have had in mind. 
I turn to the basic principles of this Bill, which I do not think were discussed during the last few contributions to the debate. More general matters have been dealt with. The first of those basic principles is that racial discrimination should be proscribed by law and that fundamental rights should be guaranteed without distinction as to race. I think that the essential stating of that principle is contained in clause 9 of the Bill. It is the view of the Government and the authors of the Bill that the written expression of rights is an important way of preserving them and of ensuring that they remain preserved and that people have a better opportunity in that circumstance of knowing what are their rights. The infringement of those rights would then become much more conspicuous in our community. So the outlawing of racial discrimination by legal sanctions is also a basis for changing community standards. 
The second principle that I think is inherent in the Bill is that there should be a comprehensive set of legal remedies for the enforcement of rights. Those legal remedies are set out in clause 26 of the Bill and are, I believe, to be subject to some amendments that have been suggested by the Opposition. But the emphasis in the enforcement of those rights is on civil rather than criminal sanctions. The reason for that, of course, has already been expressed during the course of this debate, namely, that it is felt that the imposition of criminal sanctions would in fact exacerbate rather than lessen the problems with which this Bill is concerned. 
The third principle contained in the Bill is the emphasis on conciliation machinery for the enforcement of rights.  Senator Greenwood  had something to say about this section of the Bill. He cast some doubts on the constitutional validity of some of the clauses of the Bill. I thought that throughout his speech he was constantly casting doubts in a prophetic sort of way in speaking of the future of this Bill. In the silence of my room I dubbed him 'Doubting Ivor' rather than the prophet Doubting Thomas. In the view of the Government the importance of conciliation procedures cannot be over-estimated. It is a practice which has been widely accepted in North America- in both Canada and the United States- in the United Kingdom and in New Zealand. It is felt to be a fairly obvious proposition in the view of the Government that racial tension is best resolved by conciliation and not by enforcement. 
As a fourth principle the Bill emphasises the importance of the use of education and other programs to combat racial discrimination. I think that  Senator Laucke  was saying that this could be said to be high in his priorities in his approach to this legislation. I think that it must be regarded as being very high in the Government's priorities. The provisions relating to education and research in fact distinguish this legislation from the legislation in the United Kingdom which has not perhaps been as successful as the Government of that country might have wished. A need is seen for the use of positive programs as a supplement to the provisions of the Bill- positive programs of education, cultural exchange, research and activity at a local community level in relation to racial problems. To meet these objectives the functions of the Commissioner for Community Relations are to foster the purposes of the legislation and promote its acceptance in the community and likewise to promote the principles of the United Nations convention on which the legislation is based. 
Laws are important, but if they are not backed up by a program of education and research it is felt that this legislation will not be able to go to the length that is desired in helping to solve this problem in Australia. I have said 'helping to solve this problem in Australia' because nobody on this side of the House would pretend for one moment that by passing a racial discrimination Bill we are in any way solving the problem of racial discrimination in Australia. I think that the highest we can seriously put it is that we believe- of course, we gather that the Opposition also believes- that the passing of this legislation will assist and facilitate the lessening of racial discrimination in Australia. As I have said before, we lay particular emphasis on education and research in that regard. 
So much for the general principles of the Bill, which are, firstly, that for the first time in the history of this country other than in the State of South Australia we have a defined statement of rights; secondly, that there is a comprehensive set of legal remedies for enforcement; thirdly, that there is to be emphasis placed on conciliation; and, fourthly, that there is to be emphasis placed on education and research. Perhaps the most important of those, as I have said, is the last one. At this time one million Australians are involved because approximately one million Australians belong to ethnic minorities in various parts of this country. 
Only last week in my fair to muddling city of Melbourne I attended a large inner suburban high school. Eighty-five per cent of the students at that high school were of migrant origin. A large percentage of that 85 per cent had language difficulties. All sorts of forms of subtle discriminations are at work in an institution of education situated in that inner suburb of Melbourne. If we are to progress as a united and cohesive society we have an obligation to do everything in our power to prevent the development of ethnic ghettoes in our community, with the residents discriminated against in employment, in housing, in legal remedies and even in their ability to obtain insurance cover, which is a matter we have heard referred to a lot in the Senate in the last few days. If I can make the simple point in another way- referring again to the city of Melbourne- I wonder how long it is since anybody has seen a labourer employed by the Victorian Railways or the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board who is an Australian by birth and ethnic origin. If one looks at another society such as the United States, the point can be made by saying simply that black may be beautiful but black also is poverty. That point is no better expressed than in a novel like James Baldwin 's 'The Fire Next Time '. 
I wanted to say something about the role of the Commissioner for Community Relations as a conciliator. The Bill establishes a Commissioner for Community Relations, and again the importance in his role of mediation is emphasised. He has to be an independent and impartial conciliator. That is different from the English legislation. The success of the Canadian human rights commissions such as the one in Ontario is due partly to the emphasis placed on independence and an impartial approach. For example, in the Ontario code the commission is enjoined to inquire into complaints and endeavour to effect a settlement of the matter complained of. He is not asked to determine rights in the same sense as his equivalent is required to do under the British Race Relations Act. The British Race Relations Board is required to make a judgement of the issues between the parties but it has no power to compulsorily acquire evidence as this Bill now before the Senate provides. 
So there are 2 fundamental differences between this Bill and the British legislation. The first is that the Board in Britain is required to make a determination; secondly, it has no power to compulsorily acquire evidence; indeed there is a third difference, namely, that the Act in Britain does not establish the same sort of educative function as the Bill now before the Senate. A lot of criticisms have been made of the British Race Relations Board. Indeed,  Senator Greenwood  spoke of it as if it were much the same sort of thing as is being proposed in this legislation. 

 -No, Senator, that is not correct. The fact of the matter is that this legislation has been foreshadowed in this Parliament for some time. During that time the Government has taken advice and has considered legislation from, I think, every country which has legislation with a similar purpose. If this legislation has any strong relationship with that of other countries, it is clearly with that of the provinces of Canada and not with the United Kingdom Race Relations Board. But even in England, where the Board is said not to have had a great deal of success, I noted when I was there in 1973 that there was a big debate about the activities of the Race Relations Board, not directed at the existence of the Board but at whether certain machinery provisions under the Act could be changed, and whether they were working as well as they might. That is an important consideration when attempting to make comparisons with legislation in other countries. 
I said that the Government had considered closely overseas legislation, and I believe that the more informed Senators on the other side of the House also have taken the trouble to do that. While that is true, the origins of the Bill can be found perhaps in the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination which was signed by Australia in 1966. Since 1966 nothing very much happened in this country in relation to racial discrimination until this legislation was introduced. It is an interesting fact and a very happy fact for this country that both major political parties have in their platforms clauses which specifically deplore racial discrimination. The Liberal Party has it and the Government Party has it. So it is a question, not of joining one another in rhetoric about this problem but of determining what should be done, and this legislation is a response to that need. 
In 1971 the Australian United Nations Association set up in Australia a committee to combat racism and racial discrimination. That committee, which had the support and co-operation of all the major churches in Australia, most major welfare organisations and both major political parties, made representations to State and Commonwealth governments asking them to introduce legislation prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of race. It is not true to say, as  Senator Greenwood  said earlier in this debate, that that was done. What was done was that the Australian States were asked in the late 1960s to remove specifically discriminatory clauses from their legislation. That is a vastly different thing, and I believe it has been done in most States of Australia, with the possible exception of certain legislation in the State of Queensland. The only State to respond to the request of the United Nations Association committee was the State of South Australia. As the committee reported at the end of 197 1 , South Australia acted quickly to introduce legislation, but no positive response has been received from other governments. I believe the Victorian Government is now considering such legislation, but apart from that, the legislation now before the Senate is the first positive response to the challenge which was thrown out by that committee in 1971. 
I want to turn very briefly to the question of the need for this legislation. I believe very strongly that it is necessary. I have my own biases, of course. I am attracted by the notion in the long term of a multi-racial society, both from a genetic point of view and from a cultural point of view, but I realise that there are very grave difficulties in that notion. I have no difficulty with the sort of question which is raised: 'Would you like your daughter to marry a Malaysian?' I have in fact advised my sons that they should take every opportunity to do that if it ever comes their way. So my biases in this matter are different from those of some other people. I believe very firmly in this legislation because I believe it is an important step towards changing community standards. I hope I have not offended  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack because he is one of the standards which might have to be changed, but there are some who doubt that. 
-That may be so, and I hope we will hear more about that from the honourable senator later because the problem is that he did not have much success. When I was going around in nappies there was a lot of racial discrimination in this country and there still is. I see in 1975 a very great need for this legislation, but I recognise that there is a legitimate matter of debate about whether there is a need. Most honourable senators will have read yesterday's Australian' in which a letter appeared from a lady who described herself as being of British race. I think her name was  Mrs Garnet,  but I might have the name wrong. The lady in question took great pains to describe the Racial Discrimination Bill as rubbish, and she used other terminology of a similar kind. That view is one which frequently surfaces, and it was expressed with some force as recently as yesterday in the letter in the 'Australian'. I refer, for example, to the activities of the League of Rights in Victoria and elsewhere and to the activities of the Immigration Control Association which I think forwards to most honourable senators a copy of its publication 'Viewpoint'. If one looks at the December 1974 issue of 'Viewpoint' as an example- it is one of the least offensive examples I have seen- it will be seen that the issue is devoted to explaining the Association's activities in the electorate of Riverina at the time of the May 1 974 election. In a number of the advertisements which the Association republished in this publication things like this appear: 
If you want an Asian neighbour vote Labor . . . 
There are other things of that sort. There is a second advertisement which says that the Government refused to continue the phosphate bounty amounting to $56m. The advertisement goes on to say: 
But this year that same Labor Government is giving away six times that amount, $330m, in handouts (gifts) to Asian and African demagogues. 
You've been robbed. 
A further advertisement says: 
Don't let Grassby turn your country into a . . .multicoloured mess. 
I affirm the right of Australians to hold those views. They are quite entitled to hold those views and I affirm their right to state them, but in so doing I must ask the Senate to look at the effect of that sort of propaganda in a society such as ours where both political parties condemn this sort of thing; in a society such as ours situated in an Asian region, in a society in which the Leader of the Opposition is suggesting that several thousand refugees from Vietnam should be permitted to come into this country when the Government is regularly admitting migrants from South-East Asian countries according to certain guidelines. Look at it in that context and ask: What sort of effect does that type of pamphlet have on children and people in the sort of communities in which it is disseminated because the implications in it are quite clear? People can say those things. They ought to be able to say those things if they want to, but let us not avoid the implications. The implications of course are that there is something unhealthy and something wrong about having an Asian neighbour, and that there is something unhealthy and something wrong about giving money to people in Asian and African countries and so on and that at another level there is something wrong about a multicoloured country. 
I agree with  Senator Laucke  that of course multi-racial societies have problems. Nobody here is seriously suggesting that passing this legislation we shall introduce a multi-racial society tomorrow and invite all those sorts of problems which are attendant upon societies of that kind. The effect of this sort of propaganda is really, I think, a very insidious one and a very bad one for the people in this community because we have to face up, as every politician and as every national figure in this country keeps telling us, to the fact that we live in a part of the world in which people are of different colour, of different cultures, of different incomes and so on. 
If one needs any further example of the activities of the group to which I referred earlier it is interesting to see what it says about this Bill in relation to marriage because this shows not the level of this group's prejudice but the level of the group's logic. This group says that under the Commonwealth Racial Discrimination Bill and Human Rights Bill and the Victorian Avoidance of Discrimination Bill a person who chooses to marry his or her race, ethnic group, nationality, or religion, and not to marry a person of another race, ethnic group, nationality or religion, does an act involving a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on colour, descent, national or ethnic origin or religion can be prosecuted and could happen under the Racial Discrimination Bill. I can summarise that view. As I understand it, what this group is saying is that according to the view which it is spreading about the Racial Discrimination Bill a person who makes a choice to marry a person of Australian ethnic origin can be prosecuted because that is racially discriminatory, but of course that is just stupid and it is typical of the sort of thing which is printed in this type of publication I referred to earlier. 
I want to refer to one other example of this sort of discrimination in our society. Last week there was an event in Melbourne which was described as a march against communism. I understand it was basically a march of women by women for women. Quite a large number of people attended it, including  Mr Tony  Staley, the honourable member for Chisholm. I again affirm, as I did earlier, the right of people to march against communism. I affirm their right to do that if by so doing they are expressing their dislike of the grey and palsied hand of authoritarianism which exists in so-called communist societies, but observers at that march tell me that the sort of thing which was being said by speakers and displayed on placards and things of that kind was that we should send no medicines, food or hospital supplies to countries in SouthEast Asia because they are Asian countries, and in particular in the case of Vietnam because it is now a communist country. It was said that we should not take into this country any refugees from Vietnam because they are coloured. These are the sorts of things which were being said in this atmosphere of engendered anxiety and so on in this rather depressing and pathetic demonstration which took place in Melbourne last week. I say that in our society we cannot condone these sort of manifestations of fear, neuroticism and anxiety. 
I say that this legislation should be supported not because we can hold out great hopes for changing our social and racial attitudes overnight, not because we are going to create some new Utopia here which has not existed anywhere else in the world, not because we are a better people than any other people in the world and therefore are more capable of solving racial problems, but because I believe that it will help us to change our society towards a greater tolerance and acceptance of people of different backgrounds, different colour and so on. I believe that everyone with a sense of national rather than parochial responsibility and everyone who has a humane rather than a materialist priority will support this legislation. I commend it to the Senate. 
-The Senate is debating the Trade Union Training Authority Bill 1975. 1 hope that in my contribution to the debate I am somewhat less gloomy than my predecessor,  Senator Scott.  If he expressed himself as being hopeful about the future of the Trade Union Training Authority I would hate to hear him speaking dismally about anything in this Senate. The Bill seeks to establish an Authority, the functions of which are set out in clause 5. They are, broadly speaking, to undertake and carry out the planning and development of trade union education and training in Australia per medium of training centres and other institutions and bodies. I draw attention to the expression 'by other institutions and bodies'. The framework of the clause seems to suggest to me that it is not envisaged that these activities will be carried on in a sort of intellectual and educational ghetto such as  Senator Scott  fears. The functions of the Authority are set out in clause 5 and they relate to trade union training. I refer the Senate to the definition of 'trade union training' as it appears in clause 3. The definition is as follows:  trade union training' means- 
a) educational, technical or practical training- 
capable of advancing and developing an understanding of the functions and objectives of trade unions in Australian society; or 
capable of advancing and developing knowledge and skills in fields connected with the powers and functions of trade unions or the powers, functions and duties of officers or officials of trade unions; and 
educational, technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other fields approved by the Australian Council; 
The scope of trade union training as described in clause 3 in my view falls into 2 parts. There is, firstly, the question of technical trade union training- that is to say, making trade union officials better functionaries, if I can use that horrible word. Secondly, in sub-paragraph (b) of that definition there is a much wider concept expressed in terms of general technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other field. 
I think it is important at the outset to emphasise the dichotomy of or difference between the two aspects of training which the Authority will be authorised to carry out in accordance with the Bill. The purpose of the legislation, as I said, is to establish a national authority to carry out these functions and to provide continuing education facilities for trade union officials and their members. It might well be envisaged that there will be a college established where the main purposes of the legislation will be carried out; that there will be a college well staffed by competent and highly trained experts in the field and that it will provide courses of a great variety, including residential courses for officials and members and their families, short weekend seminars and things of that kind. Trade union officials are, in many respects, a much maligned group in our society, they are much maligned because the obligations cast upon them in Australia are really quite horrifying. 
-Senator Steele Hall laughs but he might refer to some of those obligations in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act some time and ask himself whether he would like them cast upon him. They are very considerable. It is true to say that a good trade union official in 
Australia must have first of all a knowledge of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He must have a knowledge of the rules of his union. He must possess, if possible, something of the arts of advocacy. He should know something about economics. He should know something about the art of negotiating and he should, if possible, have qualities of leadership which are not required by vast numbers of people in our community exercising responsibilities for which they receive the same sort of remuneration. In addition, he has the added burden of knowing that if he does not perform in these areas and does not reach up to the requirements which go to make up a sort of six million dollar man', he has to face at periodic intervals an election which might result in his losing his job. That is not an unfamiliar situation to members of Parliament but perhaps the circumstances which face a trade union official are slightly more onerous than the circumstances in which my colleague  Senator Georges  finds himself, reclining, as he is, on the bench on my left. 
The sort of problems I refer to which have to be faced by trade union officials are encountered in any country. They are encountered particularly in countries like the United Kingdom. But I suggest that they are compounded in Australia, absolutely compounded, by the Federal structure of Government which we have. We have 13 different bodies responsible for industrial regulation in this country. We have the somewhat legalistic nature of the conciliation and arbitration system which flows from that Federal structure. Furthermore, we have 300 trade union organisations throughout Australia. 
I could not agree more with  Senator Steele  Hall- far too many. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Button  is addressing the Chair. 

 -As Senator Hall interjected a moment ago, there are far too many trade union organisations in Australia, and this is a problem that adds to the complexity of the life and work of a trade union official. I talked about the obligations which Australian society particularly, as distinct from other societies, casts upon trade union officials and I think it is very important to look at the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself and at its objects because they give some indication of the obligations which that Act casts on the union official and on society. If one looks at the objects of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission it seems to me to be quite clear that we have an obligation as a Parliament to provide the sort of facilities that this Bill provides. Objects (e) and (f) of section 2 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are as follows: 
To encourage the organisation of representative bodies of employers and employees and their registration under this Act. 
To encourage the democratic control of organisations so registered and the full participation by members of such an organisation in the affairs of the organisation. 
When I turn to some of the specific provisions of this Bill I would ask honourable senators who are concerned about this subject to bear in mind those two objects of the Act because in my view they cast obligations not only on the people involved in industrial relations in this country but also on this Parliament to support this sort of legislation to the hilt. I said that one of the complications facing trade union officials is the legalistic nature of the conciliation and arbitration system. Some day I hope we will have a debate in this Senate about industrial relations, as distinct from selected readings from the works of officials of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which so endear themselves to the hearts of Opposition senators. I hope we will have a debate in this Senate about the philosophical basis of industrial relations in Australia. 
-One observation I would like to make right at the start is that the Arbitration Commission in Australia builds into the system of industrial relations an adversary system which in many people's minds is superimposed on pre-existing and, in my view, somewhat primitive notions of class struggle. We have sort of institutionalised in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the system as it has worked an adversary system between employer and employee, and when  Senator Scott  expresses the view that this college could really be for a sort of buddy-buddy weekend between management and unionists I think he is missing the point. 
-I point out to  Senator Wright  that the very legislation of this Parliament which stems from his beloved Constitution builds in that adversary factor. I share  Senator Scott's  wish that we should escape from it as much as possible. But it is just too glib to say that in pursuing objects of this kind one can turn this into a sort of industrial relations society or a sort of debating club where management and unions get together. I believe it misses the point of the legislation completely. I said there were 2 views of the function of this education authority. The first view which  Senator Scott  seemed to espouse was that union officials can be made better in a sort of functional way; they can learn to keep their offices tidier, they can run their offices more efficiently, keep better balance sheets and records, and be more efficient managers. That is all very desirable, I think we would all agree, and that of course would be embraced within the scope of the legislation. 
But there is of course a much broader view of what the legislation and the authority should effect and it arises, as I pointed out earlier, from paragraph (b) of the definition of trade union training, which refers to much wider aspects of education. I express this as a broader view because we live at present in a country that is espousing with tremendous enthusiasm on all sides notions of technical and further education, the concept of free tertiary education and management training schemes, and the provision in numerous universities and colleges of advanced education of management training courses. Our society espouses all those things with alacrity because it is felt that somehow they will produce efficiency and growth. I believe that we on both sides of this House also espouse to a large extent the principles of the national employment and training scheme. If I may express a personal view I think it is perhaps time that we came to reconsider our educational priorities. I am not making any pre-Budget comment; I am just saying that in philosophical terms it is perhaps time we began to reconsider educational priorities and the vast sums of money that are poured into institutions of the kind to which I have referred. 
-I know  Senator Guilfoyle  said that; I heard her say it, and I do not retreat with horror from the suggestion that  Senator Guilfoyle  made. Of course it will be the Government's prerogative to determine whether  Senator Guilfoyle  's view in the way it was expressed will be carried out. However, as I say, we live in a society that accepts somewhat unquestionably all these things and we live in a society where there are great projections of increased leisure. Notions of continuing education are constantly being discussed and there is a rapidly changing technology. All these things have an effect on the trade union movement and on the capacity and understanding of trade union officials but, more importantly, if trade unionists and officials are to keep pace with these changes there is a need for the authority to embrace, as is envisaged by clause (b) of the definition, a wide range of disciplines in the curricula which will be provided. I refer to matters such as economics, sociology, psychology and communications, all of which 1 believe are in the projected syllabuses of the college. I have confidence that these things will happen because I have read the report of the Interim Committee. I have confidence that these things will happen because I know some of the personnel involved, particularly  Mr Mathews,  the Interim Director of the Authority, and I know that from a vast experience of trade union education and training he accepts the importance of the cross fertilisation of ideas between all sections of the community, and so on. 
I must deal just briefly with the sort of concept which  Senator Scott  raised- that there was perhaps some sneaking desire on the part of the Government to establish some sort of isolated intellectual ghetto for trade union officials to which they would be spirited away, indoctrinated by malevolent men and returned to society to bring the capitalist system crashing to the ground. 
-I would have thought that there is no greater risk of that if it is located at Wodonga than there is a risk of people who are located regularly in Canberra being out of touch with the rest of society. The point I was making before I was interrupted was that the suggestion that this Authority and the personnel who are behind it would have anything like that in mind is patronising and, in my respectful view, marginally insulting to the spirit of this legislation. In fact I believe that the exact opposite is likely to happen. 

 Senator Scott said that trade unionists should mix with doctors, lawyers and others in the course of these educational training programs. Let him tell me what doctor or lawyer ever mixes with trade unionists in the course of his training; or what other trained person in an Australian university ever mixes with the vast segment of Australian society in the course of his training. Very few indeed do so. Why trade unionists should be singled out for this particular experience I do not know. In Australia there is very little in the way of other facilities for trade union training. True, there are industrial relations courses in various institutes of advanced education. True, there are part time industrial relations courses in various universities. Those courses are not geared to the sort of objects which this Authority will have. I refer to the provision of short courses, for example, in-training courses and residential courses. By the very nature of the students who will be attending an authority such as this, they will not be geared to the sorts of courses which universities or other institutions could provide. Most of those courses are devoted to producing what are sometimes called 'industrial relations experts'; this is to say, most of the people who attend those courses want to come out of them with a diploma in industrial relations, as if industrial relations were some definable art as distinct from a most complex and difficult area of negotiation. On the other hand, there are numerous opportunities for the sorts of things which  Senator Scott  talked about- meetings between management and unions on a discussion level in the industrial relations societies and in a variety of seminars and so on which are organised by various bodies. 
I want to say one or two words about overseas experience. In the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States trade union training has been proceeding in a much bigger way for a very long time. There the money is provided mostly by the union organisations themselves, and that is the difference. But the union organisations there do not have the obligations which the Conciliation and Arbitration Act casts upon us in Australia. In Sweden there is a highly sophisticated system of trade union training which I believe is reflected in results. I wish to quote briefly from a study of the Swedish trade union education system contained in an article in the 'Journal of Industrial Relations'. The article states: 
A great deal of the undoubted Swedish success in seeking progress through discussion must be ascribed to a healthy respect for education . . . but in fact the emphasis on education is broadly based. The articulateness of trade unionists for example is impressive but no accident. The informed discussion and evolution of policy stem from the large investment in education on both sides at all levels of labour market activity. This is perhaps the fundamental key to Swedish success in moulding a collective bargaining system that is heavily collectivised yet flexible and responsive to new ideas from all levels and sources. Here surely lies the value of Swedish experience. 
I quote that comment simply because it may be a definition of the hopes that we can legitimately hold out for the future of the Trade Union Training Authority in Australia. I accept the amendments; the Government accepts them. We believe that they are sensible and that it is proper for this Parliament to be represented on the Council of the Trade Union Training Authority. 
Indeed, the amendments are the first evidence I have had that there is not a monopoly of political wisdom on this side of the chamber. We accept those amendments and believe that the legislation will be better as a result of their having been made. I commend the Bill to the Senate and I commend to honourable senators opposite the possibility of a constructive and positive approach to what I believe is an exciting and important endeavour which may lead us in the future to look back on the passage of this piece of legislation as a milestone in proceeding towards the sort of situation which has been arrived at in a country such as Sweden in the conduct of industrial relations. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. In view of the artificially engendered heat on the subject of the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and the large amount of mail which has been received by honourable senators, will the Minister inform the Senate about the position of the registered union, the Australian Mutual Provident Society Staff Association, on the establishment of this office? 
I wish to deal with the general principles of this Australian Heritage Commission Bill and not follow my colleague  Senator Durack  into a discursive analysis of various points which arose in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. I think the essential principles are set out in clause 4 of the Bill where the National Estate is defined as follows:   the national estate consists of those places, being components of the natural environment of Australia or the cultural environment of Australia, that have aesthetic, historic, scientific or social significance or other special value for future generations as well as for the present community. 
I do not think there is much difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition in relation to the importance of this Bill.  Senator Durack  dealt at some length with the functions of the proposed Australian Heritage Commission. Indeed, in the closing part of his speech he applauded the Government's initiative in this regard. I did find part of his speech somewhat churlish for this reason: He spoke very much, on behalf of the Opposition, in the tone of somebody who really was just beginning to understand what an idea was all about. 

 -As Senator Durack says, he tried to explain that he understood it 10 years ago, but in trying to explain what he understood 10 years ago he devoted much of his time to telling us that national trusts existed in the various States in those days and that he was interested in some of the issues which they pursued at that time. He said that he knew of other people who were interested, and so on. That was not the point. We all know that what he said is perfectly true. We all know that the national trusts have been active in Australia for a long time, and their activities are to be applauded. But we all know they were starved of funds, that they were singularly unsuccessful in carrying out their activities and that they were crying poverty all the time because of the utter disinterest of government and the utter failure of government to appreciate what they were all about. 
This legislation is part of the broad thrust of the Government's program which has been expressed in many ways- in terms of conservation policy, in terms of a new approach to Australia's national identity, and in terms of preservation in all respects of things that are unique in our landscape, history and culture. It is consistent with the program that the Government has adopted for the arts, which was the subject of some criticism a year or two ago. It is consistent with the National Gallery legislation which will be brought before the Senate soon. It is consistent with a new approach to foreign policy and it is even consistent, although in a much more minor way, with the new system of honours that has been introduced in this country. All of these things are a recognition of the unique nature of this country, of its own identity, and of its growing maturity as a nation. Even in a small way one could refer also to another piece of legislation passed by this Parliament recently, namely, the Glebe Lands Appropriation BUI. The point I make in referring to these things is that none of them happened in Australia at a national level before December 1972, and that is nowhere better recognised than in the report of the Hope Commission itself, where it stated that recognition quite explicitly in these words: 
The Australian Government has inherited a national estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrolled development, economic growth and progress', and the encouragement of private as against public interest in land use, use of waters, and, indeed, in every part ofthe National Estate, was paramount. 
That is what the Government inherited in December 1972. Is it not true that, if one looks back to the years before December 1972 to the Australian national heritage, one finds that the music that one heard was the music of the cash registers of mining companies? The poetry was the poetry of motion on the share market and nowhere else. That was because none of these things was heard about as subjects for national debate, national political debate, in those years, and I have only to remind the Senate of the great voices of those years, the great voices of people like Jock Marshall, Robyn Boyd, Judith Wright and various other people of that kind. They were voices crying in the wilderness in Australia about the very things that this legislation is about. That is why I say that it is important that we recognise that this piece of legislation represents part of the broad thrust of the Government's program and is a great change in attitude towards these problems, because prior to this Government there was a very depressed spirit abroad about these types of problems in Australia, and the cultural symbol of this country was usually considered to be nothing more than the meat pie. 
As I have said,  Senator Durack  has gone to great lengths to say: 'Look, we really thought of this, but we did not do anything about it. We were sort of working on it and that kind of thing, in Western Australia, and it is not the Government's idea.'  His  whole speech reminded me of somebody who had been caught stealing clothes and who said: 'Really, I am only borrowing them'. That is the broad thrust of the Opposition 's approach in this debate. 
The only other point I wanted to make in that regard was that this Government acted very quickly. In May 1973 the Hope Committee was appointed. Last year it produced a magnificent report which has been the subject of much discussion in the Australian community. I want to say a brief word about the personnel of the Interim Committee on the National Estatepeople such as  Mr David  Yencken, a man who as interim  chairman  has shown himself to be a person of great wisdom, experience and enthusiasm in trying to see that future generations of Australians enjoy the heritage which only a few years ago was being swept away by our obsession with growth in terms of growth of the economy, growth of cities and so on; and Judith Wright, who for many years was once a voice crying in the wilderness but who is now a voice of significance in the community on this issue because of this legislation and because ofthe establishment of the Interim Committee. 
I agree with  Senator Durack  that the world will not change overnight because of the passing of this Bill by the Senate. Nothing very dramatic will happen. I believe it is symbolic legislation in a way, in that it is a recognition by the Parliament of a change in community attitudes and in government attitudes to this very important problem. All of us have various views about the significance of our relationship, as members of the human species, with our environment. It is a subject which we do not debate perhaps enough. I believe this legislation is a recognition that our values on this matter have not been subject to the scrutiny which they ought to have received in the past. From now on, with this legislation and the other legislation to which I have referred as a basis, we can proceed in this country with guidelines which will provide perhaps a better environment for future generations of Australians than that which has existed in the past. 
-In the absence of the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Everett,  I seek leave to move a motion to extend the time for the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to report to the Senate on the clauses of the National Compensation Bill 1974. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to a question I asked a fortnight ago about the hospital side of Medibank in Victoria. Is the Minister aware of recent advertisements in the Press and on television in which the Premier of Victoria claims, rather nervously, that his Government has been advised by the Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria that there is no reason other than Australian Government delays, why Victoria should not be in the hospital side of Medibank by 1 July? Has South Australia or Tasmania been caught up in similar delays? Did the Premier of Victoria receive any such advice from the Hospitals and Charities Commission? If so, is that advice correct? Has the Minister now seen today's Press reports that the advertisements by the Victorian Liberal Government are to be withdrawn? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, relates to the resolution of the Senate to establish a judicial committee of inquiry into the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament and to the appropriateness of sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution. The question follows one which the Minister was asked yesterday about delay in the establishment of such a committee. I ask the Minister whether there are special considerations which the Government has taken into account and which have led to the apparent delay, and whether such considerations include the need to avoid any embarrassment to members of the judiciary? 

 -Mr President, I take a point of order in relation to that question. The point of order is that that question is not and cannot be a relevant question. It cannot be a relevant question because the witness has already indicated that he will not answer any questions. That is, he has claimed privilege within the terms of the Minister's letter. With respect, I say that one cannot ask a relevant question of a chair for example, unless one is certifiably insane, because the chair will not answer. By the same token, one cannot ask a relevant question of a person who will not supply an answer and who has indicated that he will not do so because he claims privilege. That is my point of order. 
I rise to support the amendment to the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  At the outset I would like to deal with one or two monumental irrelevancies that have been raised in the course of this debate. We must have heard half a dozen speakers now on the Opposition side refer to a book written in 1972 by  Mr Jim  Spigelman on the subject of secrecy. Of course, it is very interesting to refer to that book; but I would be grateful if any Opposition  speaker  could tell me the relevance of that book to this debate. Whatever one might say about the proposed loan transactions of the Government, is it seriously suggested that  Mr Spigelman  or anybody else concerned with open government suggests that it should extend to negotiations prior to any loan involvements at all actually taking place? Is it seriously suggested that the people of Australia should have been told by anybody that we are seeking, through intermediaries, to find out whether funds are available overseas to be loaned to Australia? If anyone can tell me the relevance of that argument to this debate I would be grateful and better informed. 
The second expression which concerns me and which  Senator Webster  raised again is the repeated reference to the Government's involvement in the loan raising. Nobody on this side of the chamber would seriously contest the view that the Government is involved. Of course the Government is the primary party involved in the loan raising issue. To mention this question of Government involvement as if the Government was some appendage to somebody else who had actually been involved in loan raising activities is again an irrelevance and quite misleading in the context of this debate. The essential question with which we are concerned and with which we have been concerned in the last two or three days in the Senate is whether public servants who are employees of the Crown can claim privilege before the Senate against disclosing professional advice and other material which they may have made available to the Government. The principle to which I wish to refer at a later stage is that the public servants fall within a class who ought to be protected from making such disclosures simply in the interests of government itself; that is to say, in order that they may give advice and be involved in policy formulation and the like in an atmosphere of candour and frankness which will not prejudice them at a later stage. All these issues of course have been raised to distract attention from the very real issue of this debate. 
Many speakers at various stages have been asking: What is it really all about? If one reads the Senate  Hansard  of Wednesday last week one will find what it is all about in  Senator Withers'  speech when he introduced the first motion, because he concluded that speech with the following words: 'Now we embark on the great adventure'. That is what  Senator Withers  said last week. That is what it is all about. The words 'now we embark upon the great adventure' display  Senator Withers'  characteristic originality of* expression which makes him one of the greats of Australian politics! When did we previously hear the expression 'now we embark upon the great adventure'? We heard it at the time of the last great adventure in 1974 when the Opposition in this place threatened to refuse supply to the 
Government. That of course is what the Opposition is all about. In between periods of vast tedium and periods when it totally fails to set itself up as a credible alternative government the Opposition enters periods of great adventures to break that tedium on behalf of all. 
The expression 'embark upon a great adventure' suggests two things. It suggests that we are embarking upon something such as  Penelope the Platypus  or  The Adventures of the Magic Pudding &amp;  great adventure indeed! We have heard that expression on two occasions from  Senator Withers.  Yesterday and the day before we were subjected to a sort of boring tutorial from former practitioners in the courts of petty sessions and the law relating to this matter. We heard the Opposition's equivalent of the British Law Lords, now out of practice, on the question of the law involved in this matter. I am very surprised that the Opposition embarked on that exercise because I would have thought that the law, whether it be the principle of the common law or the practice of the House of Commons and the practice of this Parliament, is really pretty clear. 
The practice of the House of Commons, which dates back at least to 1858 in the  Cagliari  case, established quite clearly that it was a settled practice that neither the opinions of law officers nor the papers upon which they are based should be produced to the House or requested by the House. I accept the line of authorities which extends from that view in the  Cagliari  case in 1 858 down to the opinion of  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott  which was given in 1 972. 1 accept the line of authorities as being greater than the line of authorities which was cited by Opposition senators as to the view expressed some years ago by a committee of this Senate which was composed of Labor senators.  Senator Wriedt  in the House today has referred to that matter. 
Let me refer to one or two other matters which I believe illustrate the principle. I refer first of all to the  Grosvenor Hotel  case and the judgment of Salmon, L. J. This was a case in which the question was whether Crown documents of the kind we sought in the Senate yesterday could be produced in a court. Admittedly the courts have changed their view about this to a degree in recent years, but the essential principle remains the same. It is the principle which the Government asserted yesterday. The principle was expressed by Salmon, L. J., in these words: 
It is well settled that, in the public interest, such documents should be written with the utmost candour and freedom of expression, that such candour and freedom of expression might be impaired if such documents could be ordered to be produced in an action, and that accordingly their production would be so much to the prejudice of the public interest, that, however pertinent they might be to the issues in an action, they ought not to be produced. 
That is the principle which has flowed through the common law and which still exists in the common law except that the courts now say, as a result of the decision in  Conway's  case, that the court may from time to time determine that question itself. But that has never been said in relation to the practice in the House of Commons and it has never been said prior to yesterday in relation to the practice of this Parliament in Australia. That is why I think Government senators have been absolutely accurate in saying that yesterday was a unique proceeding in the life of this Parliament. 
The line of authorities to which I have referred seems to be the essential principle which the Government relied on yesterday. It is probably, as it has been pointed out, nowhere better stated than in that summary of views of  Mr Ellicott  and  Senator Greenwood,  particularly in paragraph 147 of the document which they prepared. They themselves, after examining all the relevant material, came down with the conclusion in paragraph 147. It has been read to the Senate but I shall read it again. 
Time and time again  Senator Greenwood  and people like yourself have been claiming that this should be put in the context of the whole article. What sticks in your throat and in the throats of all members of the Opposition- you could put this in a marshmallow and you still could not swallow it- is that  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott  said quite clearly, as a summation of their view, in paragraph 147: 
On this matter it is not easy to express a view which will satisfy the varying points of view on the question of the desirability of making executive information available. However, against the background of a system which is based on party Government and the responsibility of Ministers to Parliament, we think the preferable course is to continue the practice of treating the Minister's certificate as conclusive. 
That is what the Government did yesterday- 
We think the preferable course is to continue the practice of treating the Minister's certificate as conclusive. If a House thought that a Minister was improperly exercising his power to grant a certificate it could, of course, withdraw its confidence in him. 
That is the simple point, basically, of distinction between the attitude of the courts, as expressed in  Conway's  case and the attitude in relation to parliamentary procedures as practised in the Commons and as expressed in that article written by  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott. 
Finally, there is of course the authority of the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, in the statement which was quoted in the Prime Minister's letter to the  President  of the Senate on this very subject matter. The former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, made his view quite clear in that matter which was quoted in the letter to the  President.  What a tragedy for the Liberal Party that it does not sometimes hearken to the great voice from the distant past of  Sir Robert  Menzies, because on these matters he had about him a sort of essential grandeur which enabled him to conceal the essential shoddiness of the Liberal Party. That grandeur is now unfortunately missing. On 2 occasions that voice from the past has spoken in vain- a voice of essential principle and genuine liberalism on these constitutional issues- both in 1974 and again in relation to the question now before the Senate. Instead of that essential grandeur, that voice of true democratic liberalism and the view of a great constitutional lawyer, we get the sort of remarks which were made by  Senator Greenwood  in this chamber and on television about conspiracies, criminality and all the things of that kind which exist in the mind of that senator. Of course, there are 2 views on conspiracy. There is the strict legal view and the view which  Senator Greenwood  has which might be expressed in these terms: Wherever 2 Labor men are gathered together there must be a conspiracy. 
-Maybe against each other. We accept the realities of political life. We hope that  Senator Hall  does too. The point is that that has been  Senator Greenwood's  view as expressed in various ways in this chamber. The Cabinet is a conspiracy of twenty-seven. The Government senators are a conspiracy of twentyseven. 
-That may be  Senator Missen  's view. The point I am seeking to make is that familiarity with  Senator Greenwood's  views breeds contempt.  His  view of conspiracy is an extraordinary one indeed. What I find most offensive about this sort of view is the suggestion that the Government in some way has set about in criminality and conspiracy to deceive the Australian people. I find it offensive as a view coming from somebody like  Senator Greenwood  who participated in the greatest government deception of the Australian people of all time- the deception on the decision to enter the Vietnam war. 
There is documented evidence now about the degree of that deception. All of us are fully aware of that evidence. If ever there was deceit of the Australian people, if ever there was an attempt to conspire, it was by the Liberal Party Government in relation to our entry into the Vietnam war. That is consistent with a long and shabby record in government which involved a variety of attempts of this kind about which I would not use the words 'criminality' or 'conspiracy'. Perhaps 'dirty tricks' would be a more appropriate appellation. I want to come to the question of the loans issue. 

 - Senator Missen does not know yet whether it is good. He should listen for a minute and tell me afterwards. I was in England at the time that the first intelligence on these loans problems reached me. The English Press, with its traditional subtlety, if one may use that term, or its traditional care for reportage, treated the whole question somewhat differently from the way it has been treated by either the noisy Opposition in Australia or certain sections of the Australian Press. For example, it was written about in this general tone: Perhaps the way the Australian Government had gone about things was a little unusual. I think that is probably a fair comment. Perhaps it was a little unusual, even irregular, but times are different now. The centres of great borrowings are no longer London or New York. Perhaps they are somewhere else. If the Australian cricket team had played only a little more irregularly in its Prudential Cup match against the West Indies, in the same way that these loan borrowings are said to be irregular, Australia may have won. That was the general perspective in which the British Press put this issue. 
Yes. While I was there one paper had an article which referred to the leaks which flood Australian politics. I thought that was a very good caption. The authors put these issues in a little more subtle perspective than anybody from the other side I have heard speak in this debate has been able to do. I tried to telephone home to find out a little more about this but the lines seemed to be very busy. I assumed they were occupied by Phillip Lynch, Graham Perkin and others sending good money after bad, if I might coin a phrase, in trying to gather up some more documents for publication or presentation to the Senate. 
-What would  Senator Martin  like to know about the loans? That has been a question that has been in my mind for a long time. What would the  Senator really  like to know about the loans which she regards as tremendously important? I just mention those matters because I think we should try to get them into a little better perspective than we have so far. The real perspective is that the Liberal Party is still intensely irritated by not being in government. There has been a sullen resentment about that over a period of time, which from time to time erupts into wage- erupts into rage - 
Yes, wages of sin, as  Senator Primmer  points out. The rage manifests itself in instances like the rage at the acceptance of the appointment by our present Ambassador to Ireland, a former most honourable senator. There was rage about that leading to the refusal of Supply, an action which was once described in the Liberal Party as a denial of popular democracy. Now again in  1975,  in the winter of their discontent, the Liberals are again enraged by the fact that they are not in government and that certain information which is appropriately available to government was refused them yesterday, for example, in the proceedings of this chamber. I think it is very important that when considering this matter people should distinguish between the allegations and the innuendoes that have been made. One was made by  Senator Hall  in this chamber this morning about the Greek witness which apparently aroused some resentment. 
-We will be able to ask the witness about that on Tuesday. I think it is very important that we should distinguish between the innuendoes, the documents which were splattered all over the newspapers, full of sound and fury signifying nothing, and the noise which we have received from the Opposition in the course of this debate- a sort of desire for corroborative detail for a pretty unconvincing story on the material which it has been able to put to the Senate. For those reasons I support the amendment and I oppose the motion. 
I think in referring to the motion moved by  Senator Withers  I should perhaps make one other comment. If the Opposition thinks that it is important in the interests of government- having had a principle established by  Mr Ellicott  and  Senator Greenwood  and argued for by them, having had a position established by the witnesses yesterday, and having had the instructions from the Ministers- that we again go through this exercise on the Privileges Committee, as  Senator Wriedt  has indicated we are quite prepared to do so. Of course we are concerned- we must be concerned- that at some stage in  1975,  as was not recognised in  1974,  the Government might be able to get on with some reasonably important matters and the Opposition might then have to deal with reasonably important matters such as the very serious difficulties which face this country in respect of inflation and the like, and the implementation of various policies of the Government. The Government urges that the Privileges Committee should not be turned into a sort of  Blue Hills  of inquisitorial endeavour and that it should deal with the matter and report back to the Senate as quickly as possible. 
In moving the amendment for deletion of the first paragraph of the motion,  Senator Wriedt  pointed out the Government's reasons for opposing that paragraph. The Government has consistently opposed a royal commission into this matter, and of course it consistently opposes the view that there is a massive cover-up of the Government's involvement in the attempted raising of overseas loans. I hope that as time goes by and honourable senators like  Senator Steele  Hall are able to deliberate on the matter at greater length they will see that there is a distinction between taking a position on a question of the privilege of Crown servants and dealing with this particular question of the loans. I do not regard the Government's handling of the loan issue as an example of the highest administrative competence, if I might put it in those terms, but I think it is quite a distinct matter from the question which the Senate debated yesterday. For those reasons I support the amendment and oppose the remainder of the motion. 
I rise on a point of order,  Mr President.  This is about the fifth question of this kind. The witness cannot answer a question as to the state of mind -  (Honourable senators interjecting) 
If Opposition senators are concerned about this they can direct questions through their members in the House of Representatives to the Minister concerned. But this witness cannot be expected to answer a question about the state of mind of the Cabinet. It is not a proper question in my submission. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, how you expect me to know? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, no. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I will ask your permission to refer to my counsel, please. 
-As I understand it, the Senate is not debating the divine of other qualities of socialism but the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation to carry on the business of insurance in Australia. I want to refer to the essential features of the Bill because little of that has been done in the course of the speeches from Opposition spokesman. The corporation is to be managed by a board and it will be subject to the Insurance Act and the Life Insurance Act. It is required by clause 34, as  Senator Everett  pointed out in the course of his speech, to act in accordance with sound commercial principles and it is guaranteed by the Australian Government. A further important clause, clause 14, provides for the board of the corporation in certain circumstances to enter into special classes of insurance in the national interest. There has been some speculation as to what might be contemplated in this direction. I will refer later in my speech to some of the things which may be contemplated under the provisions of that clause and where the inadequacies of the insurance industry in Australia at present have become quite manifest. Indeed, they have become manifest not only on the basis of performance in regard to what the insurance companies have undertaken to do in the past but also manifest on the basis of comparison with the classes of insurance risk which have been covered in other countries. 
I mention these essential features of the legislation at the beginning because it is important that people should be clear on what this is all about. I have referred to these essential features of the Bill because this and nothing more is what is involved. I think that it is necessary to do that because of the quite hysterical reaction and misrepresentation of this legislation by Opposition vested interests, whether they be in the Senate chamber or in the outside insurance industry. That hysterical opposition has rivalled that which was engendered in relation to Medibank, which is now alive and well and serving the Australian people. I know that  Senator Sheil  has a special concern about this aspect. He went out of his way to mention it. But I think that the majority of the Australian people are satisfied with what Medibank is doing for them and, except in those States where there has been obstruction to the program, it has been saving considerable amounts of money each week in respect of the services it offers to the people. 
Of course, much of this hysteria to which I have referred has been engendered by the conservative management of the insurance industry which is unable in many respects to cope with its own problems. It is unable to cope with problems because it has not adapted, as the insurance industry in other countries has tried to do, to the challenges that it faces in the 1970s. Let me give some examples of the types of hysteria which have been engendered in opposition to this Bill, and the source of that activity. I refer first of all to an Australian Mutual Provident Society circular of 1 4 March 1 975 which was sent to all managers of that company together with advertisements for a program titled 'Mutual is our Middle Name', a sales program. That circular asked managers to engender opposition to the proposed Government legislation. In the course of describing what should be done the circular called for confidentiality and the handling of this matter in a fashion- and I quote- 'less likely to incur charges of political involvement'. On 24 April of this year the Life Officers Association sent a letter to all field staff suggesting that they should lobby members of Parliament. They seem to have had some success insofar as the Opposition is concerned, although I understand the Opposition attitude to be in conflict with a view expressed by the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  shortly after his election. That circular even enclosed a draft letter which it was suggested be sent to members of Parliament. 
On 30 May this year the Transport and General Mutual Life Society Ltd sent a circular to all officers advertising 'a mass meeting' at the Dallas Brooks Hall in Melbourne. I shall quote from that circular to indicate the source of much of this opposition. The second last paragraph reads: 

 Mr Barnett has stressed that this is a completely independent group of insurance workers, and management are not in any way associated with the organisation of this function. However, the Sub-Committee has promised its discreet full co-operation to ensure that both protest meetings will have maximum attendances. Indeed, this is essential to the success of these events. 
It is signed by the convenor for the T and G Mutual Life Society Ltd. That is the sort of activity to which members of Parliament and indeed anybody who has sought to engage in a rational discussion of this question have been subjected in the last few months. I think we should try to avoid that hysteria in the course of this debate and look at the issues which are involved. That is why I have referred specifically to particular provisions of the legislation. 
It is true, of course, that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be in competition with private enterprise insurance and that, added to the protests and the lobbying to which I have reffered is the basic source of the opposition on the other side of the Senate to this legislation. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be in competition with private enterprise insurance. Just as State government insurance offices are in competition with private enterprise insurance, the New Zealand Insurance Corporation is in competition with private enterprise insurance, the Commonwealth Bank is in competition with private trading banks, Trans-Australia Airlines is in competition with Ansett Airlines of Australia and so on, the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be in competition with private enterprise insurance. None of the endeavours to which I have referred has justified the doomsday prophecies which were uttered by mealymouthed conservative spokesmen for free enterprise when the pieces of legislation establishing those enterprises were introduced. 
One must ask what the Opposition objects to about competition? What does the Oppposition understand by the notion of competition? I sought some guidance from the Liberal Party platform about what the Liberal Party understands by the notion of competition. I read it to the Senate: 
Liberals believe competitive free enterprise is the economic system which most effectively ensures that individuals can exercise freedom of choice and initiative. Because free enterprise responds to the wishes of the consumer, it best provides the quality and variety of goods and services desired by the individuals who comprise the community. Liberals also recognise that the free enterprise system can achieve these goals only where it accepts full social responsibility and where the conditions exist for a free exercise of choice. These conditions include honest competition, a wider knowledge of products on the part of the consumer, and the protection of the consumer against oppressive and overbearing sales techniques. 
That is what the Liberal Party believes about free competition, the inequities of which we have heard in the course of this debate. Let us look at the insurance industry in the light of the Liberal Party criteria. I have said that this Corporation will compete with private industry. Are there any serious spokesmen on the Opposition side who will get up in the Senate and, apart from bleating platitudes about the virtues of competition without reference to their own platform, say that the insurance industry reflects full social responsibility? Does it reflect full social responsibility in its investment policy which has provided for numerous office blocks in the cities of Melbourne and Sydney which are half empty but has deprived the housing market of necessary funds? 
Is that full social responsibility? Does the Opposition believe - 
It does not matter by whom they are tenanted,  Senator. Will Senator Carrick  get up and expound the virtues of honest competition in relation to the insurance industry? Will he get up and say that the consumer is given the full benefit of a wide knowledge of range of products available by the insurance industry? Has he not heard of the small print in insurance policies? Has he not had constituents come to him and complain about the small print in insurance policies? Do those consumers have a wide knowledge of the various products available to them? Will  Senator Carrick  or any other Liberal senator get up and talk about the importance that the Liberal Party attaches to the protection of the consumer against oppressive and overbearing sales techniques? They may be able to do so in the Senate, but let them say to any policy-holder in Australia that the insurance industry is free from oppressive and overbearing sales techniques and they will be laughed out of the room. 
I ask members of the Opposition to consider fully the criteria which they apply to the question whether competition is free and fair or not. I ask them to apply their own criteria to the efficiency of the insurance industry and to ask themselves whether the competition is real in this industry and whether the competition ought to be encouraged or not. Is it giving the best possible service to the Austraiian consumer or is it afraid of further competition? I endeavour to answer these rhetorical questions on efficiency and the validity of competition and so on by quoting from some of the industry's spokesmen. First of all I quote from the  Insurance and Banking Record  of this year. Reference is made to a letter by  Mr D.  Green of Hartford-Monarch Insurance. He said: 
Sensible underwriting is the name of the game with more emphasis put on underwriting profits and less on cash flow for investment purposes. 
We have heard a lot about cash flow for investment purposes in this debate. This view about what the name of the game is comes from an insurance industry expert. Let me refer to some other experts. I am quoting from articles in the same journal. The first is by  Dr W.  Diehl  Deputy  General Manager of the Swiss Reinsurance Company. He said: 
I would refer you to a - 
-I am talking,  Senator, however  unpalatable it must be, about whether the insurance industry delivers to the consumer, which is of such concern to the Liberal Party.  Dr Diehl  stated: 
I would refer you to a survey conducted by  Fortune  magazine in October 1973, covering the views of 500 major U.S. firms on 'How major industrial corporations view property and liability insurers'. Among other things, it shows that a large percentage of the companies surveyed expect more loss prevention service, higher deductibles and more flexibility than they are getting from their insurers. 
That was said in the context of an analysis of the Australian insurance industry. Then in October 1974 in an article in the same journal  Mr Gamble,  the  President  of the Australian Insurance Institute, referring to the standard of management in the insurance industry, stated: 
In this context we will need more than ever highly qualified human resources, both practically and academically. I see a risk of the disappearance of chief executives drawn from the ranks in favour of professional managers unless we get the balance of insurance men with broad experience in finance, current affairs, and human behaviour to take their place as leaders in the industry in the immediate future. 
What he was putting clearly there was simply that the industry has not responded to the challenges of the present. I refer also to a comment by  Mr J.  A. Neave, General Manager of the Mercantile and General Reinsurance Company Ltd, who said this: 
One may perhaps be forgiven for wondering sometimes if insurers have not become so engrossed in the day-to-day business of marketing that the selling of their policies may be compared to the retailing of shoes or groceries, and wondering also if things have not reached a point at which so much emphasis is given to the preparation of the product and to its marketing that the science of underwriting, the essential background to the business and the service it gives, has not been relegated to a position of secondary importance. 
Those are comments from an insurance industry journal. They are comments from experts in the insurance industry who are obviously concerned that the industry is not meeting the challenge of the 1970s. They hardly indicate a great degree of satisfaction with the state of the industry, and that is not surprising because the industry has simply failed to adapt. The fact is, of course, that the industry is obsessed- as one imagines  Senator Cotton  is, from some of the comments he has made- by the idea of cash flow for investment, which is contrary to the views of the experts to whom I have referred. Above all, the industry is concerned about this at a time when it is also engaged, for that reason, in opting out of many areas of important social responsibility. 
The insurance industry by its public propaganda rejects the concept of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, while at the same time it becomes more and more selective in the risks it is prepared to undertake. If that process goes on, some sections of the population will find it impossible within the next few years to get adequate cover for many risks. I am not talking off the top of my head when I say that the insurance industry is contracting out of many areas of its social responsibility. As an example of what I mean, I quote from a circular to managers of the Eagle Insurance Company, one of the top 10 companies in Australia, relating to the question of public liability insurance. That circular, which was sent to all branches on 2 May 1975 states: 
Although Public Liability insurance was for many years one of the profitable portfolios for insurers, it becomes necessary today when liabilities losses are mounting, to select our acceptances more carefully than ever before and ensure that each risk is adequately rated if the portfolio is to return to serving the Company profitably. 
A review of classifications has been carried out and the new expanded Decline List is attached for immediate use. Where the Public Liability is declined it will of course be necessary to decline any associated Products Liability insurance at the same time. 
The circular goes on: 
As the Decline List is mandatory, under no circumstances may branches make acceptances or offer renewals for any listed occupations. 
The circular then goes on to set out a draft letter to be sent to clients which states: 
Dear 
Following a review of our Public Liability insurance portfolio, it has become necessary for us to reconsider our existing commitments in certain classes of risk, the collective experience of which has caused difficulties for us. 
The letter then goes on to state that the company will have to cancel the policy accordingly. Now, the decline list which is attached to that circular, the list of business out of which that insurance group is opting, is really quite enormous in the public risk area. It covers- I am just picking out a few- boot and shoe factories, boat-builders, building demolishers chemists and druggists, cinemas, electricity and power suppliers, electrical appliance manufacturers, plastics goods manufacturers, polish factories, printers ink factories, pop concerts in enclosed halls, porcelain and pottery manufacturers, produce merchants, secondhand dealers, sewerage and water supply authorities. Those are just a few examples taken from that company's decline list. In those areas the company is now declining to underwrite public risk insurance. 
The point about competition that was being debated earlier is an interesting one because that company can scarcely be said, on the basis of that document, to be providing a competitive service in the interests of the Australian consumer. When honourable senators opposite talk with great emphasis about the effects of this legislation upon the private sector, they might pause for a moment to think about how the manufacturers of pottery, how the managers of the various factories referred to in that document, how all those industries in the private sector feel about the fact that they cannot now get public risk insurance from that company, and indeed from many of that company's competitors. That is something which I should have thought would concern the private sector. Of course, it concerns the private sector because it wants to be able to receive insurance and it wants to be able to receive it from one of the 47 competing companies which are currently engaged in the industry. 
The reason for refusing it is set out at the beginning of the document I read. It is becoming unprofitable, and for that reason they decline. That is competition. What I am talking about is the delivery to the consumer. I am not talking about the profitability of that particular company, I am talking about whether the insurance industry is delivering to the consumer. That is the basis of the argument which has been raised on the other side of the chamber. There is no need for the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, it is being said, because the industry can cope with all of the business; there are already so many competing companies that there should not be another competitor. That is why I referred to the platform of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's Liberal Party, which deals with the question of what are the right criteria for private enterprise competition. One of those criteria is the public good and delivery to the consumer. They are both in your platform, senator. 
-That may be the situation, but if this legislation is passed the manufacturers may be able to get it from the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. There is one other matter I wanted to mention. It is possible that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will offer the competition that is so much needed in those areas of declining risk undertaking in the private industries to which I have referred. Under clause 1 4 of the Bill the Corporation can offer insurance in other areas of national importance which the Minister, in conjunction with the Board of the Corporation, considers it desirable for the Corporation to enter into on a commercial basis. 

 -As Senator Wright has asked me for an instance of such, I will give him one. The instance to which I refer, of course, is crop insurance. Crops are things that farmers grow. Crop insurance is well known in the United States of America where competition apparently produces the goods a little more satisfactorily. It is well known in many other countries. Let us listen to what the Green Paper on Rural Policy in Australia stated about crop insurance in Australia. It referred to the main type of crop insurance in Australia. 
If  Senator Wright  would just listen for a moment, instead of giving vent to such expressions and grunting away about superphosphate or natural manure or whatever he is talking about, he would hear what the Green Paper on Rural Policy in Australia states. It states that generally speaking all types of crop insurance are not available in Australia. It refers to the fact that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation has sought this and then it states in a subsequent paragraph: 
On the other hand all-risk crop insurance is available in the United States, Canada, South Africa, Japan, Sweden, Israel and a number of other countries. In some countries such as Sweden and Japan crop insurance is compulsory: in others including the United States and Canada it is voluntary. In most cases the administrative costs of such schemes are subsidised by the government. 
I make that point because it seems that the competitive insurance industry in those other countries can cater for these sorts of things. Apparently it has never been envisaged that the insurance industry in Australia can cater for these sorts of things profitably. I refer  Senator Wright  to the relevant sections of the Green Paper, which are paragraphs 4.75 to 4.92. If  Senator Wright  likes to read those sections of the Green Paper on Rural Policy in Australia he will find the references I have made. The point I am making is that the insurance industry in Australia not only is not undertaking areas of risk which are undertaken in other countries- and has never done so- but also is contracting out of the area in which traditionally it has assumed some degree of responsibility. 

 Senator Wright and others know the attitude of the insurance industry on matters such as the national compensation scheme. The alternative suggested by the private industry to that scheme simply involved the concept of the insurance industry taking the cream and the national government picking up the tab for the unpalatable or less profitable section of compensation and accident insurance. I am amazed at the Opposition's attitude to this legislation, firstly, because I think it is contrary to the expressed view of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  after he assumed power and, secondly, because I have read to the Opposition the Liberal Party platform on the desirable criteria for competition in any industry. Not one member of the Opposition will talk about those criteria and the application of them to the insurance industry, because they cannot do so. They know that that is perfectly true. 
The argument about competition is no longer valid if one examines the position of the insurance industry in Australia. It is not valid because the industry is not competing in its traditional areas and is not prepared to compete in new areas. If it is not prepared to compete and the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is prepared to compete, then the Corporation ought to be given the chance to do so. That is all that this legislation is about- giving the Australian Government Insurance Corporation the chance to offer the benefit of the Corporation to the consumer in Australia, to the small policy holder, to those who want to cover risks which the private industry does not cover and to those who may be in areas where national disaster problems are involved. In all those areas in which the average Australian might benefit from a degree of healthy competition which the Corporation can offer, it is clear that the Corporation should be given a chance. That is all the Government is asking. In years gone by there have been many criticisms of proposals by this and other Labor governments. We do not hear much about them now. I appeal strongly to the Opposition, presumably in vain, to consider that that is really what the legislation is about. 
It is really demeaning for the Opposition to follow the rather hysterical and misleading criticisms which have been made of this legislation by vested interests in the community. I refer particularly to the criticism that it is a measure which is designed to socialise the industry a view which I have seen expressed publicly by  Senator Webster,  who I understand has taken some interest in this subject. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I believe that it is in the interests of the average Australian that the full benefits of competition should be made available in this industry and that he should have a right to choose one of the existing private companies, which are gradually retracting their responsibilities, or the Australian Government Insurance Corporation as the body with which he seeks risk coverage. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition in Perth last week to the effect that the Opposition, if elected, would attempt to end discrimination in employment? Is it a fact that a national policy to eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation was enunciated for the first time by the then Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron,  in a statement to Parliament on 22 May 1973? Is it also a fact that the Australian Government has since been active in pursuing that policy, that committees on discrimination in employment and occupation have been set up at the State and national levels and that the first annual report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation was tabled in this Parliament on 5 March 1975? 
-I begin my speech by congratulating  Senator Webster  on his new payroll bonus, which I think is a unique answer to the problems of payroll taxes in the past. I hope that he will advise us in due course whether it is the official policy of the National Country Party of Australia. The other matter about which I wish to comment in relation to the speech of  Senator Webster  relates simply to the attention that he drew to the dangers of being infected by the 'English disease'. In the course of my speech I want to draw attention to the different attitudes adopted by the Opposition party in Great Britain towards dealing with the English disease' and the attitude that the Opposition in the House of Representatives and the Senate are adopting to this Budget. 
We are today debating what is a quite historic Budget because of its radical reform of the personal tax structure. It is the most sweeping reform in Australia's budget history and the first reform of the tax system contemplated by any government in the last 20 years. The Budget introduces a tax system that is simpler, fairer and more efficient than the existing system. It is simpler because it substitutes the complex concessional deductions that are inequitable because they favour the higher paid earners with a system of direct rebates. It is fairer because it redistributes the burden of taxation away from those who are least able to afford to carry it. It is more efficient because it allows for a more accurate calculation to be made of the P.A.Y.E. deductions, thereby eliminating the existing system of over-deduction and the consequential necessity for a refund to be made by the government at the end of the tax year. For those matters alone I say that it is an historic Budget. 
The overwhelming strategy of the Budget is to combat inflation, to restore confidence to the private sector, to maintain the essential aspects of the Government's program in education, urban development, health and social welfare and to redistribute the burden of taxation. None of those things is easy to do at this time, either in Australia or elsewhere. For that reason the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has accompanied the Budget by a call for restraint in all sections of the community and a joint effort to combat inflation. That call is based on a frank recognition of the fact that the aspirations of the Australian people have, over a number of years, outrun the possibilities of fulfilment of those aspirations in an economic sense. The Budget has tried to take a middle way to achieve the objectives to which I have referred. The course that has been adopted, though fraught with difficulty, has been accepted as a challenge by the Government. There are risks involved. The Treasurer himself put the position in this way: 
The course charted has its risks and the possibility of temporary reverses cannot be overlooked. 
Any realist will agree with that assessment. I emphasise the aspect of restraint because the psychology of the whole matter in the present Australian economic context is important. 
One has reason to query whether the days of the lucky country are any longer with us, either in this country or in a similar situation overseas, and whether we will be able to continue to go for the sort of soft options that we have been able to take in the past. That is a problem which exists overseas as well. In Great Britain harsh measures have had to be taken to combat inflation and unemployment. It is interesting to note the reaction of the Conservative Opposition in Britain to the harsh measures that the Government there had to take last week. The reaction of the Conservative Party in Great Britain was to put out a strong statement in support of the program announced by the Prime Minister to try to combat inflation and unemployment, which both exist at high levels in Great Britain. The statement made by the Acting Leader of the Conservative Party was simply this: 
Anyone from any quarter who seeks by any methods to break the Government's counter inflation policy will receive neither comfort nor encouragement from the Conservative Party. 
That is a fairly strong statement of support for the Government which was adopted by the Conservative Party in Great Britain. No such statements have been forthcoming from any Opposition leader in Australia. No such statements have been forthcoming in relation to wage indexation and the Government's policy, as enunciated in the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in relation to wage indexation. No such statements have been forthcoming because the Conservative parties in Australia have not made up their mind on the subject. When wage indexation was first suggested by the Government it was opposed by the employers and the State governments. Last week the Liberal State governments were falling over themselves in the Arbitration Commission to support the continuation of indexation. A slow process of change takes place within the Conservative parties in Australia compared with their counterpart in Great Britain. There is a slow recognition of the realities of the situation and the need to deal with them. Compared with the statement of the Conservative Party in Great Britain that it would support in every respect the Government's fight against inflation we have had here today, and it is a shocking commentary upon Australian politics,  Senator Withers,  who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, directing his main attack on the Budget to the price of beer. That is the difference between conservatism in Great Britain and conservatism, or what runs for it, in Australia. That is the burden of the attack which has been levelled at the Budget. 
The reaction of the Opposition Parties in Australia to the Government's proposals contained in this Budget has been totally deplorable. Before the Budget was introduced the Government had the benefit of advice obtained from a great variety of sources. Commentators were prepared to tell the Government what it ought to do. Industry was prepared to tell the Government what it ought to do. Academic economists were likewise prepared to tell the Government what it ought to do. Of course, there was also the benefit of advice from the Liberal Party of Australia itself. For a long period of time the Government has received the benefit of that advice from the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives and, of course, Opposition spokesmen here in the Senate. 
-I will be coming to that in a moment.  Senator Missen  should restrain his enthusiasm and he may be able to avoid embarrassment in a minute or two. That advice has been tendered over a number of months. I will refer to it briefly in the next few minutes. The Government was told by a variety of sources that it ought to cut the rate of expansion of government expenditure. That has been done. The rate of government expenditure has been cut by half- from 46 per cent to 23 per cent. The Government was told by numerous spokesmenOpposition and otherwise- that it ought to define certain parameters for the size of the deficit. That has been done. The Budget falls within the projected parameters of all the experts. The Government was told that it ought to reform the tax scale. It did so in a way which was quite unexpected, one suspects, by the Opposition. It was told to reform the tax scale in order that it would reduce wage pressure and put more money in the taxpayers' pockets as a basis for the expansion of the private sector of the economy. That has been done. There may be quibbles about the way it has been done, and that is a legitimate area for argument, but the fact is that it has been done. 
The Budget was prepared with all these parameters in mind, but within one hour of the conclusion of the Treasurer's Budget Speech the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  appeared on television saying that this Budget will not give confidence to the private sector. One might be pardoned for asking how he knew within an hour of the Budget being announced. One might be pardoned for asking that question. Is it that the Leader of the Opposition knew one hour after the Budget Speech that the Budget would not restore confidence to the private sector, or is it a fact that he was hoping, for political reasons, it would not restore confidence to the private sector? That is the important question which people ought to be asking themselves. 
-Three weeks ago the same Leader of the Opposition, who  Senator Missen  apparently now espouses, was talking about the need to put money back into the pockets of ordinary people. That was only 3 weeks ago. We were painted a picture of the average Australian as a sort of squirrel who was trying to gather all his nuts together and to store them for a rainy day. The Government was advised about that by the Leader of the Opposition. When the Government did that in its Budget by means of the tax alterations the Budget was described by the same Leader of the Opposition as 'a massive incentive to be spendthrift'. The  Australian Financial Review,  on the other hand, commented on  Mr Fraser  's comments in these terms:   . . Shifting the taxation burden away from the married couple with young school-age family to young single taxpayers and affluent mature taxpayers who are exploiting tax avoidance techniques. 
That is not 'a massive incentive to be spendthrift', to use again  Mr Fraser  's words. Since then  Mr Fraser  has said that the Budget penalises those who save through life or superannuation policies and who want to provide a different kind of education for their children. That is what he said very shortly after the Budget Speech and again in different terms in his speech last night. The economics writer for the  National Times  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  put the same thing in these terms: 
The Budget does not penalise those who save through life or superannuation policies. It merely removes a socially unjustified and economically costly privilege they formerly enjoyed at the expense of their fellow citizens. 
When that writer says that it removes a privilege it is worthwhile noting that it removes a uniquely Australian privilege because the same privilege of concessional allowances for life policies has not existed in European countries and certainly not in Great Britain. It is a uniquely Australian privilege which has been handed out to the life assurance industry over many years, the same industry which Opposition senators went in to bat for only three or four days ago and to defend on the grounds of its apparent efficiency. That is the sort of level of comment that we have had from Opposition spokesmen about what the Budget ought to include before it was brought down and about what it did include when it was brought down. And last night we had a number of specific proposals which illustrate some of the fulfilment of the Opposition view. For example we were told that the Liberal Party in government would immediately implement the Mathews Committee proposals on stock valuations of companies.  Mr Fraser  said a number of times: 'We wil not tell you what we are going to do in government because we will need to get advice. We will need to find out from the Government experts what we ought to do'. But he is prepared to make this commitment of what they would do in government. 
It is quite clear in  Mr Fraser  's speech what that statement is. The Liberal Party would implement the proposals of the Mathews Committee on stock valuations. The other statement has been made in various guises on numerous occasions. In any event, to come back to the point, if his Party gained government he would see fairly quickly, he would discover fairly quickly, that there are very grave difficulties about implementing the proposals of the Mathews Committee on stock valuations. It may even be said that those proposals in the absence of very stringent and difficult administrative procedures would amount to a licence to the dishonest to swindle the government, whichever complexion it may have. So there are problems about some of these suggestions which are so benignly thrown away by the Leader of the Opposition in commenting on the Government's Budget. 
The next thing promised last night was that the Australian Legal Aid Office would be abolished. The Legal Aid Office has dealt with 130 000 people in Australia since it came into existence. It is dealing with Australian people at the rate of 10 000 a month, people who come to it in search of advice about the numerous problems which ordinary citizens in this community have, people who have not been in the habit of going to see solicitors about those problems, for a variety of reasons. Every Opposition senator knows that the Australian Legal Aid Office, if it has done nothing else, has demonstrated a massive area of neglect in Australian society which no State government and no private lawyer has been capable of dealing with. That Office would be abolished under a government led by  Mr Fraser. 
We are told, on the other hand, that the Pipeline Authority's pipeline will be sold to private enterprise. Implicit in that is the understanding that there is somebody in the private sector who has the money to buy it and who is interested in buying it. That is an implicit and congratulatory comment to the Government. Of course one might ask what the consequences of such a sale would be to the consumers of natural gas in Australia. They are the people about whom we on this side who support the Government have been concerned in the construction of the pipeline. 
These are just 3 examples of specific criticisms and specific promises which the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives has now been prepared to make. What they reveal and illustrate is the philosophical bankruptcy and the social irresponsibility of the Opposition in Australia. As one commentator put it, 'if you compare what  Mr Fraser  said with what  Mr Hayden  proposes you will soon realise who is the hoaxer who does nothing to solve our economic problems'. That is right, I suggest. The difficulty arises because of the philosophical framework in which the Liberal Party suddenly finds itself cast. It is an extraordinary thing in Australian politics that a major political party could elect as its leader a person who has been in Parliament for 20 years and then discover 2 or 3 months after electing him, not before, what his political philosophy is all about. That happened 2 or 3 weeks ago when  Mr Fraser  gave an address at the National Press Club luncheon. Suddenly the Liberal Party, the party which has shown itself to be the party of expediency in the last few years, finds itself saddled with a philosophy, which is rather embarrassing, no doubt. It is an incredible thing for a party like the Liberal Party to have. 
I want to refer very briefly to one or two points expressed by  Mr Fraser  as being the philosophy of the Liberal Party. I quote the opening of his speech to illustrate the point I am making. It is not just  Mr Fraser  speaking off the cuff for  Mr Fraser.  He said it is:  . . especially important for the Australian Press and the Australian people to have a clear sense of the basic approach and philosophy of the Opposition Party. But let me say straight away that I certainly don't see the next LiberalNational Country Party Government restoring the pre- 1 972 status quo. 
We can all be thankful for that because let us recall what the 1 972 status quo was like.  Mr Fraser  continues in the course of his National Press Club address to talk a lot about the concept of freedom. Let us remember what the status quo was like in 1972 in relation to that concept. In 1972 we had the total freedom of the stock market to behave as it wanted- 3  Vi  years later we are still hearing rumblings from that- and at the same time we had a different sort of freedom for young Australian men who were conscripted to fight in Vietnam. There were 2 kinds of freedom. We can all be grateful that  Mr Fraser  would not want to restore to Australia the pre- 1972 notion of freedom if he were ever to lead a government in this country. He continued: 
. without freedom there's no self respect. Freedom to strive, to achieve, to seek excellence. Freedom to be different and freedom to conform. We reject enforced equality in the work place, in the economy, in education. 
Let us analyse the good stuff because  Mr Fraser  quite clearly understands that the notion of freedom and the notion of equality are closely interwoven. Let us look at his allegation that 'we reject the notion of enforced equality in education'. One might ask oneself at the beginning how one enforces equality. There is of course the capacity in any government, in any society, to do its best to encourage or enforce equality of opportunity. That is very different from enforcing equality. I do not think any government could do it and I do not think any government would want to do it. But  Mr Fraser  clearly does not understand the notion of equality of opportunity when in criticism of this 
Government he said: 'We reject the notion of enforced equality'. 
Let us look at what the notion of equality or equality of opportunity means in the context of education.  Mr Fraser  went on to say that people should have freedom to choose what kind of education they wanted for their children. I agree entirely. Should that freedom of choice be limited to a few people-  Mr Fraser  's friends- or should that freedom of choice be available to the whole Australian community? That is the question which is involved. It is not a question of enforced equality; it is a question of whether equality of opportunity is a right of the upper classes or a privilege of every Australian. 

 - Senator Missen has said that they are not the same thing; I am not quite sure what he is talking about. The fact is that in attacking this Government  Mr Fraser  said: 'We reject enforced equality in education'. I will tell honourable senators what enforced equality of opportunity means insofar as this Government is trying to encourage it for many Australians. It means that 208 000 more children are now attending technical schools in Australia than when this Government came to power. It means that 208 000 more children have the opportunity to attend those schools. That is an exercise of freedom by those people which they never had previously. It is an exercise of freedom which will lead to greater equality- not enforced equality -of opportunity in this community. Hundreds and thousands of other school children in Australia are now for the first time getting the benefit of decent equipment and better buildings. That is their exercise of their freedom- a freedom which they did not have the capacity to exercise before this Government came to power. As a result of that exercise of freedom which has been made available to them for the first time there will be, I hope, greater equality in this country; but it is not enforced equality- it is the fulfilment of freedom and the opportunity to have the same chance as everybody else in this society. 
Clearly what  Mr Fraser  means when he talks about freedom in education is that freedom of people to send their children to private schools with the benefit of big concessions which favour the rich. It is the freedom of wealthier people, in the context of this Budget, to gain a disproportionate benefit of life insurance concessions. It is that sort of freedom about which he is concerned; but that is not the sort of freedom about which this Government is concerned. It is not the sort of equality of opportunity about which this Government is concerned and it is not the sort of freedom or equality of opportunity which thousands of Australians who benefited from these programs in education, health and matters of that kind have achieved in the last two or three years. In his speech  Mr Fraser  explains these fundamental political concepts and gives the Liberal Party a new philosophy, however embarrassing it might be. 
-I am terribly glad that  Senator Missen  has said that it is well stated. This is a trendy senator from Victoria saying that  Mr Fraser  's views on equality and freedom are well stated. I will be happy to have that in the  Hansard  record,  Senator Missen. 

 -Mr Fraser continued: 
Freedom means choice in the hands of individuals. 
One could not disagree with that He said: 
Choice of career, of business, of school, of newspaper, of doctor, supplier, product and service, and there's a wealth of  policy implications in that one sentence. 
One must agree with that. He continued: 
In society it means minimum controls in the pursuit of alternative life styles which are themselves compatible with human freedom, and human dignity. 
There has been some speculation about what  Mr Fraser  means about suitable alternative life styles. One has heard people ask whether he has turned out to be latter a day hippy. I think not. The substance of that part of his speech is: 'Freedom means choice in the hands of individuals'. The Australian Labor Party agrees totally with that view and there is nothing to which Opposition senators can point in the 3 years of this Government which suggests that we as a Party do not espouse that view to the full. But we do try to analyse what it means. 
Does freedom mean choice in the hands of a few select individuals or does it mean choice in the hands of the whole of the Australian people? Does it mean freedom to enjoy privilege or does it mean freedom from fear? Does it mean the sort of freedom from fear which a million Australians have now been guaranteed by the introduction of Medibank- the freedom from fear of the consequences of sickness? That is the sort of freedom with which this Government is concerned. It is quite apparently not the sort of freedom with which the Liberal Party is or will be concerned in the future if the philosophy which is espoused in this speech is indeed the philosophy of the Opposition in Australia.  Mr Fraser  said that it means 'choice of career, of business, of school ... of doctor'. Of course it does, but it means that that freedom of choice should be available to every Australian citizen and not to a select few. That is what freedom really means. 
In speaking about this Budget I have criticised the way in which the Opposition has indulged, in my view, in total irresponsibility in a social sense in the current economic context by attacking, for reasons of expediency, the Budget rather than trying to deal with the more positive aspects of it. Indeed, in the spirit in which the Conservative Party in England acted, the Liberal Party should support the Government in its efforts to counteract a very grave problem which this country and many other countries face. In Britain the position of the Conservative Party is quite clear. It has indicated its support for the Government's attack on inflation. The Liberal Party here has not. Instead of it putting forward alternative suggestions we have had a series of carping criticisms about the Budget and a series of statements which as policy statements have been constricted by the very philosophy with which the Liberal Party apparently is now stuck- a philosophy which makes it quite clear that the sorts of priorities about which a Liberal government as an alternative to this one would be concerned are the sorts of priorities which favour sectors of the Australian community, which favour the pork barrelling approach and the handout approach to certain sections of industry, which favour concessions to the rich - 
-No doubt that company would get a substantial pork barrel from a Liberal government. A Liberal government would favour concessions to the rich and concessions to those who want the freedom to send their children to private schools at the expense of every other child in Australia. I support the Budget. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the frequent references to the cost of Medibank as being $ 1,450m. Will the Minister, in the light of these references, inform the Senate of the cost to the Australian Government of the so-called 'voluntary private and noncomprehensive health insurance schemes' prior to the introduction of Medibank? Will he in answering this question relating to Medibank inform the Senate whether he has any up to date information as to the attitude of the Opposition parties to the continuation of Medibank if they were to assume government? 
-I present the following petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to the Budget Speech statement by the Leader of the Opposition that he would abolish the Australian Legal Office in the event of the Opposition becoming the government. I ask the Minister whether he can tell the Senate about the survey conducted by Australian Nationwide Opinion Poll and whether that survey indicates widespread community support for the Australian Legal Aid Office? Will the survey results be made available to the Senate? 
My question which is directed to the Acting Attorney-General relates to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 3 September in which a Liberal member of the New South Wales Parliament,  Mr Dowd,  described the Australian Legal Office lawyers as being inexperienced. He also made some other comments about the staff of the Office. Can the Minister tell the Senate whether  Mr Dowd  said that the Legal Aid Office was substituting youth and inexperience for sound legal advice? Will the Minister tell the Senate whether these views are justified in view of his own knowledge of that Office? 

 Senator JAMES MCCLELLAND To start off, some of the brightest lawyers that I have met have been young and some of the worst have been old. But my attention has been drawn to the newspaper report and - 
Honourable senators- Ha, ha! 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave to move a motion for extension of time for the presentation of the report from the Committee of Privileges. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Has his attention been drawn to an article which appeared in the  Bulletin  on 6 September and entitled  Fraser 's Faceless Men'? I am curious as to whether the Minister, if he has seen the article, can tell the Senate whether he regards the description 'faceless men' as a fair and accurate description. Secondly, can he inform the Senate whether any of the people concerned are in receipt of or are eligible for age or disability pensions? 

 -Mr President, I present the report of the Committee of Privileges on the matter referred to the Committee by the Senate on 17 July, namely, the directions by various Ministers that the public servants called before the Bar of the Senate on 16 July should claim privilege and the further claims for privilege made by the Solicitor-General,  Mr Byers. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
I find  Senator Townley  's act a very hard act to follow, but I will do my best. In fact, while I was listening to him I found it very difficult to follow, too, but, as I say, I will try. I find it extraordinary that a senator who came into this place as an independent and who subsequently discovered that he was no longer independent should put forward the sorts of views which he has tried to express tonight. 
-People listening to this debate will be intrigued to know that the interjection that I have just received came from  Senator Townley,  Liberal, Tasmania. He informs the Senate that he has always been a member of the Liberal Party. There are a few people listening to this debate who will fail to recall that  Senator Townley  masqueraded in this Senate for many months as an independent senator. If that is the sort of thing which the Liberal Party in Tasmania tolerates, then I suggest that many of the comments which the honourable senator has made tonight should be disregarded.  Senator Townley  is very upset about what I have said but I am simply pointing out that this Liberal senator from Tasmania who was for some months in this Senate an independent now claims that throughout that period he was a member of the Liberal Party. People might be confused about what the Senate is in fact debating after listening to  Senator Townley  and to  Senator Wood  who spoke before him. The subject matter of the debate is the proposal by the Government to redistribute the electorates in all States consistent with the decision of the Joint Sitting of Parliament in June last year. We have had contributions from  Senator Wood, Senator Withers  and  Senator Townley.  I must say that they all reminded me of an editorial which appeared in the Melbourne Age of 22 May 1 975. The editorial referred to the Liberal Party in its opposition to the proposals to redistribute electorates in Australia. The editorial concluded with these words: 
We shall not even be spared the mendacious cant with which this cynical expediency will be defended. 
I must say that listening to those speeches I was reminded of that editorial. Of course I took the trouble to look it up. If we examine the subject before the Senate and the contributions which have been made we see that they have been largely devoted on the Liberal side of the chamberand I regret to say in some minor ways on our side of the chamber- to references to the past sins of various political parties in Australia. The record of events in various State parliaments has been put before the Senate as if it was relevant to a decision on principle which the Senate ought to make on the legislation which is before it. It has been pointed out at great length by  Senator Wood  and others that there was what he described as a Labor gerrymander in Queensland for some years and, of course, it has been replaced by a National Country Party gerrymander for many years. It has been suggested by others that there was a Liberal Party gerrymander in South Australia and of course it is properly suggested that there is a Liberal Party gerrymander in Victoria. What is the relevance of all these comments to the Bills before the Senate? 
-Senator Chaney, the trendy young Liberal senator from Western Australia, says he is afraid that history is repeating itself. He is not genuinely afraid that history is repeating itself. He is toeing the line of his masters and acting out of electoral expediency. That is all he is doing. He knows that perfectly well because not one independent commentator in this country has taken the view that this is an unfair electoral redistribution.  Senator Chaney  knows that perfectly well. The point I was trying to make,  Senator Chaney,  for the benefit of people like yourself is that it is not really relevant to recite what happened for many years in various States such as New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia in trying to decide what the great Senate to which we all belong should do in 1975; what it should decide about the future of parliamentary democracy in Australia; and what it should decide about fairness in electoral matters in Australia. If one thing has been sacrosanct to the Opposition in all the legislation it has rejected in the Senate and if one thing has been clear it is that the Opposition parties are not prepared to support any proposal for any change in any electoral law. That goes to the heart of their very existence as political parties. 
The question of electoral laws concerns the Opposition most. We have had opposition to the redistribution. We have had opposition to any proposals to alter the machinery of electoral laws. We have had opposition to the proposal which was put before the people of Australia in a referendum relating to elections. We have had opposition on all these matters simply because they go to the very heart of the Opposition's philosophy as a political party, to its survival and to the question of power. It is disappointing to find that the Senate might be persuaded by considerations of this kind and by arguments suggesting that the Labor Party had a gerrymander in New South Wales in the 1950s, that the Labor Party had a gerrymander in Queensland in the 1 950s, that the Liberal Party had a gerrymander in South Australia and so on. But all these issues are not relevant. Of course,  Senator Hall  in an earlier speech pointed that out. He uttered a warning that we can take these expedient steps today but the rewards are reaped in three, four or five years' time. 
It is very disappointing to see the attitude which the Opposition parties have adopted. I shall refer briefly to the history of this matter. The Labor Party came to power in 1972 with a clear policy that it would redistribute electorates to reduce the inequalities between them. Legislation was introduced and tested because the Opposition precipitated an election which was held in May 1974. One thing was very clear to the people of Australia in May 1974. It was that if the Labor Party were re-elected to power it would proceed with its proposals for the redistribution of electorates. There was no doubt about that. We went to the people on that basis in May 1974. There can be all this waffle about what the concept of a mandate means but our position on redistribution was very clear to the people of Australia in May 1974. Following that election legislation was introduced into the Parliament. The Joint Sitting carried that legislation but the Senate was not prepared to accept the decision of the Joint Sitting. It rejected this legislation following the Joint Sitting. It rejected the report of the Distribution Commissioners appointed to deal with the redistribution. The Senate rejected those matters in April and May of this year. The legislation was passed by the House of Representatives in May of this year and again it was rejected by the Opposition in the Senate. It was clearly rejected because the matter of electoral boundaries is of vital importance to the Opposition. It is a most principled consideration which motivates the Opposition in this chamber. 
 There has been a lot of talk about the nature of the redistribution. It has been suggested that the Labor Party favours the redistribution because in some way it is favourable to it. There is not one tittle of objective evidence to suggest that that statement is true. What is really happening is that the Liberal Party, the dog, wagged by the Country Party tail, has conceded again to the machinations of its country cousins and has decided that this redistribution should be opposed because, of course, it does not favour the Country Party. So that has happened. We get all sorts of honourable senators from the Opposition speaking in this debate and referring to the subject of the legislation as if it were some matter of high principle, as if it were something which vitally affected the Opposition as a matter of genuine concern to its electoral future and so on. 
In case there is any doubt about the situation of electorates in Australia and about equality between electorates, let me deal with that matter straight away.  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, made a number of references to the existing electoral situation which were designed to show that under the existing electoral redistribution the elections which had taken place were fair. That was the point of  Senator Withers'  argument. He said that the results of past elections have generally led to the party which recorded 50 per cent of the vote winning government. 

 -No, Senator Mulvihill, not just except in 1954. What  Senator Withers  said is not true. It is true that in 1954 the Labor Party gained 50.1 per cent of the votes but did not gain government. In 1961 the Labor Party gained 46.7 per cent of the votes and won 62 seats in the House of Representatives. The Liberal and Country Parties gained 40.9 per cent of the votes and also won 62 seats in the House of Representatives. They retained government because the Labor Party representative of the Northern Territory did not have a vote. They retained government by that very narrow margin and with 6 per cent less of the vote than the 
Labor Party. The result in 1 969 was also interesting. The Labor Party won 59 seats with 46.95 per cent of the vote. The Liberal and Country Parties won 66 seats with 43.3 per cent of the vote. That is not, of course, a dramatic situation, but it is a situation that would suggest to any objective observer that the present distribution of electorates in Australia should be looked at, and of course it should be looked at, having regard to the effect of the population changes that have taken place over a number of years. Let me illustrate the point in another way by making reference to particular seats. In my own State of Victoria the electorate of Diamond Valley has 87 500 electors on the roll. 
There is not yet an electorate named after Diamond Jim, but I have no doubt that it will happen soon. 
It is often said of the Senate that it is proof of the existence of life after death and that many people in this chamber are, if not clinically, at least in all material respects, dead. But I am dealing with the electorate of Diamond Valley and hope that the shine of the diamond part of the name of that electorate does not again attract the attention of my colleague. It has 87 500 electors on the roll. The seat of Wimmera has 49 000 electors on the roll. In New South Wales the electorate of Mitchell has nearly 84 000 electors on the roll and the electorate of Darling has 46 000. In South Australia the electorate of Bonython has 83 000 electors on the roll and the electorate of Wakefield has 49 000. That is, of course, a quite dramatic illustration of the discrepancy that exists between those various seats and the need for a redistribution. 
Honourable senators opposite have come into this chamber today with the absolutely facile and superficial argument that it is really more difficult to service, as they have called it- an extraordinary expression, I must say- a large country electorate and that therefore there is a need for smaller country electorates in order that that process, whatever it may mean, can take place. That is, with respect, adopting a very stupid solution to a very difficult problem. There are all sorts of ways in which to secure a greater degree of equality of representation for people than the way that has been adopted in this country over a number of years, of having a vast discrepancy in favour of country electorates in terms of the numbers of electors on the roll. The proposal of the Government, of course, simply is to reduce the margin of that discrepancy from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. 
There are all sorts of ways in which the situation of members of Parliament in country electorates can be catered for. It may be that they should have better facilities available to them; it may be that they should have more staff; it may be that they should have extra transport facilities provided to them. All those things are possible, but they never come up as suggestions from the Opposition. Members of the Opposition sit here day after day and regurgitate stuff about the desirability that country electorates be small and city electorates be large and that the vote of an elector in the cities of Australia should be less valuable than the vote of a country elector. 
-The role of the Opposition? 

 -Certainly. Senator Hall has said that the role of a member of Parliament- I take it by that that he means a member of the Opposition in the Senate- is that of a legislator. 
-I do not want to enter into the mechanics of the problems, but the simple fact remains that, looking at the situation Australia-wide, it is, of course, desirable that an Australian citizen in a city, particularly one in an inner suburb of one of the large cities, should be able to say that his vote is of approximately the same value as the vote of a citizen in a country electorate. That is the simple point involved and the reason for that is quite simple, that is, that the things which matter to him are just as important as the things which matter to people who live in the country. Whether he has Medibank, whether he has high or low taxation, whether he has good transport available to him or whether he has all sorts of community services of one kind or another available to him are just as important to him and just as important to this nation as they are to a citizen who lives in the country. There is no doubt about that. That is the principle from which this legislation stems. 

 Senator Wood put one of the most extraordinary arguments I have ever heard when he said that it is important that the views of country people should be put forward with strength in the Parliament. My God, he must have been listening to the Country Party in the Senate, because if ever there was a valid criticism of the actions of his colleagues in the Senate it is that comment which  Senator Wood  made. He called for the day when the views of the country people should be put forward with strength. They have not been put forward with strength by the representatives of the Country Party so long as I have been here. 
Let me just summarise in this way: As a Government, we have been from the beginning of our term of office pledged to electoral redistribution in Australia. We have been pledged to an electoral redistribution that will reduce the inequalities between country and city electorates. When we introduced such legislation it was rejected. When we put it to the people at an election in May 1974 it was accepted by the people of Australia and it was accepted by the Joint Sitting of the Parliament. Afterwards, when we appointed commissioners to handle the redistribution, the matter was again rejected by the Opposition in the Senate. It was rejected, as I have said before, for the very simple reason that any change put forward by the Government, whether it be a principle change or a nonprinciple change, in relation to any electoral matter is anathema to the Opposition. That rejection, of course, is now a matter of history and, I gather from the speeches which have been made, will be again a matter of history tonight. 
As I said earlier, the comments made by people in the community who have a greater degree of independence in these matters than I have would suggest that what the Government has proposed is not all that unreasonable. I might refer the Senate to just a couple of those comments. The Melbourne  Age  newspaper had certain things to say in its editorial of 22 May 1975 about the Liberal Party of Australia. The editorial is headed, 'Liberals opt for electoral folly'. The point that is made in the editorial is simply this: The Liberal Party has nothing to lose by this redistribution. In fact, it might even have something to gain. It has nothing to lose except the possibility of friction with its National Country Party colleagues. The point that is also made is that if the parliamentary system is to survive in Australia- I suppose that people in this community increasingly are having doubts about that- it must be not only fair but must be seen to be fair. The point of the article is simply to point out to the Liberal Party that this is a stupid act. It is a stupid act which is short-sighted, blind and totally unnecessary. The editorial concludes by stating: 
The Opposition has the numbers in the Senate to block the redistribution proposals. This may give it a slight advantage in the next election, but at the price of perpetuating an unfairly weighted electoral system and of protecting its often mischievous coalition partner against being cut down to a size more proportionate to its popular support. We shall not even be spared the mendacious cant with which this cynical expediency will be defended. 
Of course, that is what has happened in the Senate during the last 24 hours. In another article in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper of 13 February this year under the title, 'Democracy gets a shake-up- Federal redistribution a step towards ending gerrymanders ', the author said this: 
The new Federal redistribution could herald the end of one of the most enduring and unsavoury traditions of Australian Government- 
I might add that honourable senators have talked about unsavoury traditions as if that is relevant to what happens in the future-  the use of electoral gerrymanders by the ruling party to ensure its re-election. 
If the proposals now being released by the commissioners State-by-State manage to pass through the Senate, they could make Australia into something it has never been before - 
A horrifying thought to the Opposition, I know- 
. a country in which all people have equal power to decide who will govern. 
That is the simple proposition. It is something that this country has never been before- a country in which all people have equal power to decide who will govern. This is the legislation which Opposition senators will reject tonight. It is a law which would make this country something it has never been before, a country in which all people would have equal power to decide who will govern. That is what it is all about. The other independent authority on this matter- I think he is by common consent regarded as independent- is  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras. 
I am accused of ruining my argument by referring to  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, the owner of the pendulum of some electoral fame. I take it that  Senator Hall's  interjection means that he does not always rely on  Mr Mackerras'  election eve prognostications. I sense by the vehemence in  Senator Hall's  interjection that  Mr Mackerras  perhaps said something unkind about the independent senator from South Australia on some occasion. However, what he said about the new boundaries was simply this: The present boundaries are, in fact, biased against Labor. I would think that  Senator Hall  would not disagree with that comment. He went on to say this: 
The redistribution will probably be rejected by the Senate. If this happens, it will be rejecting a fair set of boundaries and preserving a set which gives a marginal advantage to the Liberal-CP coalition. 
As a Labor Party senator, I state that 1 frankly do not mind if the electoral boundaries give the Opposition parties a marginal advantage. I do not mind at all. What we object to and what I believe any fair-minded person in Australia objects to is the sort of situation in which the expression 'marginal advantage' which might be regarded as legitimate is translated into a situation in which there are nearly 90 000 voters in one electorate in Melbourne and 40 000 voters in a country electorate in the same State. That is a situation to which all fair-minded people must take objection. That is the situation which precipitated the introduction of this legislation, a situation which is changing day by day as a result of population movements in this country. 
What the Opposition in the Senate is in fact saying to the people of Australia in opposing this legislation is simply this: 'We accept that situation. We accept that if a person lives in the city that person's vote is worth half the value of the vote of a man who lives in an electorate like Wimmera. We say to every Australian who lives in a city that his or her vote on questions such as health and welfare, taxation and so on is worth half the value of a vote of a person who lives in the country. ' That is what the Opposition in the Senate is saying by rejecting this legislation. It is saying, in contradistinction to the point which was made in the article in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper to which I referred, that it believes in a country in which all people have an unequal power to decide who will govern. It is saying that people have an unequal power. That is what rejection of this legislation means. 
As far as I am concerned, I am not speaking as a Labor Party senator on this issue. I am speaking as a person who is concerned about the survival of a democratic system in this country. If senators believe in that, irrespective of what party they belong to, they should support this legislation. In fact, they have no alternative. Not one speech has been made in the Senate on this issue by an Opposition  speaker  which points to any situation which is inequitable, unfair, or disastrous in any way to the Liberal Party or the National Country Party in particular electorates. Of course, it adversily affects the National Country Party overall in certain circumstances. But on the question of equality of voting there is nothing which adversely affects the Liberal Party in this legislation. Its members know that to be true. 
I think that it has become almost a ritual for the Senate to debate this question of electoral law, redistributions and so on. Quite frankly, it is a ritual with which I personally have become bored. But once again one beats the air in this extraordinary chamber about questions which are of concern particularly to young people in this country and to people who are seeking a solution, seeking, if you like, an ideal in which to believe in terms of parliamentary democracy. This debate, which, as I said, is being conducted in a mood of perhaps cynicism and is boring to people like myself because we have been through it so often before, is nonetheless very important to the future of Australia and to the future of people who are concerned that parliamentary democracy should survive, produce and flourish in this country. I commend the Bills to the Senate for the third time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration and relates to Press reports in this morning's  Australian  headed: 'Wilenski staff in strike vote over outsiders'. The article alleges that members of the Minister's Department propose to take industrial action against the Permanent Head of the Department,  Dr Wilenski,  because he has advertised certain departmental vacancies outside the Public Service. Can the Minister tell the Senate what the policy of his Department is with respect to these outside appointments? 
It is always one of the attractive qualities of  Senator Hall's  speeches that he finds it surprising that conservatives should be so short-sighted about the future consequences of actions which they take. I thought that history would have shown that this has always been so. I am pleased in a sense that  Senator Hall  still takes that charitable view of the role of conservative parties in Australian politics and in politics generally. Tonight we are debating the Appropriation Bill, the purposes of which are to allow the government expenditure for the achievement of its objects. 
That Bill is to be rejected. Of course, the debate, in that the knowledge that the Bill is to be rejected, becomes a charade when one considers the contents of the Bill. There was a time when the Senate was regarded as a sort of sheltered workshop of Australian politics, a place in which people like  Senator Wright  enjoyed a comfortable life. Today it enjoys a notoriety and a sense of drama which is totally unjustified by either the action which it has taken, its functions or the collective wisdom which this chamber enjoys. 
The Senate tonight demeans the institution of parliamentary democracy. As Trotsky once put it, it will reduce Parliament to the dustbin of history. It could not happen anywhere else in the sort of parliamentary democracy which we sometimes purport to admire. It could not happen in the United Kingdom. It could not happen in Great Britain. It could not happen in New Zealand. Of course, it could happen in Portugal or Spain, but it could not happen in any of the other countries which I have mentioned. Much play has been made tonight of the fact that the Constitution does not prohibit the refusal of supply or the refusal of a Budget. But I would have thought that that was an elementary point, accepted on both sides of the Senate. All that the Constitution does is prohibit the Senate from amending moneys Bills. The attitude of the Opposition is simply this: We can do anything we like which is not prohibited by the Constitution. That is an epitaph for a political trollop. It is not a statement which dignifies a chamber such as the Australian Senate. 
The action of the Senate tonight is unique in the history of this Parliament. On 20 occasions since Federation an Opposition party has had a majority in the Senate but for the first time this action has been taken although, of course, it was threatened some 18 months ago. The Liberal Party platform, in dealing with the role and function of members of Parliament, says that they should possess an understanding of the parliamentary system and a respect for its traditions and functions. I repeat that it states that members of Parliament should have a respect for its traditions and functions. We are not talking about the fine print of the Constitution in this debate. We are talking about respect for the traditions and functions of Parliament. Those are the words in the Liberal Party platform. But it is that respect for the traditions and functions of Parliament which has been challenged tonight. That is what is involved in this issue. It involves the future of parliamentary democracy in Australia. 
There has been a lot of personal soul searching amongst honourable senators in this Parliament about their attitude to this question. Happily, as  Senator Hall  pointed out, the personal soul searching has all ended in capitulation. Let me as a Labor senator- as  Senator Wright  frequently reminds me, relatively new in this chamber, without the benefit of his vast years of irrelevant experience on this question- remind  Senator Wright  of how I see the position as a senator who has been here for 18 months. What are the conditions of a Labor government in Australia? After 23 years in Opposition we were elected as a government in 1972. Eighteen months later we were forced to an election. We were forced to an election prior to which  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, said: 
We embarked upon a course some 12 months ago- I am not trying to be provocative- to bring about a House of Representatives election. This has now been achieved. 
Four months after the Labor Government was elected in Australia, a plan was embarked upon to bring about a House of Representatives election by the use of Opposition numbers in the Senate. That was an action described by the godfather of the Liberal Party as a denial of popular democracy. Only 4 months after the election that course was embarked upon in what has been described and has gone down in history as a grab for power. The country was disrupted for 3 months by that attempt. The Labor Party won the election. Eighteen months later we are forced into the same position again. We are forced into that position by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who came to power as a man of principle over a man who was not regarded as being a man of principle. Within a few months the man of principle, who said that this should not happen, was saying that this should happen in certain circumstances which he would decide. He decided. Last weekend at the Liberal Party federal conference he was supported by the retiring  president  of the Liberal Party about what those circumstances were. What were the circumstances?  Mr Southey,  the retiring  president  of the Liberal Party, said that the circumstances should be these: 
A grave risk for the rule of law or a lowering of accepted standards of public conduct. 
These were the criteria which  Mr Southey  enunciated for the unprecedented step which the Senate is about to take. Nobody in these debates pointed to the grave risks to the rule of law. Nobody in these debates has pointed to accepted standards of public conduct being lowered to a point which would justify an action of this kind. 
Who makes these decisions?  Mr Southey  and  Mr Malcolm  Fraser make them. Who else helps them in making those decisions? They are the alternative men of a proposed alternative government-  Senator Greenwood, Mr Lynch, Mr Anthony, Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Chipp.  They are the men of the Vietnam war, the men who led this country in to the greatest political deception of our history which cost Australian lives and millions of dollars. It was the greatest deception in Australian political history. They are the men of the McMahon Government under which lies to the Parliament were excused on the basis of lapse of memory. There was no question of resignation then. The Prime Minister simply had a lapse of memory. They were the men of the Government to which  Mr Howson  belonged. He misled the Parliament over the VIP aircraft but did not bother to resign. It was the Government of  Mr Lynch  who misled the Parliament over water torture in Vietnam. He did not bother to resign. Rather, he excused himself by blaming it on public servants and saying that he would look into the matter. He said afterwards, 'I deny these allegations', and he stated that there was no truth in them and no evidence to support them. He claimed that the reason for his denial was because the incident was not known to him at the time. There was no question of  Mr Lynch  's resigning. These are the men who made the decision about what should happen here tonight. These are the pure men of Australian politics who made the decision. Opposite us sit the men who are to carry it out. 
We have had a lot of talk and pious cant about there being no prohibition in the Constitution to their carrying it out; but they are seeking tonight to reject a popularly elected government, and the Senate is not a popularly elected House, whatever they might try to say about that. There are 10 senators here from each State. They have been elected by proportional representation. It is not a representative House. The senators in this chamber from New South Wales represent 10 times as many people as  Senator Wright,  who makes ten times as much noise as the senators from New South Wales. That is true; the senators from New South Wales represent ten times as many people. 
Not only is there that vast discrepancy in the concept of popular democracy in this House but also there are other people who are here under false colours. There is a senator sitting in this chamber tonight who was elected as an independent and who has become the greatest political transvestite in history. Six months after being elected as an independent he suddenly became a 
Liberal again and told us the other night that he was always a Liberal at heart. There are 2 senators here who were not elected at all. One of them got to the Senate by a couple of telephone calls. It is these people who seek to interfere with the right of a government to fulfil and carry out the 3-year term for which it was elected. Again the country is to be disrupted by this sort of grab for power. These are the conditions under which a Labor Party is expected to govern in Australia. These are the conditions imposed by men whose conduct is no better but who rely hopefully on the lapse of memory of the people of Australia. 
Quite frankly, I have asked myself as a member of the Labor Party what is my role as a senator in this House. If, as a result of the effort which is being made tonight, I were to become a member of the Opposition would my role then be to attempt to dignify a parliamentary system for which the great majority in this community have increasingly less respect? Would it be to come here year after year and give opposition to the Government and perhaps some day attain government again, with the sure knowledge that the rules now provide that that government can be thrown out the moment the gallup polls say so if there happens to be, fortuitously, a Liberal majority in the Senate? Those are the rules of parliamentary democracy in Australia as they will apply from now on. Those are the new rules that every Australian has to realise. Frankly I do not believe that this is the future role of the Senate and I would like to be able to say so in my own Party. I would like to be able to go into the councils of my own Party and say: 'The Senate should never reject Supply. A Labor Party majority in the Senate should never do that', but if I were to do that now after the rules had been changed I would be told: 'That is not the game any more, son. You have only been here for 1 8 months. It is a new game now. You are naive.' That is what I would be told because these are the rules that have been laid down tonight. 
I say quite sincerely that with this move tonight the country is embarking upon an unprecedented period of political instability and that period of political instability can only be laid at the door of the Opposition in the Senate. One day another opposition will control the Senate-again, and again we will embark upon a period of instability. How this step can possibly be put in the same basket as  Senator Wright's  vague mumblings, suggestions and innuendo about some skulduggery in relation to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd, and what the relevance of that is to a question of this sort of magnitude, I fail to see. I am quite frankly concerned about the future of the institution of Parliament, I am concerned about the Constitution, which lays down the framework of government in Australia, and I am concerned about the importance of the tradition and function of the Parliament. I see nothing very encouraging, and I have seen nothing very encouraging since I have been here, to lead me to believe that there is a very long period of survival for that institution. What I have seen tonight adds nothing to that. 
Let me refer very briefly to some of the things that this Government has done which relate to the matters about which I have been talking. Early in the life of this Government the step was taken of enlarging the electorate in Australia, of enlarging the possibility of participation in political life by giving the vote to 1 8-year-old people. That was opposed by the Opposition, but the Government did it. Later in the life of this Parliament we sought to give the right to vote in referendums to citizens of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. That was opposed by the Opposition. When people of Australia who live in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory come to vote for senators for their Territories they would do well to remember that because on one side of politics there is a Party which is pledged to deny them the vote that every other Australian has. 
Later we took steps to give the Territories representation in the Senate. That legislation was opposed. In spite of the opposition of honourable senators on the other side of the House that legislation was finally passed at the Joint Sitting and became law. 
Honourable senators opposite were not content with that. It was then challenged in the High Court of Australia. When the High Court declared that legislation valid only last week the first thing that the High Court received was a tirade of abuse from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this chamber. That tirade of abuse was delivered because at no stage will the Opposition accept the verdict which arose from the decision of the Australian people in May 1974, which arose from the decision of the Joint Sitting and which finally developed into a judgment of the High Court. It is still not acceptable although it is a valid law. We have witnessed the extraordinary situation of a man who purports to be the shadow Attorney-General of this country delivering an ex gratia attack on judges of the High Court because he does not like their decision. Only last week did we talk about the institution of parliamentary democracy, its importance and the enlargement of the opportunities for Australian people to take part in political life when we debated the question of the redistribution of electorates. We debated whether Australians by and large should have equal voting rights and whether the vote of a man in the city should have as much value as the vote of a man who lives in the country. We had a debate in which it was revealed, and not denied, that the vote of a man living in a city electorate in Melbourne is worth half the value of the vote of a man living in a country electorate like Murray in the State of Victoria. We drew attention to the fact that the problems of health, taxation, strikes and all the subjects that we debate in this hothouse in Canberra are as important to the man living in the city as they are to any other Australian, but the Liberal Party and the Country Party in this Senate rejected that legislation. They rejected that legislation not on the basis of any principle, because of all the speakers who spoke from the Opposition side of the chamber not one stood up and said that the redistribution was unfair. They all stood up and said: 'Look, in the 1930s the Labor Party did this in Queensland, and in the 1940s the Labor Party did this in New South Wales, and the Liberal Party might have done it in South Australia', as if that was relevant to the sort of question of principle about which people concerned with the survival of parliamentary democracy in Australia ought to be bothered. So that legislation also was rejected. But it was rejected not on the basis of any question of principle but on the sort of basis of expediency that characterises the Opposition's attitude here tonight. I say now, as I said in those debates, that if parliamentary democracy is to survive in this country it must not only be seen to work but also must be fair and be seen to be fair. That is not so at the present moment. 
Finally let me say this: The Opposition is seeking once again to reject this Government and to assume the reins of government itself. It-does so by the medium of rejecting a budget which independent commentators by and large in Australia have accepted with approval, which is more than can be said for the Opposition's proposals put forward in answer to that Budget. There is no commentator, and I exclude  Senator Baume  from them because it is not a description which dignifies him, who has suggested that the Opposition's budgetary proposals were better than the ones put forward by the Government. 
The Opposition is in a position where it has half-baked, unprepared proposals in a number of policy areas, and the most classic example which has been unveiled like a blushing bride is its new industrial policy which, of course, is vital to the economic stability of this country. We are told that the Opposition, if elected to government, would introduce at a cost of about $ 1,000m tax indexation straight away in response to the call of trade unions which have persistently sought wage indexation and tax indexation. Does the Opposition seriously believe that in the turmoil which will follow its action tonight wage indexation, which has been one of the most vital and, I believe, successful planks in this Government's economic policy, will survive a change of Government in this country? Does it seriously believe that that will happen? Does it seriously believe that the old tested and failed remedies of putting unionists in gaol when that industrial policy fails will succeed in 1975 when it did not succeed in 1968? Does it really seriously believe any of these things? 
There is nothing in the amendment to the Loan Bill which was moved by  Senator Withers  which suggested for a moment that the Oppositionthe men of 1971 coming back, or at least seeking to come back, into the situation of 1975 or 1976- has any appreciation of the solution to the issues which a country undergoing rapid change as this country is or has the answers to our problems. 

 - Senator Baume says 'try honesty for a start'. I put it to him earlier, but of course he was not in the chamber, that he makes a bad start in regard to honesty with  Mr Lynch,  for example, having regard to his record, and he is the alternative Treasurer, I understand, if the Opposition succeeds. As I was pointing out, there is nothing in the Opposition's policies which suggests that the Opposition has any capacity to grapple with the sort of situation which is facing Australia today. Thus we find  Senator Withers  in the amendment which he moved tonight talking about the policies of the Government which have created inflation and unemployment not experienced for 40 years. Of course, that is true. However, a lot of things are happening in Australia today which have not been experienced for 40 years, and not once in the Opposition's criticism of the unemployment situation in Australia have I heard anyone attempt to analyse the problem or suggest a solution to that problem. The unemployment which we have today is vastly different from the unemployment which we had under a Liberal Government in 1971 or 1972. Indeed, it may be here to stay as a structural problem in Australian society but none of these solutions is anything but glib. I warn the Opposition that it is no longer possible in a rapidly changing society such as this to go back to the good old days when a Liberal Prime Minister could put the lid on 
Australian society and keep it in the Portugal and Spain league for 25 years before letting it out. 
-I know that  Senator Cotton  comes from that era, but we cannot go back to those days any more because in the post industrial society which we are now entering those options are no longer open to a government. The real tragedy which is most important in this debate is not the sorts of propositions or the people which an alternative government puts forward but the fact that we enter with this decision of the Senate a period of unprecedented political instability with a parliamentary system which no longer has any rules, a parliamentary system in growing crisis and in growing disrepute because the ball game of politics will be changed if this amendment of the Opposition is carried tonight or tomorrow. We will enter a period of unprecedented circumstances with a parliamentary system which may have served us well in the past but which can no longer serve us with the sorts of rules which are being put forward here by the Opposition tonight. I commend the Appropriation Bill to the Senate. 
-The Senate is debating a motion for the restoration of the Appropriation Bills to the notice paper so that the Senate might again grapple with the question of whether the Opposition wishes to continue delaying the passage of the Budget. It is now 2 weeks since the Opposition first announced its intention to delay the Budget in the Senate. Since that announcement was made many speeches have been made in the Senate about the course of conduct on which the Opposition has embarked. At this stage the debate might normally be very tedious. It would be but for the very grave consequences of the course which the Opposition has adopted and but for the line of argument which the Opposition has followed in its tortuous search for reprehensible circumstances to try to justify that criterion which  Mr Fraser  laid down when he was elected Leader of the Opposition and from which he has since departed. In the course of that tortuous and tedious search for reprehensible circumstances we have had references in this chamber and elsewhere to the loans crisis; to the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd matter; to the Khemlani crisis, the new crisis which has been inflicted on the Liberal Party; to an alleged decline in ministerial standards, the charges being made by persons who have the most reprehensible record in this regard; and today to the  post facto  suggestion of reprehensible circumstances which arises from the charge of a Budget leak by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  revealed long after the decision to delay the Budget had been made. 
So we have this long list of Opposition endeavours to try to justify the unprecedented action which it has taken; an action which has been taken for the first time in 75 years of Australian federation. It is all very well for people to quote Government spokesmen when they were in Opposition saying that the proper course might be to defer a budget or a Supply Bill or to vote against a Supply Bill or the proper course might be for a government to resign. It is all very well to cite all these things and to try to avoid the reality of the situation, which is this: Although those threats have been made in the past in the course of party political bluff, although comments of that sort have been made, this is the first time that this action has happened. I mention what we are debating because people might be pardoned for deciding that we are talking about something altogether different. For the first time, to that long list of attempted reprehensible circumstances to which I have referred, we have  Senator Bessell  from Tasmania introducing an entirely new reprehensible circumstance- the condition of the potato industry. Not content with that as a try-on as a possible reprehensible circumstance, he then referred to the situation of the tomato industry as a possible alternative reprehensible circumstance, as a possible reason for delaying the Budget. These are new and unique suggestions from the Opposition which we will no doubt have to devote a few more days to debate. After dealing at length with  Mr Khemlani,  after dealing at length in the Senate with the ACTU-Solo matter and the residue of the so-called loans crisis, we are now confronted with a new situation- that of the potato industry. 
The Budget is being delayed on the basis of these alleged circumstances. It is being delayed, and it is the effect of that delay on the whole of Australia, on the people of Australia and on the economy which is of gravest concern both to the Government and to the people, I believe. The Budget, which contains the economic program of the Government, had a number of important aspects about it. It proposed, first of all, significant cuts in the level of government expenditure. It proposed a deficit of the order of a deficit suggested by all the commentators on economic matters and as suggested by  Mr Fraser  himself as an appropriate parameter in which the deficit might be. 
The Budget was designed to encourage investment. Furthermore, it was designed to encourage spending and to put more money into the pockets of the people in the community by the proposed taxation cuts. The system of concessions was to be abolished and replaced by a rebate system which was much fairer and much more equitable and which would mean that every Australian would from 1 January 1976 be subject to a different tax system for the first time in 30 years. It would mean that half a million Australians would pay no tax at all. It would mean, furthermore, that many taxpayers in the middle income range would pay significantly less tax than they have paid previously. It would mean particularly that the family man would benefit considerably from the tax concessions proposed. Those are one or two positive aspects of the Budget which I feel it worth mentioning, because in all the furore about the price of potatoes and these various matters which have been raised in the debate today it is important to remember what is happening: The Budget is being delayed. 

 -Senator Chaney is to be congratulated. That is one of the best interjections I have heard in the whole course of the Budget debate.  Senator Chaney,  summoning up all of his courage, suggests that the Government has had its chips. By the way that  Senator Chaney  has looked in the last couple of weeks I would have thought that it was somebody else who might have had his chips. I will be coming to him in a minute, and I intend to deal with him at some length. I think the popular consensus is that perhaps that other gentleman has had his chips. But I am relating my remarks to the Budget. 
The point I want to make about the Budget which is being delayed with its positive aspects is that every independent economic commentator in this country has given some credit at least to the Budget and given a lot of credit in many circumstances. Since the Budget was brought down the  Australian Financial Review  has referred consistently to  Mr Fraser's  problem.  Mr Fraser's  problem, according to the  Australian Financial Review,  is to bring up an alternative Budget proposal which is a viable one.  Mr Fraser's  problem is to explain how he will cut government expenditure in a satisfactory manner- in a manner which will produce the results which he hopes for and which will not produce a greatly exaggerated degree of unemployment in Australia. That is  Mr Fraser's  problem- or, indeed, it was  Mr Fraser's  problem until he embarked upon this absurd and totally unprincipled course of delaying the Budget. Now he has a new problem. 
I mention the Budget because that is what this debate is all about. I would say that the Budget has been acclaimed by independent experts as a positive and sensible one in the fight back to restore the economic situation in this country. The delay in blocking the Budget does nothing more than contribute to the economic malaise about which the Opposition senators have been talking for months. It can do nothing more than that. It has a drastic effect in contributing to business uncertainty and in contributing to all sorts of factors which upset the possibility of the proper working of the Budget and the restoration of a reasonable economic situation in this country. One must ask these questions: How sincere is the Opposition about inflation? How sincere is the Opposition about unemployment? How sincere is the Opposition about economic management? 
These issues about which the Opposition used to criticise and carp have not even been referred to very much in the course of this debate. Rather it has been concerned about all sorts of matters such as  Mr Khemlani,  ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and the potato industry. Some years ago this technique used to be called Sukarnoism and what it amounted to was simply an attempt to divert attention from gross ineptitude and mismanagement by raising all sorts of other issues which were totally irrelevant to the real concerns of the people. So we have had, as I say,  Mr Khemlani  trotted back to Australia twice as though that had some relevance to the real concerns of the people and the issues with which the Budget is concerned. This attempt by the Opposition to withdraw attention from its own inadequacies, from the inadequacies of its own economic proposals and from the inadequacies of the programs on various matters which have rather abortively been put forward in the last few weeks is a classic case of Sukarnoism 
This leads me to consider for a moment the tragic decline in performance and standards of this once great Party- the Liberal Party of Australia. I think we all understand that there are 2 great traditions in the Liberal Party. There is the tradition., the mythology of the Liberal Party as the upholder of convention in Australia and the upholder of enlightened conservatism, of alternative policies and of addiction to principle and to fair play in order that the parliamentary system might survive as the basic institution of democracy as we know it. That is the myth of the Liberal Party Opposition- that it is the upholder of convention. 1 do not wish to go into the rather turgid details with which we have dealt previously in the Senate concerning the Liberal Party's failure to comply with the great conventions of parliamentary democracy. I do not have much material to go on to discuss the Liberal Party's alternative policies because we do not really know what they are. All we know are the various matters which I have mentioned, which the Liberal Party has tried to raise to. the level of reprehensible circumstances. The reality of the Liberal Party as distinct from the myths which I have mentioned is that in 1974, 18 months after this Government came to office, it embarked upon the course, which had never been embarked upon before in Australia, of saying: Stand and deliver. Give us a double dissolution election or we will refuse Supply'. Subsequently, on 2 occasions, the Liberal Party broke Senate convention regarding the replacement of senators. 
In 1975 we get now the second version of the stand and deliver argument. The Liberal Party says: 'Stand and deliver us an election because the gallup polls seem to suggest that we might win it. Stand and deliver us an election or the Budget will be refused '. These are the realities of the Liberal Party as distinct from its principles which are so often espoused as being the philosophy of the Party. The key to all this is that still the Liberal Party, the much vaunted Liberal Party, is really the handmaiden of the National Country Party. The Liberal Party began its campaign in support of its rejection or delay of the Budget with a big rally at the Myer music bowl in Melbourne. There was a list of prominent Liberal Party speakers to address that rally. At the bottom of that list there appeared these words: Guest  speaker, Mr Doug  Anthony'. Guest  speaker,  if you please- the man who devised it all in 1974, who supported  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  with his breaking of the convention regarding the replacement of a senator. 
-The ghost at Banquo's feast, as  Senator James  McClelland so eloquently puts it.  Mr Anthony  is the man who again in 1975 provoked this course upon which the Liberal Party has allowed itself to embark. He is the man who is desperately concerned about one particular issue, that is, that the electorates in the House of Representatives might be redistributed in accordance with the will of the Joint Sitting of this Parliament and with the recommendations of the electoral commissioners. That is his basic concern. He is concerned about that for one very simple reason, which is that electorates which have been described by every independent commentator as fair should be the basis for the elections of this Parliament. He is concerned about the decline which the National Country Party would suffer if the votes of citizens in the cities of Australia were worth the same as the votes of citizens in certain country electorates.  Mr Fraser  has yielded to those pressures, and this is the reality of the Liberal Party at the moment. In May 1973 these words appeared in an article in the Melbourne  Age: 
And so we want a style and manner of government that wins respect. We, as Liberals, cannot rely on our opponents making political errors, for unless we demonstrate by better argument, by better policies and by behaviour which commands respect that we have earned the right to government, we will be unlikely to achieve it. 
Those are the words of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. How true the words are. But is it the same man talking? Will the real  Mr Fraser  please stand up? Is the  Mr Fraser  who said that, the man who sought desperately for reprehensible circumstances and then decided to allow himself to be pushed by  Mr Anthony  and his colleagues into this delay of the Budget? Is that the real  Mr Fraser?  That is what the people of Australia want to know. Which is the real one? Is it the one who replaced  Mr Snedden  because he was a man of principle and  Mr Snedden  was not? Is it the man who said that the House or Representatives was the place where the party with a majority should be allowed to continue in government? Or is it the man who in the last few weeks has sought every expedient to justify the actions which he has taken as distinct from those high sounding principles? What does he mean when he says: 'We want a style and manner of government that wins respect. '? Is the Senate winning respect by its present conduct? Is the Senate winning respect by debating the situation of the potato industry when the Australian Budget is being delayed? Is the Senate winning respect by the sort of comments that have been made here today by various speakers on the Opposition side as to how many lawyers everybody has endorsing their particular position? Is that a winning of respect? Is that the sort of thing  Mr Fraser  was talking about. 
He went on to say: 'We cannot rely on our opponents making errors. We must demonstrate by better arguments and by better behaviour that we have earned the right to govern. If we do not do those things we will be unlikely to achieve it. ' I could not agree more with him, and there are many people in the Liberal Party who are beginning to think that they could not agree more with what he said in 1973. But this is the tragic situation with which the Senate is now confronted because of this action which has been taken. It is no longer a question of the sort of issues which were properly debated in this chamber a few months ago relating to economic management and so on. Those issues have gone. They have gone because the Opposition has laid down new issues; not better policies, not better arguments and not better behaviour, but a different set of issues which it hopes will do something to justify its action which, as I said before, is quite unprecedented. 
The reality of the situation which we have reached now was very well expressed in last week 's issue of the  National Times.  Referring to the situation which had been reached in Australian politics, the National Times stated: 
Malcolm Fraser now seems likely to have to choose from one of 3 key alternatives: 
Continue to block the Budget and hope that Labor will fall apart. . . . 
Of course, he could do that, but I think he would be whistling in the dark. There is not very much hope of that happening in the foreseeable future. There might have been but for this action which has been taken by the Liberal-National Country Party alliance. The second alternative was: 
Dig up more dirt on the Government over the loans affair and/or the ACTU-Solo deal- and both front bench members and staff are digging very hard indeed but without apparent success. 
That is the second alternative, and we know a little more about that this week. The third alternative was: 
Accept a face-saving solution ' for the good of the country' offered by the Governor-General. 
I suppose that hope springs eternal in the Opposition 's heart. Hope springs eternal that the Governor-General has, in addition to his other virtues, the virtue of charity and will provide a face-saving solution for the good of the country. Of course it would be for the good of the country. That is hardly any longer a matter of serious political dispute. 
I want to contrast the proposition which the  National Times  puts and the course which the Liberal Party has pursued with the words of the Leader of the Opposition himself. The  National Times  puts the alternative of digging up more dirt on the Government over the loans affairs and/or the ACTU-Solo deal and suggests that attempts are being made very vigorously to do so. We all know that it is taking place. The alternative put forward by the Leader of the Liberal Party is to try to cultivate a style of government that receives the respect of the Australian people, commands their attention and gives the Liberal Party the right to govern. As I have said before, many Liberals share that view put by  Mr Fraser.  But the contrast is between the mouthings of principle and the actual behaviour of the Opposition. The behaviour of the Opposition is zeroed in, if I can use that expression, exclusively on the suggestion made to it by the  National Times  to dig up more dirt on the Government on the loans affair and /or the ACTU-Solo deal. Then this bonus came out of the blue sky yesterday when  Mr Hayden  announced that he had disclosed details of the Budget to  Mr Hawke. 
-No, I would think that it is a mistake by  Mr Hayden.  I would think a mistake - 

 -Senator Wright, the difficulty is that you have to use that incident, if you can, as a reprehensible circumstance. But the Opposition decided to delay the Budget 2 weeks ago, long before it knew anything about this matter. I presume that these are called post facto reprehensible circumstances. 
I know that  Senator Wright  has made a judgment about the matter. Of course, all the speeches from Opposition senators that we have heard in this debate amount to one thing. They do not like the Government. None of the Opposition speakers likes the Government. Surprise, surprise! I did not come here 18 months ago really thinking that they would. They have carried on for a fortnight now saying that the Budget has to be delayed because they do not like the Government. I subscribe very realistically to the view that that will probably continue to be the case. What I am trying to say in the course of my remarks tonight is that they will have to get used to that position because it will continue to be the case for a very long time. 
Let us examine the conduct of members of the Liberal Party. It was referred to by  Senator Hall  the other day as the party which was impressed by money, staff, nice offices and things of that kind and as being led into this course of conduct by this sort of thing. The Liberal Party machine has reared its head and displayed its true quality. 
It has displayed its political acumen, if I can put it that way, by those brilliant advertisements we saw in the newspapers day after day. I think that the advertisements stated, 'We had to do it' or We must do it'. We heard that cry of desperation from a man of principle who suddenly had to descend into the cave of the troglodytes, walk across hot coals or whatever might be necessary in order to try to win electoral power. So the Opposition members continue day after day to beat their breasts, saying that they do not like us. That is not a reprehensible circumstance in itself. That condition came about on 2 December 1 972 when the new criterion of reprehensible circumstances had not been invented in Australian constitutional law. 
-Of course, as  Senator James  McClelland points out, the very fact of the Labor Party's winning office was itself a reprehensible circumstances from which the Opposition has never recovered. I say this to Opposition members: The real task that they have is not to persuade themselves in their righteous indignation and dislike of this Government that a whole set of reprehensible circumstances exists. The real task is to persuade the Australian people of that as a political exercise, quite apart from the constitutional problems which you have, quite apart from questions of political morality and quite apart from departure from the fine sounding statements which their new Leader of principle has espoused over the last few months and from which he has so consistently departed in practice. These are the real problems which the Opposition has in a political sense. What we are concerned about is to get the Budget back before the Senate and to get it passed in order that the things that the Opposition expressed concern about in months gone by- inflation, unemployment, lack of business confidence, education- could be proceeded with as a matter of the normal processes of Australian government. If that course had been followed the whole situation politically might be a little different, both for the Liberal Party and for Australia.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I understood  Senator Poyser  to describe  Senator Chaney  as a poppet rather than a puppet. I think we all agree with that. Many references have been made in the debate by  Senator Missen  and others to the desire of  Mr Khemlani  to clear his name. I understand that when  Mr Khemlani  came to Australia that was his announced purpose. There is a difference, of course, between somebody who wants to come before the Senate and clear his name, as  Mr Khemlani  said he did, and the exercise which was engaged in last week.  Mr Khemlani  could quite properly have come before the Senate on Tuesday or Wednesday of last week and cleared his name by a simple statement. But that was not the cause of the delay last week. The cause of the delay was not that the Opposition wanted to facilitate  Mr Khemlani's  clearing of his name but that it wanted to obtain material which hopefully would besmirch the name of the Government and particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  That is a completely different exercise which is still being a little confused in the minds of honourable senators opposite today. 
The purpose of the motion now before the Senate is to use  Mr Khemlani's  express wish to clear his name as a sort of trojan horse to be wheeled into the Senate and out of which will come some material which may or may not be damaging to the name of the Government. 
-I know that it is Melbourne Cup day and that the word 'horse' upsets  Senator Baume.  The point is that  Senator Withers  has quoted from a document which apparently has been made available to him by 

 Mr Khemlani. Having quoted from that document, as is required by standing order 364,  Senator Withers  has then used the procedures of that standing order to try to have the document laid upon the table. The Government's case in this regard is not that we are particularly concerned about the contents of the documents; in a political sense, they have now become a great yawn and I do not think many honourable senators, let alone anybody else, would even bother to read them. The basis of our objection is not, as is hoped by Opposition senators, that the documents will be embarrassing in some way, but rather that it is a misuse of the procedures of the Parliament to introduce documents in this way. It is a misuse of the procedures of the Parliament because the exercise is not to protect  Mr Khemlani's  name, as has been claimed, but to do something else and to do it on the basis of a classic hearsay situation. 
-That is what it is. 
-I do not know. 
Let me come back to  Senator Durack  's point. He said that we did not table all the documents. Of course we did not table all the documents. The ones which were in  Mr Khemlani's  possession and which I understand now to be in the possession of the Opposition were not our documents. We could not table them. I do not see the point that the honourable senator is making about that. The only objection we have is that it is a misuse of the procedures of the Parliament. To go on with this nonsense about  Mr Khemlani's  name as being a matter of importance to the Opposition is just the utmost hypocrisy. If one looks to see who asked that  Mr Khemlani  be brought before the Bar of the Senate, that information can be found in  Hansard  of 28 October when the  President  recorded that he had received a letter from  Mr Lynch  about this matter and that  Mr Lynch  had received a letter from  Mr Khemlani  asking him to facilitate his appearance before the Bar of the Senate for the purpose of clearing his name. The Opposition had all last week to do that. It was not a difficult thing for an Opposition which has a majority in the Senate to facilitate, if it was applying its mind to that particular problem.  Senator Greenwood  laughs because he knows that the Opposition was not the least bit interested in  Mr 
Khemlani 's name, except as something to bandy about as an adjective before the word 'crisis', the word 'scandal* or something of that kind.  Senator Greenwood  knows perfectly well that last week nothing was further from the Opposition 's mind than clearing  Mr Khemlani's  name.  Mr Khemlani  got no satisfaction from  Mr Lynch  in using him as the point of introduction to the Senate. 
-That is what we are told. If it takes  Mr Khemlani  100 pages and all the facilities which the Opposition lawyers made available to him to clear his name, it must be a dreadful situation in which  Mr Khemlani  finds himself. It may be that he is in that dreadful situation because of his association of the last week. It may be that  Mr Khemlani  started the week feeling- he indicated this in the letter to  Mr Lynch-  that he could come before the Bar of the Seriate if the Opposition would help him, clear his name very quickly and go away. But after his association with these people last week he decided that it would take him 100 pages of a statutory declaration to do so. 
I am not here to answer a series of interrogatories submitted to me orally. I am here simply to make the point that this whole thing - 
If  Senator Wheeldon  would cease interjecting I would be able to get on with what I want to say. The point of the matter is that the whole exercise is an insult to  Mr Khemlani-  the way in which his name has been used to introduce this motion into the Senate and the attempt to use the provisions of standing order 364 to bring these documents on to the table of the Senate. I oppose the motion. 
-I do not wish to speak at any great length in regard to these 3 Bills which the Senate is now debating and which relate to the taxation proposals announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  when bringing down the Budget this year. I am a little perturbed, however, at the lectures which we have received from the Opposition side about the situation of private industry and, indeed, of private taxpayers. I would commend to the Opposition senators, if they are generally concerned about those matters, that they should read the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures newsletter of last week which said that one of the factors which would most adversely affect private industry in this country in the immediate future was the delaying of the Budget and the unavailability of funds from the Australian Government for private industry in certain areas. Of course, it is all very well to discuss these taxation proposals, as it were, in limbo as a sort of an academic exercise, but we must do it in the context of the current situation and realise that the delaying of the current Budget, of which these taxation proposals are in essence part, has a very adverse effect on the situation of private industry and on the situation of persons employed by private industry. 
When speaking about the taxation restructuring proposals  Senator Cotton  used the word illusion'. He described the benefits which will flow to thousands upon thousands of taxpayers as an illusion. I long to be in the Senate on some occasion when Opposition spokesmen describe some government initiative as something other than an illusion or a delusion. The loans crisis, so called, is described as a delusion of this Government. Various other things in which the Government has been concerned are described as delusions. These proposals were hailed by independent commentators- I will refer to some of those testimonials, if I can call them that, in a moment -as being a very significant step forward in the restructuring of the tax scale, and now they are described as an illusion. It is an extraordinary exercise in Opposition politics for the debate on these matters to descend always to that level. 
The essential points of the legislation now before the Senate are, as I mentioned, an alteration in the personal income tax structure and a reduction in the level of company tax. The effects of the alteration in the personal income tax rates are very substantial. For people like me, who always have arithmetical difficulties with these things, the first point which should be made is that the reduction of steps in the tax scale from fourteen to seven is in itself a welcomed thing, but the benefits which flow from that, and to which I will refer in a moment, are even more significant. I might just refer very briefly to the sorts of comments which were being made by commentators about this restructuring of the personal tax scale on the day after the Budget was introduced and indeed for several days after that. Commenting on the taxation proposals, the economics editor of the Melbourne  Age,  Mr Davidson,  said this: 
The restructuring of the income tax schedule was long overdue. 
I interpolate there that the sorts of comments which have been made here today about the increasing slice of the cake taken by personal income tax from taxpayers have been made for as long as I can remember. There has been more justification for them in recent years in an inflationary situation, but they are nothing new. We have lived under the same tax scale for 23 years, 3 years of which have been a period of Labor government.  Mr Davidson  went on to make this comment in the Melbourne  Age. 
The lowering of the marginal rate for all levels of income for the average wage earner- the marginal rate has been brought down from a prospective 48 per cent under the old scale . . . to 35 per cent under the new scale- should have a positive effect on incentive. 
By lowering marginal rates, the Government has gone a long way to meet the proponents of tax indexation. 
The lower the marginal rate, the lower the additional tax paid through growth in money earnings due to inflation. 
Thus the new scales should moderate the components of wage demands based on the need to meet higher tax commitments. 
I should add at that point that it is extraordinary to me that persons criticise the proposed alteration of the tax scale on the basis that we live in an inflationary situation. I would have thought that that aspect was largely taken care of in the case of wage-earners by the very existence of wage indexation. True, there can be a political debate about the degree of money available to the private sector and so on. But, as I said, I would have thought that the argument about the level of the new tax rates was scarcely valid in the way it is sometimes put in the context of wage indexation. 
A further comment made by  Mr Davidson  in the same article is simply this: 

 Mr Hayden 's income tax changes are innovative and definitely a move in the right direction. 
That was all that was claimed for them by the Treasurer- nothing more than that. That is one of the significant aspects of the proposals because they do, by restructuring the tax scale, provide scope for a variety of initiatives which can be taken in subsequent budgets or indeed in subsequent yean; whether those initiatives be in a Budget or not. The conclusion that  Mr Davidson  reached in this article following the comments to which I have referred was simply this: 
It will be difficult for the Opposition to refuse Supply in the Senate in November on the grounds that  Mr Hayden  's first Budget is economically irresponsible. 
I did not quote that passage to indicate that there is perhaps no validity in the first 2 views which  Mr Davidson  put. He perhaps did not have the gift of prophecy, but he did have the capacity to point out that it was difficult for an Opposition to refuse Supply on the ground that the Budget was irresponsible. As I understand it, that is not why Supply is in fact refused. It is much rather on the basis of other allegations about which we have heard in the Senate in the last 3 weeks. 
I was referring to the benefits which flow to the ordinary taxpayers from the provisions of this proposed legislation. Firstly, nearly two-thirds of the taxpayers in Australia will receive significant tax cuts. I would like to come back to that aspect in a moment in case it be disputed. Secondly, some half a million lower income earners will be freed altogether of taxation obligations. It is true, thirdly, that the emphasis of these proposals and the proposed re-scheduling favours the family man with children. That is a value judgment which is contained in the Budget. I think that  Senator Guilfoyle  and others legitimately speak up for those single persons in the community and those without children who may have to pay a slightly higher marginal rate of taxation. But I answer their claims simply by saying: Well, of course, we are aware of that. That is a fact. That is so. But in bringing down the Budget, the Government was making a value judgment about where the burden should most properly lie and where relief from the burden of taxation should most appropriately be given. We on this side of the chamber make no apology for that situation. 
Next, I would point out that the revised tax scales in fact operate from 1 July 1975, for this tax year. As a practical matter, they come into application on 1 January 1 976. The effect of the introduction of the revised scales on 1 January 1976 can be demonstrated in certain practical ways. I wish to refer to some figures in order to demonstrate what it will mean to the average Australian taxpayer after 1 January next year, and indeed after 30 June next year, when the effect of the revised tax scales for the first 6 months of this full financial year will be taken into account. Might I refer briefly to some figures indicating the situation of a family man with a dependent wife and 2 children. With weekly earnings of- $120, his current weekly tax is $12.60. The new weekly tax will be $7 and the weekly saving from 1 January will be $5.60. A man on $ 1 40 a week will have a weekly saving of $5.85; on $160 a weekly saving of $6.85; and on $200 a weekly saving of $9.60. 
Those are real and significant savings when, in spite of a rapid increase in average earnings, we still talk about a $5 wage increase as being significant. That is the sort of amount which a man on $120 a week gets by way of tax relief. It is true, as  Senator Guilfoyle  said, that he may have to pay a little more for his cigarettes and beer because of indirect taxation, but again that is a value judgment written into the Budget proposals. The Government does not apologise for that, and I record the fervour and passion with which  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, has spoken on this Budget on behalf of the beer drinkers of Australia. I must point out that there is an implicit judgment in what has been done. As I have said, the benefits are there for the family man with a wife and 2 children. Those benefits are substantial- less substantial, I suppose, if he is a drinking or smoking family man, but nonetheless they are there. He has the freedom of choice, which  Senator Guilfoyle  talked about in another context, to decide whether he takes that benefit or not. He can give up smoking, as I cannot, or he can give up drinking - 
As  Senator Georges  cannot. He has the freedom to make that decision and to reap the benefits accordingly. I agree with  Senator Guilfoyle  that in the case of the single person without dependants the tax saving on the lower income is in fact negligible. Certainly it is nothing on a really low income. Even on a weekly income of $200 the tax saving is only approximately $3.20 a week, whereas a person on $120 a week in fact will lose $1.55 more than he loses now. As I have said, that is part of the value judgment which is inherent in the Budget proposals. I think it is important that we understand fully what is the real effect of the proposed alteration of the taxation scale and what it means for various people in the community. 
Might I make 2 other comments about the Budget. The first relates to the question of making more money available to individuals because of the tax scale alterations. The  Age of 22  August -and we have almost forgotten about this at this stage- commented: 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  has been less enthusiastic about the new scheme. He argues that it will reduce overall income tax by only $205 m a year.  Mr Fraser  argues that because all taxpayers will get an automatic tax rebate of $540 a year, it will be an incentive for people to be spendthrift. 
That is the point that  Senator Guilfoyle  took up. The article continues: 
This argument sits uneasily with his earlier view that Governments should allow people to decide more for themselves how to spend their money. 
That inconsistency, which was widely discussed when we were debating the Budget proposals in August, is sometimes overlooked. Another comment about the Budget from the finance editor of the Melbourne  Age  is as follows: 
As a political document it is excellent. Consider the plight of the Liberals; they can hardly be expected to be taken too seriously if they lambast it for being irresponsible; they are in a difficult position if they reject it because the tax changes make this politically difficult although certainly not impossible. 
Again, there is a hint of dubious prophecy in that comment. I wish to say something about one other aspect of this legislation which has been dealt with by previous speakers. That is the question of the lowering of the rate of company taxation. I personally take the view that the Government might have gone slightly further than it did in dealing with the company taxation rate. My off-the-cuff reaction at the time of the presentation of the Budget was that perhaps the rate should have been reduced to 40 per cent. Of course, there is room for an intelligent discussion about that within the overall parameters of the budgetary strategy. I think that the Treasurer made it quite clear that as a question of balance he felt that that was the appropriate rate. The finance editor of the  Sydney Morning Herald  agreed with him when he commented on the revised rate of company taxation. He described it as an aspirin Budget and referred to it in terms which I will outline. He was referring, of course, to the undoubted difficulties in which many businesses find themselves at the moment, and have found themselves in for some time. He said: 
More than 18 months of a worsening migraine suffered by business is now promised some alleviation, although only experience will tell whether it will be fast, fast relief whether it will merely subdue the symptoms and leave the economic malady uncured. 
That is very responsible comment about the proposals, distinct from the comments made by Opposition spokesmen the day after the Budget was presented when they said without any shadow of doubt that this Budget could do nothing to restore business confidence and that the proposals in relation to company tax were extraordinarily ungenerous. That finance editor goes on to state: 
The aspirin comes in  two Forms,  both immediately soluble. 
He refers to the  2lh  per cent cut in company tax rates and the double depreciation concessions being continued and broadly extended. When we are discussing this question of the plight of private business, I think it is important that we should distinguish between various companies and various sections of business. I do not think that that is done often enough. Certainly, many businesses in Australia- we read this in the financial pages of the various newspapers- are doing very well at the moment. There are others in quite serious difficulties. Some of those companies in the past have been perhaps content to rely on pork-barrel politics to assist them out of difficulty and some have been used to going it on their own. I remind the Senate of the recent statement by  Mr Martin,  the general manager of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd in which he made a very similar point. What he said, in effect- I paraphrase his remarks, and I hope that I do him no injustice- was that a lot of the business community should stop whinging and get on with the job. He said that such sections of the business community should learn to live with a government of slightly different complexion from the previous one and not seek to blame - 
It is only slightly different. After listening to  Senator George's  speech this afternoon, I wondered whether it was different at all. They should get on with the task of running their businesses and stop bemoaning their fate- a bemoaning which seems so frequently encouraged rather than discouraged in a responsible way by the Opposition. 

 Senator Guilfoyle and her Leader,  Mr Fraser,  have adopted the Mathews Committee recommendations as the panacea for business problems, in a rather holus-bolus way. I think one important aspect of the Treasurer's Budget Speech is his indication that the Mathews Committee proposals had been studied, that some of them could not be introduced this year for very practical reasons, which he gave, and that some of them would not be introduced because it appeared to the Treasurer and the Taxation Office that the proposals were probably wrong. I refer particularly to the suggestion of revaluation of business stocks and the difficulties which have been pointed out in administering a system of that kind. I am not saying that the Mathews Committee recommendations are wrong. Frankly, I do not know enough about them. I am not saying that the Taxation Office view of some of the proposals must necessarily be right. I do not know enough about that. All I am saying is that as an observer, if I could put it that way, I am suspicious of the way in which the Opposition has adopted the Mathews Committee proposals in what seems to be a very uncritical sort of way. 
I do not know whether I would put it as high as that. There does seem to be a very marked lack of critical analysis of those proposals. I think there are certain warnings in that. 
-I am asked whether I think that characterises all of the Opposition's attitude. I would say no, just occasionally; say one time in a hundred there is a critical analysis of an alternative policy. 
I refer now to this question of the aspirin Budget. By the way, aspirin is a painkiller of some kind. I would hate anybody in the Senate to think that aspirin was the  chairman  of another committee or anything like that. The aspirin is the painkilling aspect of the Budget. In discussing whether that aspirin Budget may ease the business headache, the financial editor of the  Sydney Morning Herald  pointed to the situation with which various businesses were faced and said, responsibly I submit, that time will tell whether the proposals put forward in the Budget fulfil that promise. Time will tell- not the Opposition which has told us with rapidity and scant attention to the depth of the proposals which have been put forward- was the point which was made. 
For those reasons I commend the 3 Bills to the Senate. In the contents of commending them I say that they are, in a sense, a part of the proposals which were put forward by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech of 19 August this year. In putting them forward he was offering a package deal, as it were, a part of which has been delayed by the Senate. In giving us lectures about the details of the Budget proposals, I hope Opposition senators will occasionally be mindful of a view which is very widespread in the community, and that is that one of the difficulties which the people of Australia face economically at this moment results from the stand taken by Opposition senators under instructions from their leader. I regret very much that the situation has come about in this way. I much regret that this House of review, as we hear it called, and this States' House, as we hear it called, should have its privileges so disparaged as to accept instructions on this matter from a gentleman in another place. 
-I understand  Senator Wright's  longstanding assertion of his independence but I have yet to see any evidence of it. That is the thing that distresses me in a senator who, in the first speech he made after my coming here, described himself as a bulwark of the Constitution. I agree he looks like a bulwark but he never behaves like one; that is the difficulty I have. It is a source of grave political regret that in this principled independent House of review when somebody in the other place says 'Frog', all the Opposition senators jump. That is a very sad situation for this country. Somebody interjects about  Mr Whitlam.  I might say I am coming around to Gough 's view myself as I look across the chamber. I commend the 3 taxation Bills to the Senate,  Mr President. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment and other matters. In regard to land bought by the previous Government at Woolloomooloo I ask the Minister whether he will affirm or deny that negotiations are taking place with the Government of New South Wales, under  Sir Eric  Willis, with respect to the sale of that land to private commercial interests? I remind the Minister that the land was purchased by the previous Government for low cost housing. Will he affirm or deny that that land is being sold to private commercial interests and that negotiations are taking place regarding that matter? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. Is it true that the results of 22 studies associated with the poverty inquiry are not to be published? If so, can the Minister justify the departmental estimate of a saving of $132,000 compared with the immense cost of the research over 3 years that was initiated by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in connection with those studies? Further, since the survey has been acclaimed world-wide by experts as being unique for its comprehensive research data and analysis, could the Minister explain the reason for the decision, if in fact it has been made, to diminish seriously the value and usefulness of the survey? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, follows upon other questions which have been asked about the position of  Mr Garland.  The question really seeks assistance in semantics. If a Minister had been charged with bribery during the period of the Labor Government, would the Attorney-General regard that as having been a reprehensible circumstance? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a special committee of the United Nations dealing with decolonisation last year decided to send a mission to investigate the situation in East Timor? Does the Government support the sending of such a mission to East Timor? Will it cooperate with the sending of such a mission to East Timor? Further, has the Government made any positive attempts to send either medical or food supplies to people in the unoccupied areas of East Timor? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and relates to the inquiryintoFraserIsland.CantheMinister inform the House of the present state of that inquiry and of the present position of the Government in relation to the report of such inquiry if and when it is tabled? 
-The Senate is debating the Governor-General's address setting out the Government's program for the forthcoming parliamentary session. Let me begin my comments about that address given by the Governor-General by congratulating the  President,  through you,  Mr Deputy President,  on his election. I do so for a number of reasons. First of all I feel that the new  President  is a very worthy recipient of that office. I also congratulate him on the fact that he has been elected only 1 8 months after the last  President  was elected to that office. Who would have thought 3 years ago that twice in a period of 3 years a new  President  of the Senate would be elected? As one honourable senator put it to me the other day: Who would have thought that he would be elected 3 times in 5 years for a 6-year term in the Senate? So in extending congratulations to the  President  I remind him that his election to office came about in quite extraordinary circumstances and I propose to refer to some of those. I also congratulate the  President  because it appears from what has happened in the past few months in this chamber that he has been elected to the office of Presiding Officer of one of the most powerful legislative chambers in the world. It is a chamber which can apparently force elections at whim, can reject a Budget, can defeat a government by delaying a Budget and can defeat a legislative program which the Government was elected to carry out. 
I will come to the question of your whims at a later stage,  Senator Wright.  At the moment I am talking about the Senate as a whole. In being elected to the office the  President  has taken on, I respectfully submit, an awesome responsibility, so much so that I feel a sense of awe in my heart when the Usher of the Black Rod announces the  President  each daythe same sense of awe as no doubt would be struck in the hearts of Ugandan parliamentarians when the equivalent officer announces the  President  of Uganda. Be that as it may, the  President  has been elected to this position. I am pleased personally for him and I hope he will do his best to discharge the very grave duties which that high office now imposes on him. 
In the last few days the Labor Party has been taken to task in this chamber for its attitude to the opening of Parliament and what took place at that time. It has been said by Government senators that the Labor Party cannot take an election defeat and that is what we are upset about. I find that an extraordinary comment because we are very used to taking election defeats. We are probably more experienced at it than any other political party in the Western world. It is not the fact that we were beaten in an election which upsets members of the Labor Party. We are, as I say, used to it but it is the circumstances of the life of a Labor Government and the way the term of that Government was brought to an end which is the source of irritation and the source of disappointment and concern amongst members of the Opposition. 
If I may continue without the assistance of  Senator Wright,  I would like to refer to some of those circumstances. First of all, twice in the term of a 3 year Labor Government the Opposition, for the first time in Australia's political history, chose the date of an election. It chose the date of an election in 1 974 which it lost. Bad judgment', one might have said. It chose the date of an election in December 1975 which it won. The point which I wish to make is simply this: If a parliamentary system is to work- as I came here 1 8 months ago believing it ought to work- it should work on the basis of a government being elected to fulfil a program over a defined period of time. In Australia it happens to be 3 years. 

 Mr Fraser, the present Prime Minister, has been quite unabashed about his view on this. He says that he will require 3 years in which to get the economy of Australia into what he regards as a satisfactory condition. It is precisely 3 years that  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Snedden  before him were not prepared to grant to the Labor Government to carry out its program. It is precisely that term which they now ask for but which they were not prepared to grant to a Labor Government. It is those circumstances and the various incidents which took place involving the delaying and the blocking of Supply, the replacement of retired senators and the replacement of a dead senator, which lead many of us to query where the parliamentary system in which we are asked to performthe parliamentary arena in which we are asked to take part- is going. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack only the other night gave the Opposition a lecture in this place. He told us that any group, including a group of baboons about which he might be much more closely informed than I am, had to conform to certain rules if the institution to which they belong was to operate successfully. We agree with that view but we want to know what the rules are. The suggestion that this Parliament is some sort of club in which only certain people are entitled to be on the committee of management threatens, I believe, the parliamentary institution. As a member of Parliament I am concerned that that institution should survive, not for my own sake but from the point of view that I still regard it as perhaps the best of a number of possible evil systems of managing the affairs of a country. It is about those issues we must be concerned in the period of this Parliament. 
Politics, as I understand it in the 20th century, is about managing change. The new President in this Senate and the new Speaker of the House of Representatives have chosen to wear wigs after 3 years of the abandonment of that practice. I know that is not a very significant point, but it does suggest in a symbolic way that the sort of change that the Government is concerned about helping to manage is not the change which will suit Australian society and it is not the direction in which Australian society ought to be pointing. Those wigs, I believe, are also intended to be a symbol of the dignity of Parliament. Parliament cannot gain dignity and it cannot gain respect in the eyes of the Australian community by a couple of its officials wearing wigs. It can gain respect and dignity in the eyes of the Australian people only if it is seen to be an institution which behaves itself and operates according to certain defined rules- which I thought until last year were accepted by all political parties. It cannot only be seen to be fair if it does that, but it also must be seen to be fair by the people of Australia. It is not fair and will not be seen to be fair so long as those sons of practices are not tackled in an imaginative way and so long as the electoral system which sends members of Parliament to this place is, by all consensus of expert opinion, unfair. 
These are the issues to which I hope the Parliament might have sufficient imagination to direct its attention in the coming 3 years. It is quite obvious that we, as an Opposition, cannot contemplate continuing participation in the parliamentary institution unless it is a fair institution and is seen by the people of Australia to be so. Honourable senators opposite, as Government senators, can sit in this chamber enjoying the perks of office but if they are not prepared to contemplate the issues about which I am talking I believe that the institution of Parliament is doomed and those things which they would most devoutly wish not to occur in Australia will occur. 
It is those matters which concern me and which lead me to take to task some honourable senators who have seen this undoubted bitterness amongst members of the Labor Party as some sort of aberration by people who were defeated in an election. As I said earlier, it is not the defeat in the election which concerns us; it is the way in which the election was brought about. We are concerned to ensure that steps are taken in this Parliament to see that we have a better electoral system in this country and that we have a Constitution which is not a completely outmoded document, totally inappropriate to the management of a contemporary society. 
I turn to the Governor-General's Speech. Like the election promises made by the then Opposition, the Governor-General's Speech is, with respect, full of sound and fury which signifies nothing. If one compares it with the 2 previous Speeches by the Governor-General in the 2 previous Parliaments which laid down detailed legislative programs of what the then Government intended to do with or without Senate obstruction, it can be seen to be a statement of vague generalities and rather specious philosophies. No specific legislative program is laid down. One can read that document and really have no idea, in a legislative sense, what the Government intends to do. 
One wonders whether the Government understands what it intends to do. Nobody reading the Speech can get any idea. One journalist, commenting on the Governor-General 's Speech, said that portions of it were prepared by officials and recast in 'Fraserology'. 'Fraserology' as I interpret it from reading the collected wisdom of that man, enunciated in various speeches, involves a rather Leaving Certificate standard statement or dissertation on notions of freedom and equality in society. I make that somewhat derogatory remark about it because the point about which we are concerned is simply this: It is no good to say that people can have freedom of choice in Australia and that people who are on the pension can have freedom of choice, if that pension is inadequate. It is no good to say that poor men in Australia have the same freedom of choice as rich men and think that is the end of the problem. Freedom is a notion which involves a deal of conceptual thinking. Both in his National Press Club address last year and in the Governor-General's Speech,  Mr Fraser  has indicated quite clearly that he has no understanding of the notion of economic and social freedom which we, as a Party, have tried to put to the people of Australia in the last few years. We will continue to do so because we regard it as important. Another important point in the Speech is contained in paragraph (4) on page 2 of the Governor-General 's Speech which states: 
Historic reforms will be made to reverse the concentration of po  ower  in the Federal Government and increase the autonomy and responsibilities of Local and State Governments. The Government believes that there must be more scope for community and individual initiative if people are to solve their problems sensitively and with a rational use of resources; 
Of course, that is like mother's milk; we all believe in all that stuff- that people should have initiative and should have freedom to solve their own problems as much as possible. Having said that, it does not say very much more- except to suggest the thin vein which runs through all Fraserology, which is that somehow people in Australia would be freer and their affairs would be better managed by their governments if somehow the State governments played a much more significant role in the management of human affairs than they do at present. I am afraid that that is a proposition which I contest and will continue to contest. Only one State government, the Government of South Australia, can in any way be said to have displayed quality and imagination in the administration of the affairs of the State. 
-I shall talk about the Hamer Government in a moment, and  Senator Missen  can perhaps interject more freely then and tell me what it has done. I illustrate the point about freedom by instancing another State government-that of Queensland. I do not think anybody in this chamber would seriously suggest that somehow the civil liberties of the people of Queensland are better guaranteed by the Government of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  than they would be by a government led by  Mr Whitlam  or  Mr Fraser. 
As  Senator Missen  has invited it, I turn, as a Victorian senator, to my own State of Victoria to examine the proposition that somehow State governments in their administration have provided better services and conditions for the people of their States and have fulfilled what Walter Lippmann calls 'the public philosophy' better than a government in Canberra. The people of Victoria will be asked to consider these questions in a State election to be held on 21 March of this year. They will be asked to vote on matters specifically within the sphere of the State Government's responsibility in Victoria. The Liberal Party has been in government in Victoria for 20 years.  Senator Missen  is well informed on the Victorian State Government scene and will correct me if I am wrong about any of these facts. I do not retreat from the fact that those 20 years of Liberal government have been 20 years of growth, development and change in Victoria. The Government over which  Mr Hamer  presides was responsible for a number of attacks on the Federal Labor Government last year and the year before. It delayed the implementation of Medibank in Victoria at a cost to the Victorian people. More particularly, it criticised the Federal Labor Government because there was a 3 per cent increase in the Commonwealth Public Service last year. In the same year as the Commonwealth Public Service increased by 3 per cent the Victorian Public Service increased by 10 per cent. What benefit have the people of Victoria received from that vast increase in the size of its Public Service at a time when the Victorian Government was criticising a Federal Labor Government over the expansion of its Public Service. 
As I speak now, thousands of Melbourne motorists will be jammed in traffic jams, and they will be in that situation simply because Melbourne has one of the worst public transport systems of any city of that size in the world. While the Liberal Party is complaining about unemployment in Australia the Victorian Railways complain about being undermanned and last week people in the suburb of Eltham were being brought to the city by the Victorian Railways in taxis because the railway could not provide the services. 
It is not a question of them all getting ill in one day. The illness has been going on for 20 years of Liberal Government and it is in that period that the public transport system has got into the condition in which it is now. If somebody wants to buy a block of land in my State of Vic - 
I am quite happy to assist with that. After all, this is a States House is it not? If somebody wants to buy a block of land in Victoria it will cost $14,000 to $16,000 if it is anywhere within 15 miles of the city. A similar block of land within the same distance of the city in South Australia can be bought for $6,000. That is a matter of concern to the people of Victoria and it results from the administration of that State by the Hamer Government. It results in part from that Government's delay in implementing the Federal Labor Government's land commission program. On the subject of education in Victoria I need say little except to refer honourable senators to the annual headlines in the newspapers, which  Senator Missen  could write. Headlines such as '8000 children this year cannot get into schools', as  Senator Missen  knows, have occurred every year for the past 6 years and they are still occurring. Nothing is being done about it. I turn to the area of health and the care of aged persons in Victoria. Aged persons cannot get into hospitals to receive appropriate care. Psychiatrists in Victoria are now on strike because the State Minister for Health will not talk to them. That was the position as reported in this morning's  Age.  Senator Missen  might have more up-to-date information on that matter. Those are the sorts of problems which are occurring under the administration of a State Government and which are examples of the fact that Australia does not get good government from the States and that Fraserology and the implications of it are disastrous in terms of political management in this country. 
It has been a source of aspiration and pride for thousands of people in Melbourne that they have a home by Port Phillip Bay and are able to enjoy the recreational facilities which they hoped, when they moved there, would be provided by their proximity to the Bay. The best headline the State Liberal Government has had in any of the Melbourne newspapers in relation to Port Phillip Bay in the past 3 months is: 'Swimming in filth does not hurt you, says expert'. We now have a Federal Government which talks about returning issues of the environment to the States. Anybody who lives near Port Phillip Bay, anybody who has to travel by Melbourne transport, anybody who lives in the Dandenongs or anybody who lives in the Westernport region knows, if he thinks about it, that the idea of there being no Federal influence in what takes place in his area environmentally and the matter being left to the State Government is absolute rubbish as a political proposition 
There is a variety of reasons. I shall tell the honourable senator one reason.  Mr Hamer  is a nice chap and people often like nice chaps; but nice chaps do not always deliver. In 20 years in government in Victoria the Liberal Party has not delivered in respect of all sorts of services which are basic to members of the community and to the welfare of the society in which they live. In the past 20 years of Liberal Government many changes have taken place; but in the area of public expenditure, in the area of public responsibility accepted by both the Liberal Party and the Labor Partymatters such as transport, education, health, care of old persons, the environment and so on- there has been really nothing which anybody, I believe, could report with pride as a matter of political management. I raise these matters because the people of Victoria- I hope some of them will be listening to the broadcast of these proceedings now- will have to make up their minds about them. 
-Senator Cotton says that many people in Victoria will be sitting in their cars now in traffic jams because the public transport system in Melbourne is no good. That is what will be happening in Melbourne now. People listening to the broadcast of this debate should realise that they are sitting in their cars in traffic jams because the State Government of Victoria is incapable of delivering, and that  Mr Fraser  and his Government will load that State Government with more responsibilities than it has been able to fulfil in the last 20 years. That is surely a horrifying thought which the voters of Victoria ought to think about on 20 March. 
As I said earlier in my speech- I also said it some 20 months ago in my maiden speech in the Senate- I believe that the most important issue which confronts any government in any democracy in the 1970s is the capacity to understand and manage the sorts of changes which are taking place in our society and in the world at large. I do not believe that there is anything in the 
Governor-General's Speech which in any way indicates that the author of that Speech, whoever it may have been, has either the imagination or the capacity to manage the sorts of changes with which our country is confronted. One of the solutions put forward in the face of that incapacity is to say: 'Well, look, we will opt out of these things. We will give them back to the States. We will opt out of them and we will not pursue our responsibilities as a national government in regard to these things. We will give them back to the States.' 
The point of my dissertation about what has happened in the State of Victoria in the last 20 years and what is happening now is simply to raise this question in the interests of managing change in Australia as a nation in the 1970s: Is it wise to accept uncritically the view that these things would be better handled by State governments which have a shoddy record of performance by any standards? This is what I most fear about the symbolism of your wig,  Mr President.  I fear that the direction in which change will be managed is the direction which is suggested in point 4 on page 2 of the Governor-General's Speech, that is, to go back to a situation of abdication of national responsibility as a government and to return those responsibilities to State governments which, I believe, have neither the capacity, the imagination nor indeed the necessary structures to carry out the task in the interests of the Australian people. For those reasons I raise these criticisms of the address made by the Governor-General. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Has the Government any means of checking a statement made by the leader of the UDT that 60 000 people have been killed in East Timor? Can the Government confirm or deny the accuracy of that report? What means of communication has the Government with East Timor? Further, following the seizure of a radio in Darwin on 24 January of this year, was an application made by a  Mr Neilley  in Darwin for a radio licence in order that he might receive messages from East Timor? If so, what has happened to that application? Is it within the Minister's discretion to grant or refuse such an application? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I refer first of all the statement by the Prime Minister that the calling-in of the diaries of the Commonwealth Police Officers who escorted the present Leader of the Opposition last December was not a matter for the Government. As a former Attorney-General, does the Minister regard that statement as being a proper expression of the notion of ministerial responsibility? In view of the Commonwealth Police regulations, will the Minister inform the Senate whether any statement has been given by the Commonwealth Police as to whether they had any suspicion of offences committed upon which they could proceed in relation to the calling-in of those diaries? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I understand that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill is being taken jointly with the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  That is not my understanding at this stage. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- As there is no objection, we will adopt that course. 
-The Bills deal in their essential points with related matters, and I certainly commend that course. I shall deal first of all with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill 1976. The Opposition does not oppose it. In all but a couple of detailed respects it is identical with the legislation which was introduced in the House of Representatives in November of last year by the then Labor Government. The legislation has relevance at this time because of a great deal of community concern over the role of intelligence agencies. That concern has been expressed both here and in the United States of America. In the United States it led to the appointment of the Church Senate Committee. The relevations of that Committee have also been a source of great comment and public discussion. I believe that the thing which concerns people both in the United States and here is the belief that intelligence agencies have sometimes developed to a point where they have almost become the tail wagging the dog. A previous government established a body which has reached such proportions and whose ramifications and activities have been so great that in the United States the Government has in fact found itself embarrassed by the activities of that agency, namely, the Central Intelligence Agency. 
It is precisely because of this sort of factor that the Opposition looks forward to the publication of the report of  Mr Justice  Hope in relation to ASIO. It is also because of the degree of community concern about this matter that we look forward to that report. Insofar as the Bill now before the Senate is concerned, the Opposition has consistently taken the view that it is appropriate for a judge to be the Director-General of ASIO. I suppose, put in its simplest terms, it is felt that if one does have to have spooks in society, it is at least advisable that the spooks be supervised by a non-spook, that is to say a member of the judiciary. It is also felt, having regard to the traditional acceptance of the role of the judiciary in Australia as being an independent one, that the fact that the Director-General is a judge symbolises in some way the independence of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation from the government of the day. 
We hope that the symbolism of having a judge as Director-General will be reflected in the actions of the Director-General who will be appointed as a result of this legislation being passed. I believe that most members of the Opposition are confident that that will be the case. Of course, we are concerned that the judge in his role as Director-General should be assiduous in the protection of civil liberties as far as the organisation is concerned and in seeing that many public statements which are made by parliamentarians from both sides to the effect that an organisation such as ASIO should be constrained not to invade the civil liberties of citizens are carried out. The Australian Labor Party has always supported the appointment of a judge. In fact, the Chifley Government appointed a judge as Director-General of ASIO. Honourable senators will recall that even in the life of the last Government the then Attorney-General who raided ASIO headquarters was a prospective judge. So we have always taken the view that in some ways a judicial function should be exercised in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
There is one point on which there seems to be some difference between the Government and the Opposition and that is the question of whether the Director-General of ASIO should be responsible to the Prime Minister of the day or to the Attorney-General. It is true that the legislation introduced by the Labor Government last year made the Director-General responsible to the Prime Minister and that the present Bill is different in that the Director-General is responsible to the Attorney-General. 

 - Senator Missen always provokes me to say things which otherwise might have remained unsaid. I share the view that it is desirable that the Attorney-General should be the Minister to whom the Director-General of ASIO is responsible.  Senator Greenwood  is looking askance at me, feeling, with his acute sensitivity for some division of opinion within the Opposition, that he has detected something. I thought what I said was quite clear. I take the view that the Attorney-General is the responsible officer to whom the Director-General should be accountable. I think it is probably particularly desirable when that fact is coupled with the fact that the Director-General is to be a judge. As I have said,  Senator Missen  provoked me. I am surprised that he did so because I would have thought that the conduct of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to recent inquiries into the movements of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had shown that he is not a fit person to understand or appreciate - 
I understand  Senator Withers'  interest in money, but the point I am trying to make is quite a serious one. In the last few days we have seen an example of the Prime Minister saying that the Government has no responsibility for the orders which have been given to the Commonwealth Police officers in connection with returning their diaries to their superior officer. If the Prime Minister has no feeling of responsibility about that it seems to me that he does not understand the notion of ministerial responsibility and that it is more particularly appropriate that this matter of responsibility to a member of the Parliament and the Cabinet should be to the Attorney-General rather than to the Prime Minister. In saying that I am mindful also of the fact that other activities about which members of the Australian Labor Party have complained were, in fact, authorised by the Attorney-General- and properly so if he thinks in his discretion that that was the appropriate course to take. I make no value judgment about what he has done. I merely say that he is the responsible Cabinet Minister to do that if it is decided that it should be done. 
I wish to speak very briefly about the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The purpose of that Bill was most eloquently described in the last paragraph of  Senator Greenwood's  scintillating second reading speech, on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, which states:   . . the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, provides for an increase of one in the number of judges in the Australian Industrial Court so that the Court will consist of a Chief Judge and ten other judges. This will allow the Court to operate if necessary at its present strength during the period of  Mr Justice  Woodward 's appointment with ASIO. 
In connection with that statement I invite the Government to look quite seriously- I am not making any Party comment when I say this- at the way in which the Australian Industrial Court is currently operating and, to use  Senator Greenwood's  expression, 'its present strength'. The present strength of the Australian Industrial Court has been numerically described as being ten, but if one examines the actual strength of the court one will see that the bulk of the industrial work is in fact being done by two superannuated Liberal Party Cabinet Ministers and one other judge who can best be described as being of mature age and that the other judges of the court are most frequently used in various other capacities and jurisdictions- in inquiries of various kinds, such as the inquiry into the maritime industry, in work as judges of the Supreme Courts of the Territories and, indeed, in restrictive trade practices work. 
Since the boilermakers' case in 1956 the role of the Australian Industrial Court, having originally been quite clearly denned, has changed very considerably. That court has now become something of a catch-all court for all sorts of miscellaneous jurisdictions. I put it to the Government, being as it is in a position to do something about this matter, that it should very seriously consider the implications of this situation. We touched on this aspect in the Senate last year when we were debating the Superior Court of Australia Bill. One of the results of that dissipation of the court's activities into various areas has been that there has been a marked decline in the confidence of practitioners in the industrial relations field in the activities of the court and the particular work in respect of which it was originally established. 
One welcomes in some degree the newspaper reports of this morning that the decision in the boilermakers' case has, I understand, on the basis of submissions from the Commonwealth Government, again come under some criticism in the High Court of Australia. Over the years the Industrial Court has developed- first of all in perhaps a very rigid sort of way- a great number of unnecessary legalisms in the industrial jurisdiction and there is growing concern about the practice and the strength of the court, if I can use that expression which  Senator Greenwood  used, amongst those people concerned with industrial relations. Let me illustrate the sort of point I have in mind. It seems that the court, perhaps with the wisdom of great maturity which most of the judges have or for some other reasons, has been taking upon itself in recent years some quite unusual criteria for determining matters in the industrial jurisdiction. I refer, for example, to the judgment of that court in the hospital employees' case of 27 June 1975. In the course of that judgment the court made a comment about the function of evidence in the Australian Industrial Court. It said: 
After several such objections had been taken and dealt with on their merits, the court indicated a general view that the ordinary rules as to the leading of evidence should not be too strictly applied in cases such as these. 
It was in 1975- some 20 years after the boilermakers' case- that this new-found discretion developed in the minds of the judges of the court. The judgment continues: 
Although in form these are actions between named parties, in substance they involve an investigation into the good government of the organisation. In other words the court has in such cases an underlying duty to get to the heart of the matters before it. At the same time it must endeavour to do justice according to law as between the immediate parties. 
The court there sees- in its own judgment- a dichotomy between doing justice and what it calls getting to the heart of the matter by abandoning to some degree the normal rules of evidence. 
-That was a joint judgment. The point I make about that sort of comment is that if a court which seeks the respect and the confidence of the parties involved in industrial relations and, more particularly, the respect and confidence of the trade union movement, which, by virtue of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, is under the general supervision of that court in relation to its rules, conduct and so on, makes comments like that in judgments which reflect perhaps inquisitiveness on behalf of the court or perhaps an onrush of senility, then there can be no such confidence. I put it to  Senator Greenwood  that the Government should be very careful to ensure that it is just not sufficient by this legislation to talk about the strength of the Australian Industrial Court as being ten and that satisfying the matter. The Government should take every step possible to ensure that the word 'strength' used in relation to a court does not mean just its numerical strength, but it means its capacity to handle the problems with which it is confronted in a judicial manner and in a way which not only is fair but also seems to be fair and which earns the respect of the parties which appear in that jurisdiction. I very firmly believe - . . 
-I take a totally different view. The result may have been socially desirable, if that is what  Senator Greenwood's  question is directed at. I regard the result as socially desirable but judicially inept. It is a matter which should have close examination if  Senator Greenwood  is seriously concerned, as I believe he is, about the point which I am seeking to make. 
As I have said, the Opposition does not oppose either piece of legislation. We hope, in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation, that the concept of the independence of its Director-General will be maintained by this Government. We also urge the Government to consider the view that that is best maintained in the eyes of the members of the public and in the eyes of the people concerned with the matter by a judicial appointment to the job of DirectorGeneral. In regard to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, we take the opportunity to invite the Government to look very seriously at the current strength, both intellectual and otherwise, of the Industrial Court in order to ensure that that jurisdiction enjoys the respect which it should have if it is to solve some of the problems which it is cur.rently enjoined to solve. I refer not only to the jurisdiction with which it was originally invested in 1956 but also to the very complex jurisdiction which it now has as a result of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act following the  Moore v. Doyle  case and matters of that kind. Apart from those comments, I commend the legislation. 

 -Mr Chairman, I rise to speak very briefly to the clause which deals with the composition of the Australian Industrial Court. I wish to make clear something that I hoped I had made clear yesterday when speaking on this subject. The Court at this stage of" its history seems to suffer from a sad conjunction of declining capacity in the judges and an increasing work load. I know that  Senator Greenwood  has had an interest in this matter for a long time, but the point I was making, which I hope the Government will take seriously is that as industrial legislation becomes more complexand it has done so in the past few years- there will be a great need for a specialist industrial court which does not have its energies and talents, such as they are, dissipated by various other functions and by the taking on board of various other jurisdictions. I think that is a very important consideration, and it is something which should be borne in mind when one considers the strength of the Industrial Court. 
Contrary to what  Senator Harradine  has said, if he sees the matter in its historical perspective correctly, I think he would find- and I am sure that  Senator Greenwood  would agree with thisthat in all the arguments which were put forward in favour of the Superior Court and which were rejected by the Senate, not once was it suggested in the course of the debate that the Industrial Court was overworked, because it was not overworked at that period. Of course, there were many other arguments in favour of the Superior Court which were rejected by the Senate in its wisdom, based on numbers, in 1975. 

 - Senator Greenwood says that there were singularly few arguments offered. I seem to recall  Senator James  McClelland saying to me after that debate had concluded: 'If ever we won the battle, it was today. Maybe we lost the war.' Perhaps it was not a bad thing that we lost the war, but we won the battle. If  Senator Greenwood  has time to dip into the records of that debate again he might even agree with that view himself in a moment of benign charity which sometimes falls upon him. The point 1 wanted to take up briefly about the Superior Court was simply that there were no arguments advanced of the bizarre kind which  Senator Harradine  has suggested today. There was certainly no effort by the Attorney-General of the day to overload that court. As a matter of fact, the work load of the Industrial Court is largely dictated by the Chief Judge. That is to say, the pace at which the Court deals with the work load is largely dictated by the Chief Judge. Insofar as my experience in the Court over many years extends, I think that the work load has varied considerably from time to time. It has largely varied as a consequence of amendments made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and of the level of internecine faction fighting in trade unions, about which  Senator Harradine  would no doubt know more than 1. 1 make those comments briefly, and otherwise support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General and the Minister for Administrative Services. Upon whose authority were Commonwealth police sent to Singapore? Are Press reports concerning that visit insofar as the Commonwealth police interrogation of  Mr Sinclair  is concerned correct? What was the cost involved in sending the Commonwealth police in question to Singapore? Pursuant to the authority of what international agreement did they interrogate  Mr Sinclair  in Singapore? Was a ministerial decision made about this matter prior to their being sent to Singapore? 
-I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island; and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In asking the question I assume that the Minister has seen reports of heavy metal pollution in Mordialloc Creek in Victoria. It is heavy and dangerous by world standards as described by experts. I preface my question further by saying that the information was made available as a result of the findings of a research team from the University of Melbourne. I ask the Minister: Is it not surprising that the Environment Protection Authority of Victoria, which some years ago was charged with the function of preventing marine pollution, did not make this discovery? Does the Minister share the view that the Environment Protection Authority of Victoria is not performing its function adequately? In view of the fact that Mordialloc Creek flows into Port Phillip Bay which is, of course, connected with Bass Strait and in view of the High Court decision in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act case, I ask the Minister whether in his capacity as Federal Minister for Environment he would be prepared to assist the Hamer Government to deal with the problem of pollution in Mordialloc Creek? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. A similar Bill was, in fact, introduced under the previous Government in the House of Representatives on 15 October 1975 by the then Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who fulfilled a distinguished role in that office. The second reading speech which was delivered in this place by the present Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  is almost identical with the second reading speech which was made in the House of Representatives by the former Minister for Education. If I might gently chide the Department of Education, I feel that it has been rather remiss in that after some 5 months it was not able to alter even one word in the speech- apart from changing the word 'Australian' to the word  Commonwealth '. 
The importance of the Bill is to be found in the fact that there are about 1500 teachers in the Northern Territory and about 2200 teachers in the Australian Capital Territory who, as I understand it, have been recruited from the States of South Australia and New South Wales respectively. The basic effect of the first amendment which was referred to by the Minister in his second reading speech is to carry on the long service leave entitlement which the teachers would have had if they had remained in the service of their respective States. 
Another minor, but in some ways important, consequence of the passing of this Bill will be that the Commonwealth will assume responsibility for the provision of teachers of technical education in the Australian Capital Territory. The Opposition welcomes this move, as I believe the Government does, because it is indicative of an additional responsibility appropriately assumed in the Australian Capital Territory by the Commonwealth. I suppose that in a small way it leaves the way open for greater diversity of development of teaching in technical institutions throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. The only change in the Bill, as I have indicated, seems to be that the word 'Australian' has been changed to the word 'Commonwealth' in the title. During the last 3 years the word Commonwealth' was apparently out of favour in the titles of Bills passed by this Parliament. Speaking personally- although I think I speak for many members of the Party of which I am a member- the word 'Commonwealth' has connotations of which we in general approve. The word carries with it the suggestion that legislation of this Parliament should be for the good of the Australian people as a whole. The Opposition does not offer any objection even to that change which is recorded in the Minister's speech and in the title of the Bill. 

 -Mr President, the Senate is debating the AddressinReply and an amendment to that AddressinReply which deals with the question of the reinstitution of the Grants Commission for the purpose of local government and direct grants to local government. Before I deal with that matter in any detail I should congratulate  Senator Lajovic  on his very thoughtful speech which he concluded to the Senate a few moments ago. Personally, I found it refreshing that note of modesty and integrity which crept into his speech when he said that he had difficulty in pronouncing certain words in the English language. There are other honourable senators in this chamberSenator Wright and  Senator Withers  come to mind- who have the same sort of difficulty but never made the same sort of admission. It is most refreshing indeed to hear that sort of comment in the Senate. 
The purpose of the amendment is to raise the question of the importance of local government initiatives and the importance of the fact that local government is close to the people. The attitude of the party which I present in this debate was made quite clear in 1974 on this question of the role of local government in Australia. Let me quote that attitude: 
Under a variety of programs the Government has provided local government with the funds to undertake a range of activities previously inadequately carried out or totally neglected. 
There is a reference to the Australian Assistance Plan and other activities. The quotation continues: 
We deliberately have made and shall make local government a vehicle for our legislation on aged persons homes and hostels, sheltered employment, handicapped children, Meals on Wheels, home care and nursing, nursing homes, and homeless men and women. These are all activities which cannot be closely regulated from the centre and are best planned and implemented by local government working with local communities. They justify assistance from the nation's finances but not increases in rates. 
In order to illustrate some of the problems of local government which are foreshadowed in the statement which I just read and which have been discussed here in the Senate from time to time, I will refer to my own State of Victoria. I am a Victorian senator and, as such, my concern is with Victorian issues. It is appropriate that I should do so at this time because the problems which the people of Victoria face are live and real ones that are symptomatic of the problems which people face throughout Australia in considering the role of local government. 
In the State of Victoria the rates go up and up and up. People are asking themselves now: What is being given in return for these very big increases in rates which are occurring constantly in Victoria? On the other hand, municipal councils are under threat of bankruptcy because they just cannot increase their rates any further. They cannot increase their rates because they realise that in Victoria the dream of home ownership is becoming a nightmare with the level of rates which is presently being imposed. That is what this amendment to the Address-in-Reply is all about. 
Let me illustrate with some of the examples from my own State which have occurred in quite recent times. Last month, the Municipal Association of Victoria complained to the Victorian Government that Victorian councils could not finance road works any longer because insufficient funds were available from the State Government. The result of that state of affairs, it claimed, was a breakdown in services, and unemployment, in the municipal council area. The importance of municipal activity in road making and the importance of the role of local government in this respect cannot be over-estimated in a place like Victoria, when one considers the fact that the Victorian railways have almost completely broken down in terms of the delivery of service to the people of that State. More and more rail commuters, people who normally travel by rail from places like Frankston, Eltham and Dandenong, will be forced onto inadequate roads if municipal councils cannot provide the services. These are roads which are already crowded and which thousands of Melbourne commuters, sitting in cars at this point of time in traffic jams, know are crowded because of the inadequate services delivered by the Victorian Government. The Federal Labor Government offered to take over the Victorian Railways but  Mr Hamer  said: 'No, we do not want you to take over the Victorian Railways because the Victorian Railways are a State responsibility'. Let us look at how that responsibility is being carried out. Let  Mr Hamer  be reminded that if he accepts the responsibility on behalf of his Victorian Government he should discharge it. 
-I was speaking of the responsibility of local government and how that responsibility could not be discharged because of the inadequacy of finance made available to local government. I was saying that this was affected by the failure to provide other services, a matter totally inter-related to the subject before the Chair. What I was saying about the delivery of services is that if  Mr Hamer  accepts the responsibility for the Victorian Railways, let the responsibility lie where it belongs. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  There is no substance to the point of order. 
Last week in the municipal area of Frankston trains were one hour and 25 minutes late. Eighty peak services were cancelled. In Broadmeadows and Williamstown there were delays of 50 minutes, as was the case in the municipal district of Eltham. Additional responsibilities were imposed on local government there because the train services either broke down or were otherwise delayed. This is symbolised by the clocks on Flinders Street railway station which are still manually operated, as they were 70 years ago. A vast number of men are employed on the manual operation of clocks. It is symptomatic of what has happened on the Victorian transport scene in the last 20 years. It is because of the plight of local government in Victoria that the question of railways becomes relevant. 
Let me refer to some other examples of the problem which local government in Victoria faces. I refer to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, composed as it is of 53 commissioners from local government councils. Last week I was in the electorate of Diamond Valley, or rather the State electorate of Bundoora. In that electorate the complaint of the people is that it takes four or five years to get sewerage facilities and at greatly increasing cost each year. At the same time they are paying increasing local government rates. There is a totally inadequate system operating. There is a complete breakdown in the provision of sewerage facilities, and the aspirations of the people who live in suburbs like Bundoora and West Heidelberg for a better way of life, as  Senator Lajovic  put it, are being completely frustrated by this breakdown in the delivery of services by the Victorian Government. One council that comes to mind when talking about the plight of local government in Victoria is the Mordialloc City Council. The Mordialloc Council has a particular problem and should receive special attention from the Grants Commission because it has in its municipal area the most highly polluted creek in Australia. 
-I understand that, and that is the purpose of the amendment. As we saw it, the purpose of the operation of the Grants Commission was to enable it to look into the specific problems of local councils, such as the Mordialloc Council, which are not being solved at other levels of government. Last week there was published by  Dr David  Smith, a lecturer in marine chemistry at the University of Melbourne, a survey which showed that the level of toxicity in Mordialloc Creek is close to the levels which existed at Minamata in Japan where thousands of people died or were crippled as a result of heavy metal poisoning of the water supply. That matter was drawn to the attention of the people of the area as a result of the initiative of a  Mr Michael  Duffy who, coincidentally, is the Australian Labor Party candidate for the legislative province seat of Chelsea, that being an area which embraces Mordialloc, Dandenong, Noble Park and Frankston and a variety of other suburbs which are affected by the pollution in Mordialloc Creek. I saw in today's newspapers a report that the Minister for Environment in Victoria said that he will look into the matter, having had it put in front of his nose. The only advice I can give him is that he should not look into Mordialloc Creek without a peg over his nose because the level of pollution is such that it would be disastrous if he did so. 
The point I am making is that the Victorian Government is prepared to take some sort of initiative which will help people in local government areas only when it is stimulated to do so by the publication of this sort of information or the making of a challenge to the Government. The rest of the time it is content to sleep on these issues which are of vital importance to people in local government areas. Let me refer to one other example, the question of land prices in Victoria. Land prices in Victoria affect every home owner and home buyer and Victorians are now becoming aware that they pay nearly twice as much as do people in South Australia for an equivalent block of land. They pay nearly twice as much and at the same time they pay very high local government rates. Councils have to provide services to blocks of land and they are more and more finding that the costs of providing those services are becoming almost unbearable. This emphasises the importance of the Grants Commission in helping local councils to solve these very difficult problems which are very close to the people of the State which I represent in this Senate. 
The whole matter, of course, boils down to working out an answer to the question of who is responsible for what in politics. It is very easy to pass the poisoned ball from State to Federal politics or from Federal to local government politics or whatever it may be, but the fact is that these problems which vitally affect the lives of people in Victoria are continuing and little seems to be done about them. People will say that  Mr Hamer,  who may be charged with some responsibility in these matters, is a nice guy but the important thing about responsibility in politics is that sometimes in addition to having a nice guythey are good to have as neighbours to help you burn your rubbish and things like that- it is also important to have tough guys who are prepared to tackle the problems, who are prepared to tackle the problems of local government in Victoria, who are prepared to tackle the problems of health in Victoria, who are prepared to stand up to industrialists who are polluting Mordialloc Creek, who are prepared to sack the Health Minister who has presided over the most disastrous 3 years of the administration of the Victorian health policy and who are prepared to stand up on educational issues which affect the people of Victoria. It is this sort of responsibility which is not being acknowledged by the nice guy of Victorian politics. 
For that reason it is important that the Senate should seriously consider this amendment relating to the exercise of the functions of the Grants Commission and the examination of the concerns of local councils because if we have 3 tiers of government in this country and one, namely the State tier, is just not working, tremendous burdens and responsibilities are thrown on local government. Local government therefore should have assistance with these problems from the Grants Commission. I support the amendment which has been moved and commend it to the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m.  (It being 8 p.m., according to Order, Government Business, Order of the Day No. 2 was called on) 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $21 million, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7% of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or to any other Minister who accepts some degree of responsibility for the situation of the creative arts in Australia. Was the chairmanship of the Film and Television School terminated on 1 1 November 1975? Has the Government given consideration to appointing a new  chairman  of the Film and Television School? Further, what are the Government's intentions regarding the continuing independence of the Film and Television School? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Il relates to the Australian planter,  Mr Rex  Sydell, a former resident of East Timor. At present he is in Indonesia. He has recently alleged, amongst other things, that he was maltreated by Fretilin soldiers, that arms have been sent from Australia to Fretilin forces in East Timor and that Fretilin soldiers, and not Indonesian soldiers, were responsible for the death of 5 Australian journalists on 5 October last year. Will the Minister confirm that it is within the knowledge of the Government that  Mr Sydell  is and has been for 2 years a paid agent of the Indonesian Government? 
-The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has agreed with me- this agreement has the approval of his colleague, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)that  this Bill should be debated cognately with the other 4 Bills which are concerned with the situation of post-secondary education in Australia. These 5 important Bills have the approval of the Opposition. They were part of the former Government's program. The fact that they are taken together is helpful because it provides us with the opportunity to look at the spectrum of post-secondary education in the one debate. I shall refer briefly to the details of the Bills in passing. Before doing that I shall deal firstly with the point that the Bills provide funding for one calendar year, namely, 1976. In the educational scene 1976 is a special year because it is not part of a normal educational triennium in any of the 3 areas of post-secondary education with which we are concerned. Perhaps it is helpful to us all and fortunate for the present Government because it provides a period in which some assessment can be made about the future before the new triennium commences. 
I shall deal briefly with the main points of the 3 main Bills. The first of those Bills is the States Grants (Universities) Bill which provides grants which generally follow the recommendations of the Universities Commission. These funds are provided for recurrent expenditure on universities at the existing level and expenditure on commenced capital works which is to continue at the level of last year. The legislation also provides for some major new facilities in certain educational institutions. Details of those facilities are set out in schedule 5 of the Bill. The second important Bill- the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill- deals with the same matter in respect of colleges of advanced education. The sum of $296m is provided for recurrent expenditure, $56m for capital expenditure and $lm for administration to colleges of advanced education. The third Bill- the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Amendment Billperforms the same sort of function in relation to techncial education, except that in this area it carries the funding through from 30 June of this year until the end of the calendar year. 
The 2 other Bills- the States Grants (Universities) Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Amendment Bill- are basically concerned with the reimbursement of funds paid out of consolidated revenue by the States in the interregnum between 20 November last year and this year. I shall comment briefly on a couple of matters in relation to the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Amendment Bill. Again I say that the proposals are in accordance with the recommendations of the relevant commission. This is an area of significant progress to which I wish to refer later in the debate. The Opposition welcomes the legislation not only because it is in accordance with our program but also because the cognate debate aspect enables us to look at the situation across the spectrum. Perhaps it is time for a little speculation in the Senate. It is sometimes said in politics that it is never time to do anything. But I suppose we are visited with the prospect of 3 years of what is sometimes called 'stable Government'. In that situation, perhaps this is an opportune time to speculate a little in the area which is covered by these S Bills. 
I think it is important to emphasise when discussing education that we live in times of very rapid social and technological change when the need for planning for the future becomes more and more obvious and when the task becomes more and more difficult. The structure which we have to deal with that situation in the educational area is perhaps in its infancy in a sense and not proven, but perhaps it is a satisfactory structure if one examines some of the problems which are likely to arise. Of course there are recommendations in relation to each item in the legislation from the relevant commissions. It is the function of government to make decisions about those recommendations. 
As I indicated earlier we have a breathing space at the moment between trienniums in which the Government is in a unique position to make these sorts of decisions. In saying that I mention also that the Government cannot put education on the long finger as perhaps it has tended to do in relation to the suggested establishment of an inquiry into broadcasting and television or as it tended to do with ethnic radio or as it tended to with something like tax indexation. 
In the area of education decisions have to be made by the time of the Budget this year. At that time we will be able to assess the results of talk which went on last year from then Opposition spokesmen and from the now Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about resistence to what was called enforced equality in education. In August we will be able to see what that concept means, if it means anything, because decisions will have to be made by the time of the Budget in relation to recommendations which will be available to the Government from various commissions in the near future. I said that it is perhaps important to speculate about the role of education and the form which education administration is likely to take and which it should perhaps take in the next few years. Before I do that I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this legislation provides for grants to the States in order that they may carry out various educational functions. I make the point that one cannot under-estimate the role of a national Parliament and a national government in assessing educational needs and priorities. 
I hope we have gone past the time when these sorts of matters can be left to the States. Gradually in Australia, over the last 20 or 30 years, education has become a national obligation. The product of education constitutes part of the wealth of the nation, not the wealth of particular States. The alternative view to the proposition that society can progress either in a technological sense or in the sense of developing a better quality of life in the community is that this can be done by merely shelling out money to State governments without any attention to the question of national priorities. I hope that this view will not even be floated in the next few months, although one does hear noise of that kind during contributions to so called education debates. The great advantage of a national Parliament and national government is that it can plan national priorities. Where necessary it can seek uniformity of development and it can progress towards new standards. The roles of the respective commissions are very important in carrying out that function. The structure which, for better or for worse, has now been inflicted on the educational scene in the guise of various commissions is, perhaps at first glance, complex. But the structure of the commissions in each of the areas with which we are concerned and the tasks of those commissions have been to look at educational needs in various areas. 
I believe that this Government, and indeed any Government in the present time and in the immediate future, must be diligent to assess and to be constantly aware of what are the real needs of the community and not just the wishes of various education establishments in the community. There seems to me to be little doubt that there are entrenched education establishments in this community which, irrespective of the sorts of changes which might take place in this society, will continue to seek to remain as establishments. As I say irrespective of those changes there are education establishments which may be dealing with situations or purporting to deal with situations which are no longer real in terms of the goals and objectives of the sort of society in which we live. 
I will illustrate my point in relation to universities. One suspects, without knowing, that universities may already be training people in Australia for professions which will no longer exist in 5 or 10 years time. If that is true, surely it involves a critical analysis of the role of the Universities Commission and representations which are made to that Commission. The universities are, perhaps, at this stage a powerful and coddled section of this community. Only at the time of the last Budget I was made aware of this by academics from various universities who said to me: Look, whatever you do, think very hard about the money which is made available to universities in particular areas'. The reason why they said that was simply this: They were being told by their own university establishments that they should put on 6 senior lecturers in this or that subject. The comments made to me suggested that there was no need for 6 senior lecturers in the particular subjects concerned to be put on to a university establishment and, in any event, there were not 6 university lecturers of sufficient calibre for that purpose. The point I am trying to make is the very real danger of self-perpetuating education establishments, particularly in the university field, which are indeed contrary to what I believe to be the aims of the various commissions, the aims of the Opposition which I represent and, I believe, the aims of the present Government in its view of priorities which should be given in educational expenditure. 
I note that one of my colleagues in the House of Representatives in the debate on this matter made a passing reference to sabbatical leave in universities. There was a certain amount of  horreur,  if I may put it in that way, about his attitude to sabbatical leave. He revealed the origin of sabbatical leave in Australian universities. It was in the 1920s, perhaps, when Australian universities could not attract staff from overseas unless they were assured of a trip home every 6 or 7 years. There was also, of course, the fact that Australia was a very isolated country and it was desirable for Australian staff in universities to refresh themselves in some way or another academically, by taking leave overseas. I do not want to join in that sort of criticism of sabbatical leave but I do want to say that it is extraordinary, when we think about technological change and about social change in society, that sabbatical leave or the concept of sabbatical leave still remains an academic province only. We are not thinking in wider terms about a society in which each member of the work force perhaps has some sort of arrangement like that in his lifetime in order that he may indulge in retraining, further education, or whatever he wishes. 
I should like to make one or two comments about colleges of advanced education and the legislation relating to those bodies. It does seem to me that while there has been a proliferation of colleges of advanced education in Australia and while there has been a continuing sort of status battle between colleges of advanced education and universities and between one college of advanced education and another, the role of colleges of advanced education has been, by no means, defined at this time. The sort of question which we should perhaps properly be asking when considering this type of legislation is this: What sort of courses are colleges of advanced education providing and what sort of courses should they be providing? Should they be providing short courses in specialist disciplines? Should they be related more intimately to the community than are universities? Should they be research institutions or should they provide a general education, particularly for those who return to full time education or part time education on an involved basis later in their lifetime? 
These questions, I think, are important when this Parliament is making substantial grants to the States for the purpose of financing colleges of advanced education. We are making those grants, generally speaking, as an act of faith believing that all educational institutions are somehow in some particular way  per se  worthy institutions and  per se  fulfilling a worthy purpose in society. I query those assumptions. I am concerned that in this Parliament, at least, there should be a continuing debate about the role of these colleges of advanced education and some attempt to define their purposes and what thenfunctions should be. 
The third area we are discussing is that of technical education. There has been an enormous growth in enrolments in this field since the beginning of 1974. 1 think there have been 1 14 000 additional enrolments of students at technical colleges since the beginning of 1974. Whether this is fulfilling a need or not, I frankly do not know. I suspect that it is. I suspect that the role of technical education in Australian society should and must become more and more important and, at the same time, more and more flexible in the types and variety of disciplines which it offers in the next decade. I believe that to be so for reasons which I want to discuss in the next few minutes. I want to discuss them under the guise of indulging in a little speculation about the sort of society we might be living in in the next 10 years or so and thereafter, and the sort of effect that might have on our thinking about education and our educational priorities. 
I think it is perhaps trite sociology to say that we are moving into what has been called the post-industrial society. It seems to me that in that sort of society there will be fewer jobs for traditional professions. I do not think anybody is safe now in saying to his 10-year old son: 'Yes, I will put you through the university and make you into a lawyer or a doctor and you will be rich like your daddy'. I do not think there is any safety in any man saying that in 1976 to a son of 10 years of age. I think that is true of a variety of professions. I certainly think that is true of a great variety of jobs in manufacturing industry which, I believe, will disappear in 10 or 15 years time. I say disappear in the sense of change. Perhaps they will be replaced by technological methods, automation and so on. I think that the consequences of that are that there will be available in service industries more jobs of a very different kind to the jobs for which people are now being trained in educational institutions. These factors, I believe, will be important in assessing educational needs and demands. 
There will be less demand for universities. I hate to use the term, but I believe that universities will become more elitist rather than less elitist as they have tended to become over the past 20 or 30 years. I believe that universities will be more concerned with the research role and less concerned with training practitioners in the various arts and professions. There will be more demand for diverse special skills which can be attained only by technical education rather than by the sort of education which is offered now by universities. Because of these things I believe that the capacity of educational institutions to adapt to change is very important. 
Secondly, quite apart from the sort of social changes which might take place, we are going to be faced with very significant technological changes. This will mean, of course, that there will be a much greater need for retraining than has existed before. People in the second half of this century will change jobs perhaps three or four times in a lifetime. In the manpower sense, I believe there will be a great move against what the Marxists call 'alienation' in employment but which perhaps can be described in more contemporary terms as the sense of divorcing education from any involvement in a work situation of a constructive and fulfilling kind. What I am really suggesting is that factors which may now be compartmentalised into the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations are going to have a significant bearing in the future on the matters which are now departmentalised into the Department presided over by  Senator Carrick,  the Department of Education. I think that these factors are likely to become very important in the next few years. 
The third factor I want to mention is that of increasing leisure and continued aspirations and demands for a better quality of life. I think that that will be reflected in the educational sphere in there being more need for ongoing or continuing education throughout one's lifetime. There will be an aspiration which is perhaps expressed in the words of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the policy speech which he made last year when he talked about 'the need to create alternative life styles'. 'Alternative life styles' is a rather spooky sort of phrase and carries with it, I think, the suggestion that those life styles will be fulfilled in various ways. Of course, one of the ways in which they will have to be fulfilled is by education. One wonders particularly about the role of colleges of advanced education and institutions of that kind in providing that way of using increased leisure time, in providing a way of improving the quality of life and in providing a way of enriching the human personality which is what people consider they are doing in seeking to continue their education right throughout their life in a variety of ways. 
I think that we must consider the fact that we have lived for too long in a society which has not been very flexible and in which there has been a great desire to put people into slots. We see a life pattern of birth, school, work, retirement and death, a life style which that great poet, W. H. Auden, epitomised in the line: 'Sit on your arse for 40 years and hang your hat on a pension'. I think that that quotation very aptly illustrates the style in which we have tended to live in the first half of this century. I think it is a style which is totally inapplicable and totally unlikely to continue in the latter half of this century. The need which it seems to me that educationalists will have to fulfil and which governments will have to fulfil is that of increasing options for people at all stages of their lives. For the purpose of this debate, I have in mind increasing options in terms of educational opportunities of a diverse kind beyond the sorts of opportunities which have been made available to people in the past. 
I believe that it is important for us to try to make judgments about these sorts of things. I say in all humility that I believe that the present Government will make wrong judgments about some of these things and I am quite sure that if we were in government we would make wrong judgments about some of them too because they are terribly difficult issues on which to make judgments. But I put it to the Senate that in making those judgments it is very important that we understand and maintain the importance of a national responsibility- the importance of the assessment of national priorities as distinct from parochial priorities- and that we do not try to evade this responsibility in planning, coordinating and looking to the future as providing a richer educational opportunity for all. The calendar year of 1976 is, as I said, an interregnum period and  Senator Carrick  will acknowledge that the real sparks will fly at a later stage this year. But at this stage I wanted to introduce this note and take the opportunity of speculating a little about educational goals and priorities. Having done so, I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. First of all, I tell him, if I may, that on 24 March 1976 the Minister whom he represents in this place stated that 85 per cent local ownership was required in any uranium development, and in a Press release dated 31 March 1976 the Treasurer announced that 70 per cent local ownership would be required. Can the Minister indicate to the Parliament who in fact is the spokesman on the uranium industry and which of those 2 statements is correct? 
asked the Minister representing iiic Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the amount of Australian economic assistance to Indonesia in each year since 1971-72 and including that year. 
What was the amount of (a) Australian exports to Indonesia and (b) Indonesian exports to Australia in each year since 1 97 1 -72 and including that year. 
Will the Minister table foreign policy recommendations and documents regarding Australian policy on East Timor made since 1972. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and 
Community Development. I refer to the answer which he just gave to  Senator Baume  relating to the Glebe lands. In that answer he said that the development ofthe Glebe area would depend on the finance available. I ask the Minister: Does he see that there are perhaps certain inconsistencies in his own portmanteau portfolio in regard to these matters and that it is not merely a question of provision of land for housing but also a question of the restoration and preservation of historic areas of Sydney and indeed of Australia? Does he agree that if money is not spent on these areas in the next few years the whole purpose of the Australian Heritage Commission and the whole purpose of the thrust to restore and maintain historic spots will be lost? Has he considered those matters and what are the current plans for the Australian Heritage Commission? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It again refers to an answer that he gave to a previous question, this time addressed to him by  Senator Melzer  who asked him about unemployment.  Senator Greenwood  made the point, as I understood it, that there was a low level of unemployment during the last period of Liberal-Country Party Government. I take it that the view of the honourable senator is that that was due to some genius on the part of the Liberal-Country Party Government and had nothing to do with world economic conditions during that period. I ask the Minister whether he is saying in answer to that question that as a result of a return to LiberalNational Country Party Government there will not be in this country a level of unemployment above 2 per cent in the next 3 years, 4 years or 5 years. 
Or in the next 3 years or 6 years, if that be the case. 
I rise to speak very briefly on this Bill having only a minute ago acquired a copy of it from my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  for which I am extremely grateful. As has been indicated, the Opposition supports this legislation which was put forward in fact at the time of the Labor Government but did not reach the Senate. I was able to see some of the objectives of the Foundation which appear in clause 5 of the Bill- indeed,  Senator Sim  has adverted to a number of thoseparticularly the question of cultural exchange and the importance, as the honourable senator put it, of understanding the traditions and culture of Japan. 
Let me put briefly to the Senate the view that, while I share  Senator Sim's  enthusiasm for this endeavour, I think we ought to be fairly modest about the level of attainment which we can hope for in studying and understanding Japanese history and culture. What one in all reality suspects is behind the establishment of this Foundation is the very real fact that since 1971 Japan has become Australia's most significant trading partner. I find it rather sordid to think that the importance of understanding and appreciating a nation's culture should be appended, as it were, to the importance which we attach to trade with that country. 
The fact ofthe matter is that in spite of all our good endeavours of this kind we must realise for example that in the last 20 years in this country where there has been much stress in public noises and utterances placed on the importance of learning Asian languages, our level of achievement in this area is indeed very low. In spite of that emphasis which people like yourself,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I believe have been associated with over a number of years, we still concentrate very largely in most educational institutions on the study of European languages. The incidence of study of the Japanese language in the majority of secondary schools in Australia and indeed in Australian universities is extremely low. 
I am quite unable to say. 
-It looks as if I will have to come back into the Senate after the sitting is suspended for lunch to hear this revealed truth from  Senator Baume.  But if one wanders in an impressionistic sense through Australian schools and asks how many children are learning the Japanese language or its history and culture, there is a massive void.  Senator Baume  will statistically reveal the extent of that void when the Senate resumes this afternoon, I have no doubt. 
What I am saying is this: Let us look at the reality of this Bill. We have been a significant trading partner with Japan since 1 97 1 . We have now arrived at the situation where we feel we should establish the Australia-Japan Foundation because perhaps it will help us in our trade relations if we understand also something about the culture and history of Japan. I think that that is really the truth of the situation. We should be modest in our aspirations in this regard. I have mentioned the incidence of Japanese language teaching in Australia. I wish also to touch on another aspect of the understanding of Australians that was raised by  Senator Sim. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was talking about the incidence of Japanese language study in Australia and had given an impressionistic view of it- a broad sweep, as it were. I understand that later  Senator Baume  is to come in with what might be described by the French as a pointillist approach. That is an expression which  Senator Baume  will understand but not  Senator Withers,  who is smiling. In musical terms I suppose it is the difference between a symphonic view and a pizzicato view, and  Senator Baume  I understand will give the latter. It is a pity that I was interrupted when in full flight on this issue. I had got to the point of concluding the observations I had to make about language study and was about to discuss the influence of Japanese culture in Australia to date. I suppose it can be said that I was in full flight because certain things from my own experience came back to me. I thought of the reading that one did as a student in Australia about Japanese history and culture. This really seemed to turn on the Russo-Japanese war and a study of the cinematographic merit of the film  The Seven Samurias  and thinks of that kind. 
Since the War I suppose things have changed a lot in that regard and there is a certain commercial aspect of Japanese culture in Australia which reflects itself in the sale of bonsai trees and Japanese flower arrangements and items of that kind. The point I am seeking to make is that all these things have made a very superficial impact on Austraiian society and if our aspirations in relation to an understanding and appreciation of Japanese history and culture are as grandiose as the objectives of this Bill, as set out in clause 5, we are bound to be disappointed. I do not think that those objectives will be achieved and we are kidding ourselves if we expect that they will eventuate in Australia in the next 2 decades at least. The reason why they will not eventuate is that it is not in the natural order of things, if I may use an expression which probably was more current in medieval times than now, that Australians as a people should find the Japanese culture particularly fascinating and should find the study of the Japanese language particularly rewarding. This is because basically we are in origin a European people and should not try to run away from that fact by glossing it over with an Australia-Japan Foundation with falsely inflated aspirations. 

 Senator Sim made some comments about what he felt we might learn from Japan. He referred particularly to the fact that the Japanese people work hard and have a unity of purpose in what they are doing. These are virtues we often hear expounded as appropriate remedies for the malaise which exists in Australia at present, but there is an important cultural and historical difference between the development of Japanese society and the development of our society which makes a hankering for those national virtues in a place like Australia a remote fantasy. I do not think we should follow that path of endeavour. What we might learn from the Japanese is something which we seem very slow to learn in Australia, that is, that the secret of industrial success lies largely in the mastery of technology and industrial design. In some ways we tended to laugh a bit after the war as the Japanese sought, to a large degree by copying western European examples, to familiarise themselves with and become expert in these matters. They succeeded and we still find ourselves a remote European outpost without any real mastery of technology, without any real mastery of industrial design, and still a totally derivative society. Perhaps that approach in the Japanese is something we can seek to emulate. 
Also there goes with it something which we can seek to avoid, that is, the dreadful consequences of rapid industrialisation which Japan has suffered. It is the result of deciding that economic growth is the mos.t important factor in human endeavour. The Japanese decided that it was and we decided that it was some 20 years ago. Japan succeeded; I do not believe that we did. However, the consequence of Japan's success is that the Japanese society has become increasingly more unacceptable in terms of the quality of life and the environmental conditions in which the Japanese people live. We have seen the consequences of that rapid industrialisation, whatever Japan's technological achievements are, as being appalling pollution, congestion in major cities and matters of that kind which we could well make every effort to avoid in this country. 
What I am trying to say is that from the wisdom derived from experience in certain areas by the Japanese we can in turn derive some wisdom. The Australia- Japan Foundation may well be a medium for doing this. If it is felt, by any people whose basic motivations are to give a cultural gloss to what is essentially a rather sordid trade relationship, that by establishing this Foundation we can really help to interest Australian people in a significant way or Japanese people in a significant way in the respective cultures of the 2 countries, we make a very grave mistake. Our aspirations would be far bigger than the possibilities of their achievement. I believe that to be a very important qualification of the fine purposes envisaged in the functions of the Foundation as they are set out in clause 5 of the Bill. 
The other point I want to make about this Foundation is that whatever happens in terms of Australian-Japanese cultural relations and matters of that kind there are certain political realities which exist and which will affect relationships between the 2 countries. In the last couple of days we have seen the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  expressing the same sort of view as a party leader in Japan about what is sometimes called the area of resources diplomacy. In this morning's Press,  Mr Nakao,  a member of the Liberal Party in Japan and a director of the Japanese Government's Standing Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, is reported as saying that he agrees entirely with  Mr Anthony's  comments that if Australia's resources are not made available to countries like Japan-  Mr Nakao  went on to mention Korea and China as well- they will be taken from us in the years to come. However much past history might support that view I would have thought it was a very dangerous line for politicians of the National Country Party in Australia or of the Liberal Party in Japan to be pursuing as a public exercise.  Mr Anthony  has in fact attacked the Australian Press today for reporting his speech on this matter. In fact he attacked the Press for reporting what he said. He has tried to pass the responsibility for this quite extraordinary view of the role of the Minister for National Resources to the Press in Australia for reporting what he said. 
The basic understanding of the sale of uranium and other minerals to Japan, especially uranium, has been exclusively on the basis that Japan would not sign the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. The gentleman I mentioned earlier,  Mr Nakao,  is today reported as expressing the view that Japan ought to sign that treaty and that it ought to arm itself again because in the future it will be necessary for Japan to pursue what we now euphemistically call resources diplomacy by armed means. The point I seek to make here again is that in the time of the last Government we had a very sound understanding with the Japanese Government and Japanese industrialists in relation to the purchase of Australian mineral resources. 
-What is the name of that fellow who has a mouth like an 'O' and a wheelbarrow full of surprises? If the honourable senator keeps his mouth open like an 'O' I will drop a couple of surprises in it for him. I was saying that a good relationship existed between the last Government and the Japanese Government and between the last Government and Japanese industrialists. 
It is a waste of my time and vocal chords to say a thing 3 times for  Senator Missen.  I will just say it twice. The evidence to support that is contained in a letter from  Mr Inayama, Chairman  of the Board of Directors of the Nippon Steel Corporation, dated 4 July 1975, to the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor. Mr Inayama  by the way is the principal purchaser of coal and other requirements for the steel industry in Japan on behalf of the consortium of Japanese steel industries. He refers to the requirements of the Japanese industry over a number of years and concludes with this sentence: 
We also appreciate your assurances of continuity of supplies and we look upon your country as the principal and reliable source of our requirements. 
-That is something I will come to in a moment. 
-I am quite happy to table the letter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the amount of military aid appropriated for Indonesia in 1975-76. 
What equipment will be purchased in Australia with this aid appropriation. 
Is Indonesia permitted to purchase arms from other countries with funds provided from Australia. 
Has the Australian Government asked the Government of Indonesia if Australian provided arms and equipment have been used by Indonesian forces in East Timor. 
What conditions are imposed on the use of military aid supplied by Australia to Indonesia or purchased by Indonesia with Australian funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the amount of Australian military aid to Indonesia in each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974- 75 and 1975-76. 
What items of military equipment were purchased with Australian funds in each year since and including 1971-72. 
How many Indonesian armed services personnel have received training in Australia in each year since and including 1971-72. 
-I ask the Minister for Education a question arising from his last answer. Is the Minister saying that the fact that the student organisation referred to by  Senator Walters  has incorporated in its policies abortion on demand, as  Senator Walters  put it, is a result of a minority group of students taking over the organisation in question? Is that his view of what the student population of that university thinks about this matter? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the announcement made by the Minister on 13 April that the Government is proceeding with an inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting system to ensure 'that our broadcasting system ... is developed ... in a way which will best serve the needs of the Australian community'. In his statement of that date the Minister said: 
All interested parties, both in the public and private sectors, will be invited to make public submissions to the Department. These submissions should be made by 30 June 1976. Requests by organisations or individuals to submit confidential representations will be accepted. 
In view of that statement, I ask the Minister the following question: Who will be conducting the inquiry and what expertise do such persons have for assessing the needs of the Australian community in broadcasting? Who are the interested parties referred to in the Minister's statement who will be invited to make public submissions, and will they include representatives of consumers? Have any invitations been issued to interested parties and, if so, to what parties? If no invitations have yet been issued, will such invitations include public advertisements? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the publication of the March consumer price index figures and the Prime Minister's subsequent comment that economic recovery would depend a great deal on what the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided in its current hearing on wage indexation. I also refer to the comments made yesterday by members of the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission in which the Commonwealth Government's submissions were described, amongst other things, as selfcontradictory and superficial. I ask the Minister. Having regard to the constitutional function of the Arbitration Commission, is it considered responsible government to seek to make the Commission responsible for the confusion of the Government's economic policies? Secondly, does not the Government recognise its responsibilityas the previous Government did- to provide leadership by putting a considered and coherent submission to the Commission on wages policy? 
Surprisingly enough, my question also is addressed to the Minister for Education. Does the Government intend to adhere to the concept of defining particular schools as disadvantaged and positively providing the means for the enrichment of education in disadvantaged areas? If so, will he give an assurance that such definitions of the concept of disadvantaged will be determined only after analysis and advice from the Australian Schools Commission? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, relates to ethnic radio. Does the Minister agree that, consistent with Liberal Party policy, any form of government departmental control of a public broadcasting organisation is bad? If so, will he give an assurance that any government organisation to be involved in ethnic broadcasting will be given independence in its operation from any government department? 

 -Mr President, might I begin by congratulating  Senator Tehan  on some aspects of his speech, which I believe was truly appropriate to a house of review. I applaud many of the comments he made about the necessity for governments, either State or Federal, to give considerable countenance to the recommendations of an expert body such as the Schools Commission. I particularly commend the view he put that this Government should be guided by those opinions in its negotiations with State governments on matters provided for by this Bill. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  pointed out in his second reading speech the various aspects which are covered by this Bill and the fact that it is indeed part of a series of Bills, of which two at least have already been before the Senate, dealing with universities and colleges of advanced education. This Bill provides for the payment of a sum of more than $43 1 m to the States for the one-out year of 1 976 which is severed from the normal triennium to which we have been accustomed. The Minister noted a number of matters of importance in his second reading speech, but there are one or two which I am not quite clear about. Perhaps this is an appropriate time to mention them in order that the Minister might help the Senate, and me particularly, in relation to these sections of his speech. 
At page 1248 of  Hansard  the Minister said that this Bill is the product of the former Government and that future programs will be determined in the light of our appreciation of priorities affecting Australian schools. I do not understand the meaning of that sentence in terms of the legislation now before the Senate, which reflects a Schools Commission view of the priorities or needs appropriate to Australian schools. I am confused by that terminology, in view of the Minister's answers to questions in the Senate and in view of undertakings relating to the regard which the Government would have of the Schools Commission's view of priorities and needs. The second point in the Minister's second reading speech which confuses me is this statement: 
The Bill does however reflect our intention to depart from the recent trend towards centralism in the administration of schools. 
I seek the guidance of the Minister at a later stage on whether that is just a pious statement of ideology or where in particular the intention to which he referred is reflected in this legislation. For example, is it reflected in clause 7, which contains a new flexibility which was not present in legislation either of the former Labor Government or of the Liberal Government before that? Is that the section to which the Minister referred when he made the statement that the Bill reflects the Government's intention to depart from a trend towards centralism in the administration of schools? The Minister went on to say, perhaps by way of explanation: 
It is our aim to ensure, by consultation and co-operation with the States and other education authorities, that Commonwealth funds are made available in such a way as to reflect local priorities. 
I ask again whether that is a pious statement of intention or whether it is reflected in the Bill in any new way? 
Debate interrupted. 
-The Senate is debating a matter of urgency in relation to the situation in East Timor. The 4 points in the motion to which I wish to refer are: 
1 ) The military action of Indonesia and its consequent effects upon the Timorese people. 
The need for Indonesia to respond to the decisions of the United Nations. 
The denial of self-determination for the people of East Timor. 
The failure of the Australian Government to make a concerted effort to provide adequate communication with the people of East Timor and to provide appropriate humanitarian aid. 
Principally, I address myself to the last 2 paragraphs because there are certain assumptions in the speech of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack which suggest that he feels that the Australian Government has in fact done all it might have done in this difficult situation. Before I do that I make one or two comments about what seems to me to be the tragedy of the situation. Here we are in May 1 976 with an island on Australia 's doorstep where a war is going on. In the war there has been substantial evidence of civilian casualties of a high number, evidence of substantial starvation among the Timorese people and half a million people in a situation where there is not one doctor. There are no proper hospital facilities. The situation can be described in numerous ways in terms of detail but it is tragic in any human circumstance. 
The concern behind this motion stems from one simple fact and that is that throughout this situation which has been going on since 7 December last year the Australian Parliament has remained silent. It seems extraordinary to me that the Australian Parliament has remained silent because it is the Parliament of the people who have prided themselves over many years on the assistance which they have given in Bangladesh, Biafra, and in any place where there has been a humanitarian problem with which people of goodwill might be concerned. This is also true of Vietnam but, of course, in a different way. The same sort of situation is happening in East Timor. As I say, there has been this silence. There seems to me to be 2 reasons for the silence. Perhaps it stems from the quiet hope that the situation in East Timor will just disappear. Of course, the unfortunate fact is that it will not disappear. It will not be swept under the carpet. The 4 months of experience with the war which has been going on indicates that that is but a pious hope. The success of that pious wish that the situation in East Timor would go away depended very much on the immediate success without publicity of the Indonesian military operation in East Timor. Of course that has not happened. 
The second reason why the Parliament has been silent about the situation in East Timor is simply that from the beginning there has been a tendency to see it as an issue for political point scoring, particularly by extremists of the Left and the Right. I do not want to canvass this issue at the present time but it may be said that the Australian Labor Party Government in 1975 misinterpreted the situation in East Timor. Perhaps on the basis of a completely different set of facts, when compared with the ones which have existed since 7 December last year, the Government of the time made incorrect judgments. But be that as it may, what we are concerned about is May 1976 and the question of what the Parliament is now doing and what its deliberations are upon the situation which now exists. 
I referred to the political extremists who have spoken on this issue. I think it was in September last year that the now  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country  (Mr Anthony)  attempted to wish the whole thing away and to dismiss the East Timor problem on the basis that Fretilin was a communist organisation. People on the extreme left have put views about the situation in East Timor which seem to me to be extraordinarily inflammatory and not directed to the welfare of the East Timorese people. An article written by that professional exorcist of evil political spirits,  Mr B.  A. Santamaria, appeared in the  Australian  this week, in which he dealt with the East Timor problem on the same basis on which he has dealt with every problem in international affairs for some decade or so, and that is by saying simply that the whole matter can be divided into black and white, into goodies and baddies, and that there is no need to try to analyse in more detailed terms the exact situation with which we are confronted. 
One thing I should say about the attitude of the present Government is that it is no good trying to make political points out of any criticisms it might have of the conduct of the Australian Labor Party when in government in relation to this matter. The assumptions on which the present Government came to power and the circumstances in which it came to power in November 1975 carried with them the implicit promise that it would do better than the Labor Government did in respect of all these things. That promise in relation to Timor and in relation to many other matters has not, of course, been fulfilled. On the question of Timor there is, of course, a  real politik view  in international affairs. Grand design strategies are played by the dice men of international relations and the argument goes something like this: It is desirable in an area such as South East Asia that there not be small nation states; it is desirable from the point of view of Australia that we should be able to deal with our immediate neighbour, Indonesia, without the embarrassment of an independent state anywhere in between; it is desirable from the point of view of the whole region, having regard to a genuine desire, which I think is shared by all parties, for stability in the area, that there should not be any area in which any form of instability is allowed to arise. 
If I might say so, the  real politik  view- the view which I have just put, the grand design view- in relation to East Timor does run into certain other real difficulties. The real difficulties which that view runs into are the reality of the anticipations and the feeling and concern in the world-wide community for the principle of selfdetermination. No act of self-determinantion has been possible in East Timor, except of course during the period in which the Fretilin forces were in control following a civil war. We cannot make judgments about that civil war; we do not know enough about it, perhaps. But no act of self-determination has been allowed to take place. That is the reality and it is something which qualifies any other judgments which we might seek to make. 
The motion which is before us contains 4 points and I want briefly to address remarks to each of those points. The first concerns the matter of military action by Indonesia, which really amounts to a son of admirable form of gunboat diplomacy. I use the expression 'admirable' because it used to be regarded as admirable in colonial days. But the present situation in East Timor is not really distinguishable from the gunboat diplomacy of days gone by; Indonesia seeks a military solution to a difficult problem. Twice the United Nations has called for the withdrawal of Indonesian military forces in East Timor and twice that call has not been responded to. That is the second point that concerns us in the motion which is before us. I believe that we must as an Australian Parliament be diligent to try to maintain good relations with Indonesia, but this cannot be done at any price, and we must surely continually put pressure on Indonesia to observe the sort of international standards that we should like to see observed. 
I believe that the present Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock),  in speeches made in Jakarta during his recent visit, has shown on the face of it every sign of trying to indicate very strongly to Indonesia his view that the Australian people do not have any favourable view of what has happened in East Timor following military intervention by Indonesia. But one wonders what really is going on behind the rhetoric of the present Minister for Foreign Affairs. One wonders and thinks about the expression that 'a wink is as good as a nod' and wonders how many winks have been given. That leads me to the third and fourth points in the motion which is before us. The behaviour of the Australian Government just does not match up with the speeches which the Foreign Minister made in Jakarta. It is not as though people in this Parliament have not been concerned about this issue for some time.  Senator Gietzelt  and I have asked a number of questions about it in the Senate. I refer the Senate to two of those questions. On 24 February 1976 I asked the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate whether the Government supported the sending of a United Nations mission to East Timor. I asked further: 
Will it co-operate with the sending of such a mission to East Timor? Further, has the Government made any positive attempts to send either medical or food supplies to people in the unoccupied areas of East Timor? 

 Senator Withers replied: 
I thought the record of the Government and of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this matter was quite clear. As I understand it my colleague in the other place, the Honourable Andrew Peacock, has said a number of times that we support the intervention of the United Nations in an attempt to bring this situation to a peaceful settlement. 
I then stated: 
The question relates to what he has done, not to what he has said. 

 Senator Withers went on: 
It is all very well for the honourable senator to interject, but at least the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been doing things and not just talking about them. I do not think anybody in this Parliament would accuse the present Minister for Foreign Affairs of not working. At least he has stayed in Australia and worked and has not gone gallivanting around the world, week in, week out, like his predecessor in the previous Government. 
So the answer continues. Of course that may be a smart political point but it is no answer to a question which was raised in this Parliament on 24 February. Again, on 26 February, I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question about the seizure on 24 January of a radio in Darwin which was in communication with East Timor. The answer given again had that smart quality which we are used to hearing in answers given by the Leader of the Government in this place. The latter part of the answer went as follows: 
The honourable senator also inquires about an application for a licence to receive messages from East Timor  . . that matter falls within the purview of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, to whom the question has been referred. 
In May 1976 I have received no answer to that question. These 2 questions to which I have referred are dealt with in the final part of the motion which is before us. I mention those 2 questions because  Mr Winspeare  Guicciardi, when he was on a fact-finding mission here some weeks ago, concluded his report with these words: 
As a first step, it might be possible to build on the slender common assumption that the people of East Timor should be consulted on the future status of the Territory. 
The point I want to make is simply this: There is no question of the people of East Timor being consulted on the future of East Timor without a United Nations presence or intervention in East Timor. My criticism of the present Australian Government on this score is quite simple. It relates to the seizure of the radio. But the fact is that  Mr Winspeare  Guicciardi was in Jakarta and came to Australia in January 1976. On 25 January the radio in Darwin was seized. Since that time there has been no communication with East Timor; there has been a blackout. 
-There have been leaks of information and there has been communication from East Timor, but there is no means of radio communication with East Timor. The fact of the matter is that on that date the Government connived to black out East Timor in the interests of the Indonesians who were there. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-The Senate was debating the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1976 last night. I return to the debate tonight refurbished by an excellent dinner and in a mood to pay a tribute to my hostess this evening, who is a great creator of meringues. I think that in the course of this debate I should mention that the meringue is an art form which is much unappreciated in this country and which should receive further attention. 
Last night we were concerning ourselves, as I recall, with the provisions of the States Grants (Schools) Bill which provides for the payment of the sum of $431 m to the States for expenditure on education in respect of government and nongovernment schools for the year 1976.I must say at the outset that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech fairly pointed out that what is encompassed by this legislation is largely the product of the Whitlam Labor Government. It carries forward for the year 1976 the revolution in attitudes to education at both primary and secondary level implemented by the Labor Government in 1 972. 
I remind the Senate that the work from which this Bill flows is in a sense the work of the Australian Schools Commission which was established by legislation of the Labor Government in 1973. When that legislation was introduced into the House of Representatives it was bitterly opposed by the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party, for whom the spokesman at that time was  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, threatened to use its numbers in the Senate- a House of review, as I am reminded from time to time- to defeat that legislation. It was the National Country Party, the members of which are situated over here on my left, strangely enough, which saw the significance and importance of the Schools Commission legislation and which supported that legislation when it was introduced by the Labor Government. To that extent, perhaps for the first and the last time in my life, I congratulate and applaud the attitude of the National Country Party, which I would normally embrace with the enthusiasm one reserves for a cobra. 
On the occasion of the introduction of that legislation the National Country Party played a significant and important role. I suspect that that may have been because, as  Senator Tehan  said last night, it realised the importance of that legislation to disadvantaged schools in Australia and particularly disadvantaged schools in rural areas. So I pay  en passant,  as the French would say, a tribute to the National Country Party for its role in the passage of that Schools Commission legislation. 
When speaking of the Schools Commission legislation and the 1973 legislation of the Labor Government I said that it had brought about a revolution in education in Australia. If I were to define in more explicit terms what I meant by that expression I would seek to do it in simple terms in these ways: The 1973 legislation of the Labor Government recognised the right of every Australian child to the best possible educational opportunity which a wealthy society such as ours is capable of providing. That is the first thing that the 1973 legislation of the Labor Government meant. The second thing it meant was the abolition of the socially divisive argument about State aid which racked this country for decades. Thirdly, it meant the ending of federal funding of per capita grants which made pocket money for the wealthy in Australia and statistics of the children of the poor. It meant the end of that system of per capita grants and it meant the beginning of the end of educational ghettoes in a country as wealthy as Australia. Further, it meant a striving towards decent, basic minimum standards for Australian children, whatever their origins and wherever they might happen to live. It meant in essence an emphasis, if one can put it in sloganeering terms as we now tend to do, on the fulfilment of needs in education rather than a totally different allocation of priorities. 
Of course, it is not a perfect system. As any system devised by man must be imperfect in some ways, so is the education system which stems from the Schools Commission legislation and this legislation which is now before the Senate. Honourable senators have to recall only the visits of parents and teachers and other people to the Houses of Parliament last week to understand the raised level of anticipations and hopes and aspirations of thousands of people throughout this community who are involved in education and who were involved in that visit last week. Every honourable senator has received correspondence about which he or she has to make judgments- correspondence from quite wealthy government schools in terms of the socioeconomic groups which they serve- insisting that their needs are still quite considerable in relation to additional equipment and so on. Every honourable senator has heard claims and representations from schools which serve lower socio-economic groups and which still require basic school amenities which were never required in this country previously. Those claims are things about which we have to make judgments. However, my concern in this debate is to see that we make the judgments according to certain criteria which I believe are fundamental to the importance of education in this country. 
This Bill does carry forward for 1976 that program to which I have referred in outline and which was enunciated by the Labor Government in 1973. The important point to remember, I think, is that the $43 lm which is made available by this Bill is based on the Schools Commission 's recommendations as to need in Australian society.  Senator Tehan  put it so simply last night when he expressed it, I think, in terms that it is important that the view of an expert body such as the Schools Commission should be taken into account in priority to the views of all sorts of other  ad hoc  experts and interest groups and so on in the community, because the Schools Commission is required to act in accordance with certain criteria. 
As honourable senators will know, in this place I have been not uncritical of the educational lobby- I call it that advisedly- in regard to post-secondary school education. I am much less critical of the educational lobby that exists in relation to school children. By the same token, I am not unmindful that in the area of education, as in every other area, governments have to make decisions in the broad, relating to questions of priority in spending. Whether it be in the field of tertiary education, primary or secondary education, defence or elsewhere, governments have to make decisions about priorities. I put it to the Government and to the Senate that, in making those decisions about priorities, it is most important to consider the criteria according to which those decisions will be made. 
Insofar as the Government is concerned, it is very important to live up to the tortuous rhetoric of the speechwriter for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he tries to define a contemporary philosophy for a conservative party in Australia in the 1970s, with the heavy emphasis on the role and significance or importance of the individual in Australian society. In educational terms, as I understand it, this means only one thing. It does not mean selected individuals or a fortunate few in Australian society; it means every individual in Australian society. The development of individual initiative, the development of individual personality, and all the other glib cliches of political rhetoric depend on the equality of opportunity for individuals to develop those qualities in schools. It is for this reason that we regard this legislation as so important. 
Last night I was provoked into saying certain things by certain passages in the second reading speech Of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Reading the Minister's second reading speech, one suspects- I personally suspect- that the Minister recognises the strength of the position which I have just put; but at the same time his ear is consistently cocked, listening to a choir of ideological hymn singers on his right. So, the second reading speech, full of very important statements on education, in some degree is qualified by comments such as: 
The Bill does however reflect our intention to depart from the recent trend towards centralism in the administration of schools. 
It goes on to say that the Schools Commission will be required to consult with the States. I would like to know what the Schools Commission has been doing since it was established, since its very beginning, if it has not been consulting with the States. I hope to refer later to some comments from State educational authorities which reflect that very fact; but there is an implicit suggestion in the Minister's speech that somehow, for the first time, the Schools Commission will be required to consult with the 
States. As I say, it is regrettable that these sorts of ideological hang-ups exist in a discussion and an important contribution which the Minister himself has made to the question of education in Australia. 
There is one area which I wish to mention because I think it is very important and which perhaps illustrates in a sense the role of the needs concept in education, the role of the Schools Commission, and the importance which the last Government and this Minister by his answers to questions in this place have attached to the priority which has been given to education in the last few years. I refer to the position of the Catholic systemic schools. I think that during this week or last week most honourable senators will have received a letter from Father Martin, the Executive Director of the Catholic Education Commission of Victoria. In his letter of 30 April to me, which I assume is the same as other senators received, Father Martin states: 
The Catholic Education Commission of Victoria  (CECV)  has directed me to request you to consider the following points in any discussions which you might have in connection with the decisions of both Australian and State Governments on education issues in the near future: 
The CECV wishes to record its gratitude for what Governments have done over the past decade for Catholic and indeed all schools. 
It believes that the needs of all children in all schools should be considered in a total pattern as has been attempted in recent years, particularly through the Schools Commission. 
The benefits of a total operation of this kind extend far beyond the obvious material benefits which additional expenditure on education has provided. 
While economy is necessary in a period of economic instability and all sectors must accept a share in such economies, the CECV would be most anxious if the strategies of the Schools Commission programs were altered in any major way. 
Father Martin goes on to make a number of other points with which other senators will be familiar. There I have quoted a voice from outside the government school system which pays a very significant tribute to the principles which the Schools Commission has enunciated and the principles upon which the Schools Commission is founded. It is a tribute which should be ignored only with the greatest of care. In other paragraphs of his letter, Father Martin makes the same point. He speaks on behalf of an education system in which the percentage of religious persons in the teaching vocation has decreased from 48 per cent to 20 per cent in the last decade; that is to say, in Catholic schools the one time great vocation of teaching has become the profession of teaching in the last decade. This creates all sorts of problems for that system, including problems of needs, just as the government school system is faced with tremendous problems of needs. 
Let me say to the Minister in passing that, in judging the claims of the Catholic school system based on needs, the Minister should be hesitant to accept, as he might be disposed to do as a New South Welshman, the views of the Independent Parents Association of New South Wales because that body does not speak for the systemic school system in Australia. It speaks for the interests of wealthy private schools, whether they be Catholic or Protestant. Nobody should be deluded into thinking that the voice of that body is the voice of the Catholic school system in Australia. The genuine voice of the Catholic school system in Australia is the same as the genuine voice of the government school system in Australia. It is based on an understanding of the importance of needs for every child and every school in this community. 
I wish to make one or two minor criticisms of this Bill. I hope that those criticisms will be regarded as constructive. The first comment that I make goes to the question of accountability by the States for the very considerable sums of money which are made available to them by this legislation and by all Commonwealth legislation funding school projects. I refer the Senate to the Schools Commission report of 1975. In paragraph 19.27 the following recommendation is made by the Schools Commission: 
It is recommended that the Australian Government make a condition of the 1976-78 programs that State and Catholic authorities ensure an adequate flow of information to the Commission and to the public on the intended and actual use of Australian Government grants. 
That recommendation follows paragraph 19.26 in the Schools Commission report, in which attention is drawn to the difficulties which the Commission and indeed the then Minister for Education encountered as a result of the failure of State governments to account for the money that they were receiving. I appreciate very strongly the need for information which a body such as the Schools Commission must have and the need for information which a responsible Federal Minister should have about the way in which taxpayers' money is being spent by the States. I say only that this has been a source of constant difficulty during the last 3 years. I believe that the Government has failed in not carrying forward the recommendation of the Schools Commission to which I have just referred. With all the pious talk we hear in the Senate about good housekeeping- talk which makes Malcolm Fraser appear to be a sort of economic equivalent of  Mrs Beaton  and her cookery book- surely in the educational context Federal money which is spent on education should be accounted for in a proper way. I do not believe that this Bill reflects adequately the principle of accountability which the Schools Commission seeks in its report of June 1975. I think that the present legislation perhaps is not up to the standard of previous legislation in its requirements for accountability. I regard that as a failing and I make the point only in the spirit of constructive criticism because I do not expect Liberal Ministers or Liberal governments to be perfect in the things they do, just as I hope they do not expect this of us. 
I next want to make some criticism of clause 7 of the Bill. As I read the clause, it gives a State Minister, after money has been allocated to a State for education and expenditure, the power in the last analysis to determine whether that money shall be spent on capital expenditure or recurrent expenditure. All the State Minister has to do to make a change in the allocation of the funds is to have a discussion with the Federal Minister about the matter. I do not know whether this is another sop in relation to State rights or something of that kind. But I would have thought that with the prospect of a third State Labor Government being elected next week and a fourth State Labor Government being elected next year also, the present Federal Government might have been alert to make sure that this did not happen and that the States would have to account properly for the way that the money was spent. I had a look at the 1972 Act introduced by a Liberal government. There was no doubt about the position under that Act. Money was provided for capital expenditure and money was provided for recurrent expenditure. There was no question of chopping from one to the other. 
As I read clause 7 of the Bill, it means that once there is an identification of need by the Schools Commission- a need perhaps for recurrent expenditure or perhaps for capital expenditureit is open for a State Minister to say: 'We do not think that that is an appropriate assessment of need in our case. We feel that perhaps rather than spending the money on a particular program, the money would be best spent on school libraries'. We had a unique situation in 1973 in my State of Victoria when the then Minister for Education, suspecting what might be in the Karmel report but without actually knowing, went around Victoria promising that every school would have a library if the Liberal Government was returned to power in the State election. That promise has not yet been fulfilled because that was not a priority need which the Karmel Commission actually recommended. So I am most anxious that that sort of situation should be clarified and that we are not left in a position in which a State Minister, having received an allocation in respect of education, should be able to indulge in the exercise of determining needs on a different basis from the needs as determined by the Schools Commission. I refer - 
-I understand that,  Senator Tehan.  You, as an appreciator of the work of the Schools Commission, should understand what I am saying also. I am saying that it really seems insufficient that Lindsay Thompson, the State Minister for Education in Victoria, should telephone  Senator Carrick,  the Federal Minister in Canberra, have a chat with him about what he thinks he should do with his money and that be the end of it. What we ask for in our amendment is that the question of re-allocation of any funds under clause 7 should be done by the Minister after discussion with the Schools Commission and report to the Parliament. We regard that as an appropriate democratic safeguard and an appropriate criterion in terms of priorities in expenditure. I would have thought that  Senator Tehan  would have appreciated that view and perhaps if he had - 
-Perhaps if the honourable senator has not absorbed my point tonight he can look in  Hansard  tomorrow at what I have said. The next question to which I refer is that of school base funding. The Minister made some reference to the matter in his second reading speech, albeit oblique. I say that he was oblique in his second reading speech, but on other occasions he has been much more specific about it when answering questions on the matter in the Senate. All I can say about it is that we applaud the Minister's approach to the question. We recognise that in a sense it is a tentative experimental area; something which has to be looked at as it goes along. Although the Schools Commission did not make any formal recommendation on this question in its 1975 report, it in fact suggested that 5 per cent may be considered an appropriate percentage for school base funding. I do not think that that was a formal recommendation in any sense. But I am very glad that the Government has acted on the suggestion. Surprising as it may be to  Senator Carrick  who has sort of painted us into an iniquitous, centralist corner over the years, we do believe in diversity of decision-making and in devolution of decision-making. We believe that it is very important that parents and teacher be involved in their school community and make decisions about many of the projects with which the school is concerned at a local level. We are glad that the Minister has seen fit to include this provision in general terms and referred to it in the way that he did in his second reading speech. 
The next matter which is mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech to which I wish to refer is the innovations program. The Minister, in his second reading speech when dealing with the special projects program, as reported on page 1248 of Senate  Hansard  of 27 April 1976 said: 
As part of the review of expenditure undertaken by the Government earlier this year, it was decided that because of the late start to the special projects program for 1976, it was doubtful whether all of the funds would be spent. Accordingly, the sum available was reduced from$5.2m to$3.6m. 

 Senator Carrick, I do not desire to put you on a hook on this issue. But you know the position. When he was in Adelaide 3 weeks ago he addressed parents and citizens associations there. Parents came forward one after another with examples of innovations programs which had been ready to go and which he stated in his second reading speech and elsewhere were not ready. The Minister stated that because of that the funds available were reduced from $5.2m - 
I do not doubt the Minister's word but I do doubt the accuracy of his report. The fact of the matter is that the Minister's experience in Adelaide reflects the reality of the situation. I understand that the Government wants to make cuts in various areas of expenditure. All I am suggesting is that in making expenditure cuts in the special grants program only a sort of glib Public Service look was taken at the whole thing. The conclusion reached was: Let us slash a bit off that. I am sorry that that happened. But I do not think it is really correct to say that the special projects program was not ready to go ahead. It is a source of regret that the Government, which had to make expenditure cuts perhaps in various areas, should have chosen this area in which to make a cut of that kind. 
Finally, I state, as I have indicated throughout my speech, that the Opposition approves of this legislation. After all, in essence it was our legislation as a Labor government. The important thing, of course, is that under this Bill, which will become an Act and which relates to 1976, the principles enunciated in the Schools Commission Act and the states grants schools legislation of 1973 have been carried forward for this year. I know the Minister has accused us of being defensive about the Schools Commission. It is a most accurate allegation. I am terribly defensive about the Schools Commission. The Minister has accused us of that. But what I am concerned about- I referred to it earlier- is that perhaps the Minister listens to strange voices which may try to divert him from what I believe is a very sincere purpose, namely, to see that the program which we introduced and which is concerned with the rights, individuality and freedom of expression of every Australian child is carried forward and to insist upon and fight for the development of a program which will help to widen the horizons of every child in this country and which will help to enhance and enrich our greatest resource. 
It is about these matters, of course, that we are most concerned. I regret if I have made carping criticisms about details in the States Grants Schools Bill 1976. 1 hope I make them in a constructive spirit. I would hope that when the Minister is considering legislation, perhaps for the next triennium-if it be a triennium- that attention will be paid to the points to which I have referred when speaking to this legislation. 
Our utmost concern as an Opposition- we believe we reflect the opinion of the vast mass of parents and teachers in government schools and in the Catholic systemic system- is that the criteria which were established in 1973 should be carried forward. We understand that cuts may have to be made in the context of the Budget. We understand that we may come here screaming about what the Government has done to welfare payments, to defence or to something else. That is the way Oppositions in this country perform. What I am saying is that whatever cuts are made, we rank the question of education and educational priorities in Australia very highly. If cuts have to be made in education, we hope that in making those cuts the Government will be diligent to ensure that the cuts are so made as to protect the most needy in Australia; that they protect the most needy children; that they protect the most needy schools; that they protect the most disadvantaged. It is only with that sort of approach, even if the Government is pretty stingy in the Budget, can the Government hope- it is a pious hope indeed to build Malcolm Fraser 's new Jerusalem in Australia- to fulfil those pious platitudes that we hear about the rights, the dignity and individuality of every Australian citizen. That can only be done, in the last resort, through the educational system in this country. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I  present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer the Minister to Press reports in today's  Age  newspaper, amongst other newspapers, which state that the relay of broadcasts of Radio Station 2JJ to Melbourne has been deferred yet again. In view of the fact that an appropriation was made in the last Budget to cover this item, why was the expenditure for this item not made at the time of the much vaunted expenditure cuts in February this year? If the reason for not providing the relay is not connected with expenditure cuts but is related to the current inquiry into broadcasting and television, will the Minister tell us what aspects of the terms of reference of that inquiry are relevant to an administrative decision which could have been made by the Minister? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report with regard to footwear. 
-I ask for leave to move a motion. 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the statement of a day or two ago about unemployment benefit being made available to farmers, can the Minister say whether an assessment has been made of the number of farmers who it is anticipated will be eligible for the unemployment benefit. Further, insofar as the calculation of a farmer's income is concerned, can the Minister inform the Senate how that is to be done to bring it into the normal unemployment benefits criteria? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that the special services division of the Victorian Education Department has advised Victorian schools that the National Film Library has imposed a reduction of lending services to schools, the reasons given being the recently imposed staff ceilings and budgetary restraints. In view of the importance of audio-visual aids in education, will the Minister examine the position to see whether the cost savings involved justify deprivation of benefit to Australian schools and Australian school children? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of public concern over the inquiry into broadcasting and television in Australia, will the Minister stir his colleague in the other place to give answers to the questions I asked on notice 3 weeks ago about the nature of the inquiry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Under what law or regulation does the Australian Government have the right to prohibit privately chartered or owned aircraft flying out of Australia. 
Why was the Darwin radio used by Fretilin representatives seized on 25 January 1976 at the time it was being used to make arrangements for the United Nations' special representative to meet with Fretilin leaders. 
Was the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked by Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Adam  Malik, to close the Fretilin radio during talks with  Mr Malik  in Jakarta in January 1976. 
On how many occasions, and on what dates, has the Department of Foreign Affairs asked the Indonesian Government to recognise the Geneva Conventions in relation to the fighting and casualties in East Timor and to ensure that UDT and APODETI leaders in East Timor gave the same guarantees. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the recent interview granted by the Prime Minister to the American magazine  Variety  in which he gave a policy statement in relation to the Australian film industry. Is it the intention of the Prime Minister to use American magazines as a forum for policy statements in relation to such a sensitive and important industry as the Australian film industry? Does the Prime Minister's expressed opposition in this article to quotas for Australian films being imposed on exhibitors mean the rejection by this Government of the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which made it clear that the industry could not survive unless such quotas were imposed? Does the Prime Minister's statement foreshadow a backing down on the Australian content on radio and television? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows  Senator Harradine  's question yesterday which suggested that the Solzhenitsyn film had not been shown by the Australian Broadcasting Commission because of pressure from the Russian Embassy. 1 ask the Minister whether he will also look into the fact that the film on the life and death of the republican poet in Spain, Federico Garcia Lorca, had not been shown by the Australian Broadcasting Commission because of pressure from the Government of King Juan Carlos of Spain. 
I wish to speak very briefly about this Bill. Perhaps I should indicate just 3 important matters which the Bill contains and about which the Opposition is concerned. The Senate is debating a Bill to amend the Grants Commission Act. In his second reading speech the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  defined the purposes of the legislation as being threefold. He said that the purpose of the Bill is firstly, to remove from the Grants Commission Act any references to assistance for local government which are no longer appropriate under the federalism policy; secondly, to make specific provision for the Commission to advise the Government on matters relating to assistance to local government; and thirdly, to remove the obligation upon the Grants Commission to report on applications for assistance from local government. In his opening sentence the Minister described this Rill as being a step in the implementation of the Government's federalism policy. 
As we see it, the result of this legislation being passed by the Senate will be the changing of the name of the Grants Commission to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This carries with it the implication, which is spelt out later in the Minister's second reading speech, that there will be established 6 State Grants Commissions which will perform in relation to local government a function, in a structural sense, similar to that which has been performed by the Grants Commission in the past. The legislation involves a change to the system whereby the Grants Commission directly inquiries into the affairs and, more particularly, the needs of the 880 local government organisations in this country and makes recommendations to the Government on the totality of the amount of money which should be made available to each individual council. The first point about that proposal which concerns the Opposition is that it is again indicated that the proposal carries with it the implication that at a primary level the concept of consideration of the needs of each local government council will be abandoned. It also carries with it the idea that the universality of interest of local government across Australia is a matter which is appropriately considered at a national level and not in a sort of segmented level, depending on the coincidence of State boundaries. 
If one examines the present system one finds that the Grants Commission reports on those needs to the Government and the Government then makes a decision about the total amount which will be made available by the Grants Commission for local government purposes. The Government is quite able to make that decision even though it may disagree with the assessment of the Grants Commission. When this legislation is passed, and we must assume that it will be passed, the Government will tell the Grants Commission at the start, as we understand it, the total amount of Government funds which will be available. The Grants Commission will then make a recommendation apportioning that sum amongst the States. One supposes that the State governments, having enacted legislation to establish their local Grants Commissions, will then charge those Grants Commissions with the task of apportioning that money amongst the local government areas in the State. I will make just one or two comments about that. The first is that although this approach may ultimately involve less cost to the national Government, or indeed greater flexibility to the national Government in deciding what the cost to it of local government will be, it is very doubtful in our view whether the proposed structure of providing grants to local government will involve less cost to the community as a whole. The situation may arise in which the Grants Commission, with 40 years of expertise, will have this function removed from it. That function will be reinvested in 6 State Grants Commissions which will be involved, possibly without the same degree of expertise, in assessing the amount of  per capita  grants to be made to particular States. 
The next point to which I wish to draw the Senate's attention refers to  per capita  grants. The Opposition sees this as carrying with it the implication, based on the present Government's ideological hang-up about these matters, that the richer local government areas will get richer and the poorer local government areas will get poorer. This is so, we believe, irrespective of any equalisation proposals or topping up proposals, if I can use that expression, when the primary criterion of need is abandoned. It is very difficult to say too much about this matter because there is so little revealing information in the Minister's second reading speech. One suspects, perhaps unkindly, that this matter has been rushed through somewhat in order that the legislation might be on the statute books prior to the next Premiers' Conference. If one examines the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Administrative Services, there really is very little enlightenment as to what it all means.  Senator Withers  nods his head with his characteristic charm. If nothing else in politics, I suppose he could be described as a realist. He recognises, having glanced at the second reading speech prepared for him, that the author of that speech really does not know what is going to happen about the final arrangements which must be made in connection with this proposal, in terms of detail. One refers particularly to page 2 of the printed copy of that speech. 
If I may say so, it is verbose in view of the actual information which it contains. But that is characteristic of the speeches which the Minister is inclined to give in this place. At page 2, the second reading speech says: 
Local government will receive assistance under the new tax sharing arrangements as from the 1 976-77 financial year. Under these arrangements a fixed percentage of personal income tax will be earmarked for distribution through the States to local government to provide per capita grants, possibly weighted, to all local government bodies and an equalisation or 'topping up' grant to be distributed through State Grants Commissions. 

 Senator Withers acknowledges by the vehement nodding of his head and by his interjections that that is an extremely vague statement of intention. It is a statement which indicates that the proposal itself had not been refined or fully thought out at the time of the introduction of this legislation. That is why we say that it is an example of window dressing for the purpose of the Premiers' Conference. 
Again, at page 3 of the printed copy of the second reading speech one reads: 
The precise role that the Grants Commission will play in the implementation of the Government's new federalism policy has yet to be finally determined. While the Commission will continue to exercise its traditional role in relation to the less populous States, its role in relation to local government finances will be considerably modified. The proposed amendments to the Bill reflect this modified role. 
Again that is a statement of characteristic imprecision. When I say 'characteristic', I mean characteristic of this Government which, after coming to power in December of last year with a number of vague promises, suddenly finds that it has to come down to the reality of implementing those policies into practical proposals. One finds this statement to be an extraordinary example of the scene 6 months after the election in which there is still this calculated vagueness in a proposal as important as this one. 
I wish to say something about the hysterical outburst by  Senator Jessop  on the concept of regionalism.  Senator Jessop,  I would put to the Senate, has a very limited vision in this matter. In fact, I might say 'Optometrist heal thyself, if he were here; but he is not. He displayed that limited vision by his references to a speech made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  as he then was, in 1965. 
He has had his ups and downs which, as  Senator Withers  knows, I would be the first to acknowledge. This sort of obsessional desire to raise up the ghost of regionalism and  Mr Whitlam  's earlier expressed views about the role of State Labor politicians, and then to use it as a stick to support this rather vague and waffling legislation in 1976 seems to me to be a bizarrely imaginative exercise, to put it in the kindliest terms. One of the things which practical experience of the Labor Government's endeavours to encourage regional arrangements shows is that this enabled councils and local governments to pool their resources, their initiatives and, indeed, their wishes in certain ways which have benefited each of those councils and the whole of the region. For example, I refer the Senate to a conference in May 1976 of the chairmen of local government bodies. This was presided over by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission. In describing the Labor Government's programs for local government, he said: 
These programs represented a breakthrough by local government because they manifested the recognition of the obligation of Federal Government to provide financial assistance for local government purposes as a supplement to the revenues which councils were able to raise from their traditional revenue sources. 
Discussing the so-called new federalism policy which really seems to be the old federalism policy of 1900 vintage,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell said: 
The policy may, however, cause some concern to local government in 2 respects. One is that since the ultimate distribution of funds to local government will be the responsibility of the State Grants Commission, the public hearings which previously took place between local government bodies and the Commission will come to an end. The other is that the passing of responsibility to the State for local government grants will make unnecessary- and perhaps deny to local government- any communication with the Commonwealth Government or any of its agencies. 
That criticism, made by the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission, indicates something of what is envisaged by the expression 'the new federalism', because the so-called new federalism is nothing more than a reiteration in some respects of nineteenth century colonialism in its attitude to this question. If we deny communication between the Commonwealth Government and local government in the way which I believe is envisaged by this legislation, the clock is really turned back to that period when the situation with artificiality of colonial boundaries was a key factor in governmental structures in this country. 
For those sorts of reasons which concern us, and concern us largely because this legislation is described as an aspect of the new federalism which seems to us to be a very vague and ill defined concept, the Opposition strongly opposes the purposes and the provisions of this Bill. Furthermore, we find it deplorable that, in these sorts of  ad hoc  arrangements which have been thrown together to constitute the new federalism, we should find a Bill as sloppy and imprecisely defined as the Minister in the second reading speech which he gave in this place indicates it to be.  Senator Withers,  as I said before, acknowledges that imprecision. 
-He acknowledges that imprecision and indeed embraces it because it provides scope for a multitude of sins both of omission and of commission. Indeed, we feel confident that it will be some time before either sins of omission or commission can be committed under this legislation because nobody really understands where it is going. This is quite apparent having regard to the terms of the Minister's second reading speech. 
For those reasons we oppose the legislation. We think it is an undesirable and a retrograde step. We think it is bad for the structure of government in Australia generally. We think it is particularly bad for local government in Australia. We think it is bad because it severs rather than encourages the development of closer relationships between the 3 tiers of government. We think that in 1976 it is undesirable for Australian government structure and for Australian society as a whole. Accordingly we oppose the legislation, as a reprehensible, if I could use that characteristic expression, step in the structure of government in Australia. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I think the reasons for its introduction are clearly and adequately set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood).  I doubt that honourable senators would be particularly interested in a speech on this rather technical subject. Accordingly, I decline to make one, except to say that the legislation is an improvement and will be of assistance to both the Parliament and the Parliamentary Counsel. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-The Senate is debating the Government's economic statement delivered last Thursday night. Insofar as that statement represents an attempt to grapple with inflation, it is welcomed by honourable senators on this side of the Senate. Insofar as it seeks to assist poorer sections in the community and to make increased child endowment payments- carried out on the recommendation of the Henderson report- the statement is also welcomed by the Opposition. It is not our task as an Opposition to condemn everything that the Government does. We hope that it will be successful in reducing the rate of inflation as a result of its package of economic measures. But it is our task to point out certain risks in the strategy which the Government is following and to point out particularly that we believe the strategy is misguided in that it will not solve the problem of the high level of unemployment which exists in our society for a variety of reasons which are related to that question. 
Since the Government came to office, we have had nearly 6 months of vaccilation on the nature of the economic recovery which it seeks to encourage. We were told early in the year that the Government relied on an investment led recovery. We were told that in the context of massive commitments in the form of the investment allowance. More recently we have been told that the recovery must be a consumer led recovery or, more particularly, a combination of both because it has now been realised that consumer spending is a key factor in investment. The adoption of both these strategies, which have been brought together in various statements made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in the last few weeks, to an extent, we would say, probably represent a more correct view than that adopted earlier. However, throughout the whole of the strategy there are as we see it 2 basic problems. The first is that of unemployment and the second is that of the Government's announced policy of reducing the level of real wages in the community as a measure to tackle inflation. 
There seem to us to be certain warnings in this. First of all, with regard to the level of real wages and the fear not of unemployment itself but the prospect of it, we regard both these matters- that is to say, a threat to the standard of real wages and a threat of unemployment- as being very powerful psychological factors which are likely to inhibit and limit the level of consumer spending in our community. There is nothing which acts as a more powerful stimulus to reduce consumer spending than the threat or the possibility of losing employment. There is probably no more powerful threat than that against the desire and the capacity to spend freely. We see that as a very important factor to which the Government has not given sufficient attention in its overall economic strategy. When one adds to that the cuts which have been made in government expenditure in a large number of areas, we feel that that again is an inhibiting factor on the capacity and freedom of individuals to spend. We believe that these steps have been taken- of course, it is quite clear that this is the casebecause of a pre- occupation with the size of the deficit. This pre-occupation has loomed large in the statements of Government Ministers since the caretaker Government took over in November of last year. We do not believe that tax indexation, to which I will refer later, unemployment or the reduction in real wages will help solve the problem of the size of the deficit and the pre-occupation with it which clearly exists in the minds of Government members. 
I turn now very briefly to the question of tax indexation which, of course, is part of the Government's economic package and which has been foreshadowed in statements for a long period of time. It is suggested first of all that tax indexation will remove the pressure for wage increases from Australian trade unions. Of course, that might have been so if the tax indexation package had not been accompanied by suggestions that the Government is seeking to reduce real wages and is opposing full wage indexation in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We believe that it is just not likely that there will be a sufficient response from the unions in relation to the promise of tax indexation and the Government's approach to wage demands and that this is a sort of  non sequitur  which is the weakness in the Government strategy. 
Secondly, I would make this comment about tax indexation: It seems to us to have been in a sense a very strong ideological hang-up, leaving aside its merits or demerits in a practical sense as it affects people. I speak for myself when I say that I am concerned that the essential philosophy behind tax indexation is the belief which has been expressed by the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, on a number of occasions but perhaps most eloquently in the phrase which he used at the National Press Club luncheon last year when he said that the freedom to spend one 's own income is as important as the freedom of speech or the freedom of religion. 
-I am grateful to  Senator Wright,  the voice from the past, reminding me of the words of Lord Beveridge. I have a much greater respect for Lord Beveridge 's philosophy and work than I have for the philosophy of  Mr Fraser,  which is what I was dealing with when the honourable senator interjected. It seems to me that in the context of the Australian society in the 1970s and 1980s, the concepts with which Lord Beveridge was concerned in the 1950s perhaps are not entirely relevant to the sort of problems that we face in Australia. As I say, I am concerned with what I see as the sort of return to the tribal state in Australia in the 1 970s. 
We will not be opposing tax indexation in the Senate when the legislation comes before us, first of all, because the Government has a clear mandate for introducing tax indexation. There is no doubt about that. It was made quite clear by the Fraser Government when it was in Opposition that it would introduce tax indexation if it were elected on 13 December last year. But we do raise doubts about the underlying philosophy that $5 in the pocket is more important than community services which a government can provide in the context of a modern democracy in the late 1970s. What it amounts to in overall political terms is a very direct attack on what Walter Lippman called the public philosophy. In a society like ours we must have a very strong concern, I believe, for the level of public services which are the concrete expression of what Lippman called that public philosophy. 
The other ideological hangup, if I can use that expression again, to which I refer is the belief that in a sense you can opt out of government under the guise of what is now called new federalism. There is a lot of political cunning in the new federalism proposals, as they are called, but 
I believe that they contain great dangers for a modern democratic society, just as the philosophical assumptions underlying tax indexation contain dangers of the same kind. The 2 dangers which are inherent in federalism as it is expounded by the Government are the possibility of the creation of a society in 10 years time in which there are different standards between the various States, because of the opting out by a national government of some of its obligations, and the loss of a sense of national purpose which only an Australian government can give and which State governments cannot give. It is these 2 criteria which seem to me to be most important in considering the proposals which are inherent in this whole economic package. 
The main economic pronouncements were accompanied by some very important cuts in public expenditure. We as an Opposition have different priorities about many of the things which have been the subject of expenditure cuts. We have different priorities about education. In a sense we congratulate the Government on its very substantial commitment to education, although we would have preferred the commitment to have been better in certain areas, particularly the areas of technical schools. But overall we have different priorities from the sorts of priorities which the Government has adopted in its expenditure cuts. 
I wish to refer to 2 specific areas of cuts which are of particular interest to me. The first one is the cuts which have been made in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In real terms the cuts are from about $132m to about $128m, or about $5m in real dollars in a year. Taking account of inflation, that represents a cut of about 1 7 per cent. It can be said that that is not a particularly enormous figure and that the Australian Broadcasting Commission or the people who listen to its programs should not be particularly upset about the order of those cuts. But the worst thing about these cuts in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission is that they are in an area in which a national service is provided for the whole community. That national service will have to be curtailed as a result of the cuts which have been made. 
I refer to the national service available to the whole of the community because I want to distinguish it from a number of sizable items of expenditure on which the Government has embarked. I refer to the investment allowance, which goes to industry, and to the superphosphate bounty, which goes to rural industries. These are very big items of sectional expenditure from which the whole community will benefit indirectly, I suppose, if the plan works in the respective sections. But these sums of money are paid to specific interest groups in the community. As distinct from that the ABC, as I say, provides a service which is available to the whole of the community and the cost of that service is really pretty negligible. 
There can always be subjective criticisms of a body such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Any body similar to that is likely to arouse quite a deal of criticism. But when one considers the real costs that are involved to the Australian community, it seems that these cuts in relation to the ABC are totally unjustified. The cost of the ABC to every Australian citizen is about 3c a day, or about $ 12 a year. That is not a very large sum for the diversity of service which is provided or for the work which is done by the ABC in areas such as ethnic radio, the provision of services to outback communities in Australia, the provision of Radio Australia and the provision of symphony orchestras in the 6 capital cities. These sorts of diverse services are provided to the Australian community at a cost of about 3c a day to each Australian citizen. 
One must compare that cost with the cost of commercial radio and television which is inflicted on the Australian community in terms of the cost of products. The costs in commercial radio I think can fairly be estimated at about $300m a year. That money is spent on advertising to sustain commercial radio and television. But that sum of $300m a year is passedon to the Australian consumer in the added costs of products. That is each Australian citizen pays $27 a year for commercial radio and television. That compares with $12 a year which each Australian citizen pays for the Australian Broadcasting 
Commission. Those are the sorts of cost items with which we are concerned, and it is in this context that a cut of $5m in real terms, or 17 per cent, is made in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I am suggesting that public expenditure means expenditure by the public in the context in which I am using the expression. 
I am saying that it costs the Australian people a lot more to support commercial radio and television than it costs them to support the Australian Broadcasting Commission. For this modest cost to which I have referred the ABC provides a service to the areas of the community about which I have talked. It is this sort of a service which will be pared back. There has been a lot of speculation in the newspapers about how that will be done. There has been speculation that programs like  Late Line  and other programs which have brought a diversity of interest to the Australian listening community and which have a very widespread audience will be cut back. But whatever the speculation about these matters is- and we can have our entertainment either by radio or by television or by  Senator Wright,  or in the bar or wherever we happen to be- the fact of the matter is that the level of community entertainment and education which is provided by the ABC is very widespread and important. 
I do not believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission itself is yet in a position to determine where cuts will have to be made. Certainly some cuts will take place. One of the most alarming features about the cuts to the ABC is simply the sorts of specifications which the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has put on the type of cuts which ought to be made. For example, in his statement announcing the cuts the Minister said: 
The Government expects the Australian Broadcasting Commission to make a lot of the cuts in the administrative area. 
The ABC is about the only public body which has been singled out to make cuts in a specific area, and that was in the administrative area. The Minister also referred to delays in the improvements which were to be made to Station 2 J J in Sydney and Station 3ZZ in Melbourne. All these improvements are to be deferred, in spite of the great success of those 2 stations in their respective areas. Nothing has been said about cuts to ethnic radio. Last night  Senator Lajovic  expressed a view about the importance of ethnic radio to migrant communities in Australia, and I do not think that anybody doubts that position. 
But improvements of a similar kind, such as the extension of frequency modulation broadcasting to Perth and Brisbane, have been deferred. In all these matters there is a denial of a service to the listening public in Australia and to the community at large. What is rather frightening about the nature of the statement in relation to the ABC, which one suspects reflects ideology rather than economy, is that the Minister singled out the ABC and said that these cuts had to be made in particular areas. He specified the areas I have mentioned, all of which are appropriately a matter of proper examination by the inquiry into broadcasting and television which this Government has set up. 
Every time since the beginning of this year when questions have been asked of the Government and the Minister about the future of FM radio in Perth and Brisbane, and about the future of 3ZZ and the relaying of station 2JJ to Melbourne and so on, the answer has been given that all of these matters will be dealt with by the inquiry into broadcasting and television. That has not happened at all. The fact is that there has been a great deal of undermining of public confidence in that inquiry which is to take place. The Government has aborted in a section the terms of reference of that inquiry by making these cuts in the budget of the ABC in the manner in which they have been made. Questions which have been on notice for a long time about these matters have not been answered by the Minister. 
The only other area to which I wish to refer is that of Medibank. As I have said in this chamber before, when the Labor Government came to power in 1972, if it had a mandate to do anything about which the Australian people knew it had a mandate to introduce Medibank. Throughout all those years of Labor Government, the Opposition as it then was in this place consistently opposed Medibank. We were told that it did not matter that there were one million people in Australia who were not insured or covered by health insurance. We were told that there would be no freedom of choice under Medibank. We were told that Medibank would cost an enormous amount of money. We knew that; we did not need to be told. All of these things were said in Opposition over 3 years of Labor Government in oppostion to the introduction of Medibank. When in this Senate, facing up to the question of costs, the Government of the time introduced legislation to impose a 1.35 per cent levy on taxpayers incomes to help finance Medibank, senators then on the Opposition side opposed that levy and rejected that legislation. 
Next week, those same senators will be coming here and voting in favour of a 2-5 per cent levy to help finance Medibank. The learned  Clerk  of this House has written a book in which he describes the functions of the Senate. He refers to them under the heading:  Two Sieves are Better Than One.  He said that about the Senate and the role of the Senate as a House of Review. Am I not now entitled to ask the question whether perhaps 3 sieves would not be better than two or whether there should not be a further House imposed as a House of Review on top of the Senate, because only last year that 1.35 per cent levy was rejected by people like  Senator Chaney,  who is seeking to interject, who will come in here next week and vote for a 2.5 per cent levy. That is an interesting example of the role of the Senate as a sieve, as a House of Review. It sieves Labor legislation, but it lets through much bigger levies when a Liberal government is in power. 
The fact is that this Medibank levy is just a trade-off for tax indexation. The result of it for the Australian people will be confusion, a 2- tiered health system and the cost of implementation of the levy will be very considerable and confusing indeed. One of the excuses is that people should have freedom of choice, for goodness sake, between 2 health insurance funds, that is, freedom of choice as to who is going to pay your medical bills. Does anybody seriously give a damn about that sort of freedom of choice, about who is going to pay your medical bills? Is that an important freedom of choice in our society? But that is one of the ideological excuses given for the introduction of these new proposals relating to Medibank. 
-Perhaps we should look more closely at the choice, as I am provoked by  Senator Sheil  to do, and specifically at the sort of choice which is being offered between the 2 systems. If you do not want to pay the levy, you can opt out of Medibank by the payment of a $300 ceiling. If you get out of Medibank for that and you want private health insurance as well to cover intermediate wards and so on in hospitals, you can pay $435 a year for the privilege of having those 2 systems of medical coverage made available to you. 
The honourable senator who interjects will no doubt tell us all about this when she makes her speech on the subject. But the difference between the estimated cost of belonging to a private fund for full health cover of $350, and the cover provided by Medibank plus extra cover for intermediate ward and so on, is some $85. That is the sort of freedom of choice which people are being offered, even if freedom of choice in relation to the payment of medical bills was a relevant factor in a contemporary society. 
So, what is being offered is Buckley's choice.  Mr Fraser  is going back on the obligation which he undertook to the Australian people in December last year that he would not interfere with Medibank. Any senator on the Government side who doubts that statement can read any one of  Mr Fraser's  speeches made in the course of that election campaign. What is happening is that Medibank is not to be killed off with one blow; it is to suffer a slow death as many of the patients under Medibank, and private health insurance for that matter, have suffered over many years. That is another important example of the sort of humbug which is inherent in some of the details of this economic statement, where ideological factors which have possessed senators on the other side of the Senate in relation to Medibank, have possessed people like  Mr Fraser  in relation to not only health insurance but also various other areas and have possessed people like  Senator Withers  in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission really come to the fore. 
We wish the statement every success,  Senator Young.  We hope that it succeeds in curing inflation. But we say that we have an obligation to the Australian people to point out some of the thoughtless considerations in our view, some of the naive considerations and some of the purely rather bitchy ideological hangups which have motivated the Government in certain areas of the expenditure cuts which have been imposed upon the Australian people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) With regard to the questionnaire circulated to ethnic communities by the Consultative Committee on Ethnic Broadcasting under cover of a letter dated 12 April 1976, (a) what in question 1 (a) is meant by the expression 'an organisation' . . . 'operated by the Government'; (b) what in question I (b) is meant by the expression 'a government organisation'; and (c) what in question 1 (c) is meant by the expression 'a government-owned organisation'. 
Is any form of government organisation to be involved in ethnic broadcasting; if so, would it have statutory independence of any government department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Who will be conducting the inquiry into the Australian broadcasting system announced by the Minister on 1 3 April 1976. 
What expertise do persons conducting the inquiry have for assessing the needs of the Australian community in broadcasting. 
Who are the interested parties referred to in the Minister's statement that will be invited to make public submissions, and will they include representatives of consumers. 
Have any invitations been issued to interested parties: if so, in what form were they issued, if not, will such invitations include public advertisements. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications I refer to the recently announced cuts in the Budget for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I ask the Minister: Is it not normally the responsibility of a statutory commission, such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to determine how its own budget- be it reduced or otherwise- will be spent? I accordingly ask the Minister further: How were specifications of how the Australian Broadcasting Commission was to make cuts as mentioned in the statement by  Mr Robinson  arrived at? How did specifications come to be directed to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to the effect that improvements to station 2JJ were to be deferred, that the improvements to station 3ZZ in Melbourne were to be deferred and that the frequency modulation licences for Perth and Brisbane were to be delayed? I further ask the Minister: Were not all these subject matters appropriate to be dealt with by the inquiry into broadcasting and television because they affect the situation of listeners in both Perth and Brisbane, for example, and in Melbourne and Sydney in relation to the 2 stations I mentioned? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to newspaper reports of the last day or two which generally have carried such headings as: Chilean Migrant Racket Exposed'. Those reports indicate that a number of Chilean migrants probably are to be deported from Australia. Before any deportation orders are signed in respect of Chilean migrants, will the Acting Minister ensure, firstly, that interpreter services are made available to the people concerned and, secondly, that steps are taken to ensure that they have every opportunity to explain whether they class themselves as political refugees from Chile? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Have (a) the four Nomad aircraft and (b) the six small patrol boats, referred to in the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 220, already been delivered to Indonesia. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Bill. I propose to speak briefly to it. I begin by indicating certain salient features of the Bill. There seem to be about three, although one might expect from looking at the Bill that there would be more. The Bill provides for a new program of research incentives to industry to operate from 1 July 1976. In so doing, it replaces the existing system which has operated since 1967. As I understand the Bill, the system will operate by the appointment of an Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board which will have responsibility for the administration of the grants made under the legislation, to make recommendations about grants on the application of various companies and so on and for the Board to have the services of an advisory committee to assist it in technical matters and, I suppose, other matters which the Board thinks fit to refer to such a committee. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  drew attention in his second reading speech to the fact that it is the Government's intention to try to limit the entitlement to grants, in amount, in the first financial year and that that intention is expressed at the moment in accordance with the Government's general budgetary strategy of restraint. Insofar as this piece of legislation is concerned, the Opposition sees some very sound reasons for that restraint, quite apart from the Government's overall economic strategy. I will illustrate what I mean by that by referring to one or two passages in the Minister's second reading speech. I do not want the Minister to jump out of his chair when I say this, but his second reading speech really was a dreadfully boring speech. 
-Senator Cotton says that it is not unusual. I suppose he is speaking for himself when he says that. But I would be more charitable and make my statement wider than that. It is not unusual, but it is not only  Senator Cotton  who is at fault. 
The point I want to make about the Minister's second reading speech is simply this: It is clearly a speech which has come out of a sort of bureaucratic sausage machine into the Senate and the Minister delivered it. The fact of the matter is that the speech really does not tell us very much about the scheme which has been in existence since 1967 and the scheme which is to come into existence as from 1 July 1976. Perhaps I can illustrate my point by referring to a couple of passages in the Minister's speech. The Minister stated, as recorded at page 2014 of Senate  Hansard  of 27 May 1976: 
The Government has decided that although the current incentive has been reasonably successful, it is now appropriate for a new program of incentives to be introduced which will permit a more effective use of public funds allocated for the purpose of stimulating industrial research and development. 
We are talking about replacing a scheme which has been described as having been only reasonably successful. It is a 'reasonably successful scheme' which since 1967 has resulted in the expenditure of $ 104m of public money. At the end of that time we are told that it was reasonably successful and that we now propose to replace it with another scheme which the Government legitimately hopes will be more successful. We share the Government's hopes and aspirations in regard to that. 
Anybody listening to the discussion on this Bill either in the Senate or the House of Representatives really would not have any idea what it was all about or where that $104m had really gone. The point I am trying to make is that in this type of matter perhaps we could go about illustrating to the Australian people a little more seriously where their money is being spent. If the Minister could have said in his speech that the $104m which has been spent over the years gone by has resulted in this benefit and that benefit to Australian industry in terms of new technology and design and if he could point to specific examples, the members of the public listening to the debate would know what it was all about. But they can have no idea what it is all about in the absence of that sort of information. 
I shall quote from the same page of the Minister's speech when he had this to say about the old scheme: 
As well as stimulating more companies to undertake more research and development activities, the scheme has been effective in a broader context. It has increased the employment opportunities for qualified and skilled research workers in this country. 
There is not one tittle of evidence to back that statement. Perhaps it is true. Of course, I am prepared to assume that it is true. But again, it would be very helpful for the Parliament and for the people of Australia when we are talking about large sums of money being spent if we were to have some examples of how this statement is true. We as a Parliament are now being asked to implement a different scheme, a scheme which the Government hopes will be more successful, to provide incentives to industry for research. We are really being asked to do that very much in the dark. We are not opposing the legislation because we have confidence in the Government's goodwill in relation to the matter. We do not have any confidence in the established data because there is not any relating to the type of thing on which this money is being spent. 
I ask the Minister quite seriously to consider those points so that the actions of this Parliament in terms of the spending of sums of money like that do not become a meaningless exercise but that that expenditure becomes a reality for the Australian people. I make that point because when we look at technological development in the last 25 years the success stories are all very clear to see. Sweden, West Germany, Japan and other similar countries have made vast technological advances and vast advances in industrial design. In economic terms, as a result of those sorts of developments theirs have been tremendous success stories. When people in Australia talk of Sweden they know that it produces the Volvo car and the Viggen fighter. They know these things about Sweden. They know what its technology means in real terms. People understand what Japanese technology, particularly in the electronics industry, means in real terms. They see the product. They know that it is well designed. They know that it represents a great technological advance. 
There is really nothing in this country since the stump-jump plough to which we can point in the same way and say with the same degree of national pride about it: 'Look, as a result of this $104m of public money being spent in the last few years we have achieved these sorts of advances in technology in Australia'. This is the essential point that I am concerned to make because I would like to see this country able to make such a claim demonstrating that as a result of these incentives to industry, industry was producing research, was developing projects and designing successful products in a way of which we could speak proudly as a people by saying that part of this was due to the expenditure of public money on such an incentive scheme as this legislation proposes. 
Might I make one other point? Clause 19 of the Bill gives the Minister a power to express directions and views to the Board from time to time about the sorts of criteria which it should be considering in making grants available. I hope that the Minister will keep an eye on this situation in the years remaining to him in office- and I assume that that will be 2 years-and that he will use that power to give the Board some guidance in matters of the type which I have raised. I am sure that he will because I believe that he is concerned about the same matters that concern me although with his back-up staff he might have expressed that concern differently. I hope that, if he feels it appropriate to use that power to direct the Board, he will use it to ask the Board to take account of industrial design consideration. I think that we vastly under-emphasise the importance in this country of sound industrial design and importance in the manufacture and sale of products. If the Minister feels it appropriate to take these sorts of matters into account, Australian industry and Australia as a whole can only benefit from legislation of this kind. That is why we do not oppose it, but I hope that in not opposing it the views which we take about the expenditure of public money on such development without proper accountability to the Parliament are quite clear. 
I rise at a very late stage in this debate to say a few words about the concepts which have been bandied about during the course of the debate. On a number of occasions in this Senate I have said that if there was one thing that the Labor Government had a mandate to do- during the life of the Labor Government there was a lot of discussion about what it had a mandate to do- it was to do something about a national health insurance service in Australia. That mandate, insofar as we were capable of doing so, having regard to the function of this chamber, was discharged with Medibank. If there is one thing that the present Government did not have a mandate to do, in view of the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in December 1975, it was to alter Medibank in the way in which it is now being altered. 
One of the concepts which has been much discussed during the course of the debate relates to freedom of choice. In the three or four years leading up to the introduction of Medibank there was continual discussion in the Australian community about what freedom of choice in terms of health care meant. It was suggested by the then Opposition that, as a result of the introduction of Medibank, people would be denied freedom of health care choice not only at the hospital level, where there is an argument to be put on that score, but also at the private practitioner level. I find it very strange that after this period there is once again a discussion about what freedom of choice in relation to health insurance in Australia means. Not one Government senator who has contributed to this debate has really said anything about this question; rather honourable senators opposite have uttered ba-ba sorts of slogans about freedom of choice. 
What is the sort of freedom of choice about which they are talking? Many Australian citizens have been interviewed on television in the last few years, and particularly in the last few months, regarding their attitude to Medibank. Some of them have said that the service is slow; some of them have said that they would like the service to be improved in various ways or they would like a Medibank office in their area. But I believe that nobody on any of those programs has said: 'Look, we want to be free to choose who is going to pay our medical bills for us when we get ill'. None of them has ever said that. The freedom of choice which is being offered by the Government in this legislation is the freedom of choice of the private health funds to rip it off Australian citizens. That is the only new freedom of choice which is being offered by this legislation. I see  Senator Baume  is getting very white and heated about this matter. I must say that it was he who provoked me after lunchtime today to come into the Senate and talk on this subject. He is still waffling away about this alleged freedom of choice which the Liberal Party proposes to offer the Australian people in relation to their health insurance. No doubt in later debates  Senator Baume  again will get back to that concept because the Liberal Party, as he pointed out, has this curious belief that it is the only political party in Australia- indeed probably the only political party in the whole of the Western world- which understands what freedom of choice means. Let us look at the sort of freedom of choice in relation to health insurance which was offered by the private health funds in Australia prior to Medibank. The LiberalCountry Party Government in the 1970s appointed the Nimmo Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance. 
-A11 right, in the 1960s.  Senator Baume  's command of technical detail is outstanding. What I am challenging is his command of conceptual matters. The fact of the matter is that it was the Nimmo Committee which talked about the private health funds in these terms: That they were inefficient; that they were undemocratic insofar as their members were concerned; that they offered no genuine freedom of choice to the Australian people; that there were too many competing funds, and that they were wasteful for that very reason. That is what the Nimmo Committee, which was appointed by the Liberal-Country Party Government, said about the private health funds, and it is the private health funds to which this Government now is offering freedom of choice. No honourable senator opposite can really tell us what genuine freedom of choice is being offered to Australian citizens by the changes which will be made to Medibank. No Australians really want the privilege of deciding who will pay their bills for them when they get sick. It does not matter twopence to them, and every honourable senator opposite knows this to be true. There are 2 matters in relation to this question. The first is that the notion of freedom of choice as it has been expounded is an utter phoney. The second is that freedom of choice, if it exists, is being offered to the private health funds, and the Nimmo Committee so eloquently expressed the capacity which the funds had to offer that freedom of choice to the Australian people. 
I wish to say something about one other issue which has been the subject of debate for many years in the Senate and elsewhere. It involves the question of the escalating costs of health care in the community. This has been a sort of political football, or poison ball, if you like, thrown back and forth. It was suggested all through the debate during the time of the Labor Government that somehow Medibank really would be responsible for escalating the cost of health care. This sort of thing is still being suggested in the Senate today. The fact of the matter is that none of us on either side of the Senate have really faced up to the essential things which are causing the escalating costs in health care. Of course, the essential things which are causing these vastly rising costs, quite apart from the personnel involved in health care, are the rapid technological advances which are being made by medicine and which are being used to keep people alive perhaps after they should no longer be alive. They are being used to keep people in expensive cardiac care units at $300 or $400 a day when perhaps they should not be there. These are the sort of escalating costs with which we ought to be concerned. Honourable senators might not like this, but it happens to be so. 
-I am asked whether we should kill them off. I know people- sometimes old people- whom I believe to be of great dignity. They have said to me, 'Look, I am being kept alive. I cannot get a terminal illness. ' People have said that to me. I believe that to be a statement of great human dignity and one which we will have to think about in the future. We cannot just blame the Australian Labor Party or the Liberal Party in relation to the rapidly rising costs of keeping people alive in circumstances in which perhaps as human beings we ought to be capable of making different judgments. I think that when one looks - 
-Except that,  Senator Baume,  you have not said so. In all the speeches of the honourable senator - 
In all the honourable senator's speeches and in most of  Senator Walter's  interjections there has been the suggestion that the rising costs of health services is somehow something to do with the Labor Party. Of course, that is quite apparent rubbish. 
The point I am wanting to make is this: If we are not prepared to make this stand in 1976, we will have to be prepared to make it by about 1986. If the Borrie Report is correct the population of Australia will age as rapidly as- I hope I am not upsetting  Senator Wright  - 
I have not suggested a cut-off age at which medical services should be denied to people like  Senator Wright.  Indeed, I have no doubt that in his case there would be exceptional circumstances which even a Labor 
Government would take into account. The important point I am wanting to make is that we have been debating this matter for about a day in the Senate. It was debated for about a day in the other place. Yet nobody has really said anything about this important subject. I think we have to face up to it at some time. We have to face up to the sort of implications of where the Christian Barnards of this world are taking us in terms of social costs and in terms of the dignity and reality of human life. 
-Thank you,  Senator Baume.  It is our first moment of agreement in  2Vi  years. I will cherish it. The other much less important point which I want to mention very briefly is the other reality. I refer to the question of doctors' incomes. So long as technology continues at the pace at which it is continuing now, so long as pathology services become so involved and more costly as they are becoming every day, and so long as doctors' incomes continue to spiral on an open market, we will have difficulties in relation to the problem of delivering health care in the community. 
-The honourable senator can make a comment about lawyers. Perhaps he thinks it will upset me. It does not upset me at all. I make precisely the same observation about lawyers and politicians. So long as we continue to debate in the Senate whether people working under awards administered by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should receive $3 a week extra but we are quite happy to enjoy an income which is amongst the top 3 per cent of incomes paid in the community, as are the incomes paid to lawyers and doctors, we will never solve these problems of escalating health costs or of escalating legal costs. 
The other important point which I seek to make following on those comments is that so long as we have a fee for service system, so long as we continue to operate as we are in this area and so long as we continue to reject the notion of an incomes policy for anybody except those on award wages, we will have these problems in health care delivery and we will have these problems with a legal service, and so on. Madam  Deputy President,  I must say that I was provoked to make these few remarks by some of the things that I have heard from the lips of  Senator Baume  and others today. 
Finally, let me say one other thing: I believe the health of every Australian to be a national responsibility. I do not believe national responsibilities are fulfilled by our looking after the interests of private health funds in the way the Government proposes. I was hopeful that the Government would have seen fit in pursuance of its apparently egalitarian objectives in regard to the cost of health care to impose a levy with a much higher cut-off amount than was suggested by the ALP when we were in government. It has been said in the Senate on numerous occasions by Labor senators and Liberal senators that Medibank is not perfect. I do not think we ever claimed that for a moment. But we did claim that it was a better system than the system that existed previously. We are very fearful of the confusion which would be caused to the Australian people, the hidden costs which will be involved in dismantling or dismembering Medibank in the way in which it has been done. There are substantial hidden costs. We will have these confusions all in the name and in the pursuit of the idological myth about freedom of choice and all this sort of rubbish. It is for those reasons that I wanted to raise these questions very briefly in the debate and towards the end of it. 
-Yes, I second the motion. In so doing I make one comment. This is an important matter to be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts particularly in the current climate when the employment of musicians is of great concern to people involved in the whole area of public performance. It is a source of regret to me that the Government has not seen fit to support an enlargement of this reference to embrace artists of other kinds such as actors and persons whose livelihood is dependent upon the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial television and radio stations as well. However, that being so the Committee can at least deliberate more quickly on this matter as it is a relatively narrow reference. Perhaps the Committee can deal with the other matter in another context. I have pleasure in seconding the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition will be opposing both of these clauses and dividing on them. 
I do not know. This is an extraordinary admission, is it not, from  Senator Lajovic?  Next time I talk to the wharfies I shall mention it to them but it is the honourable senator's suggestion and not mine. The Waterside Workers Federation elects these people in its ballot situation, which is exactly the same sort of ballot situation as this legislation is designed to arrive at with all unions. This just emphasises the point which I made earlier, that is, that the assumptions underlying this legislation are wrong. Any examples which one can point to to support those assumptions in fact do exactly the opposite- they prove them to be wrong. The Waterside Workers Federation is a classic example of that situation. The Opposition will vote on these matters as I have indicated. In certain respects we commend the legislation but most of it we object to in the manner I have indicated. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to what purports to be an authoritative statement about the Australian Assistance Plan which was published in this week's issue of the  RingwoodCroydon Mail,  a newspaper with which I am sure the honourable senator would be familiar. The newspaper article reads: 
Allocations for subsequent years will flow from federal reimbursements directed to the State Government for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
I ask: Did the Minister announce recently that federal funding for the Australian Assistance Plan would end on 30 June? Accordingly, which of those 2 statements is correct? Will she clarify the matter? 
I rise to speak briefly to the motion and the statement presented by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  I should say on behalf of the Opposition that we welcome this statement on the arts from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for several reasons. First of all, it ends a great deal of the speculationperhaps it does not prevent it from occurring a little further in the immediate future- about the Government's attitude to the arts and about various developments in the Australia Council and elsewhere which have been the subject of public discussion and Press comment in the past few months. To that extent, we welcome the statement. We welcome it also because it has outlined the Government's commitment to continued financial support for the arts at a pretty high level. Of course, we welcome it also because of the express statements of commitment to certain areas of the arts, particularly the National Gallery and the Australia Council. 
I wish to make one or two comments in relation to areas to which we hope the Government will give further consideration and which are, I believe, of some concern to people interested in the development of the arts in Australia. I make one personal comment about the proposal, which is mentioned early in the statement, in relation to tax incentives. It is stated that the Government is examining these as a possible means of sponsoring the private patronage of the arts in Australia. I am one of those people who have a very suspicious view of taxation incentives as a means of sponsoring patronage of the arts. I hope that the Government will give consideration to some other possibilities which might be investigated as means of encouraging support for the creative arts. For example, in this country we have not considered seriously the possibility of artists, particularly painters, working to a pattern which assures them that certain patrons will buy their paintings over a period. We have always been obsessed with the idea of giving grants to artists which enable them to go away and paint but with no specific purpose and without necessarily any particular return to the community. I hope that the Government might give consideration to encouraging a system whereby artists are commissioned to do a series of paintings for a particular patron. Of course, that form of commissioning gives an artist a guaranteed income over a period and benefits the community because the patron, whether it be the government, a private company or an individual, gains the benefit of the finished work of art. I think it is a system which brings benefit to all parties involved. 
Insofar as the statement deals with the question of the Australia Council, as an Opposition we will want to wait and see the contents of the legislation which must follow from the statement which has been made. Many of the criticisms which have been made about the Australia 
Council in the last few months probably fail to take account of the fact that artists are, by their very nature, individuals. 
-There is, of course, as I hope  Senator Georges  will understand, a high degree of individualism amongst artists and a high degree of difference of opinion about the role of the arts and the role of artists in the community. A lot of the criticisms and controversy must be seen in this light. Of course, the statement pays a tribute to the significant work of the Australia Council. I would ask honourable senators who are interested in this matter to look at the report of the Australia Council which was tabled in the Senate only a week or two ago. It sets out in considerable detail some of the work which the Council has performed over the last year. The statement suggests that there should be a tightening up of many of the administrative arrangements of the Australia Council and the relationship between the Council itself and the Australia Council boards. 
Of course, it is inevitable, when a government embarks, as the Labor Government did embark, on a very large program of financial assistance to the arts through the medium of a body such as the Australia Council, that changes will have to be made to the structure which is laid down at the commencement. Insofar as the statement suggests that many of these matters can be resolved by making the boards smaller in size and by making their responsibilities to the Council more explicit and at the same time preserving their independence in matters of artistic judgment, this seems to us to be totally unobjectionable. It may be a change which a government of any complexion would have brought about at this period of the history of the Australia Council. I think it is somewhat naive to assume that turnovers in the personnel of the Council and the boards will be limited in any way by changing the period of appointment. I think this is perhaps a slightly naive solution in response to the reasons for which turnovers of personnel have occurred. 
There is one matter of which we are critical. That is the proposal to abolish the Film, Radio and Television Board and to transfer the responsibilities of that Board to the Australian Film Commission. It is intended to do this, as so many things have been done by this Government, because of the obsession with what is sometimes called good housekeeping and with what I think psychologists call anal eroticism which seems to posses this Government to a very high degree. The statement goes to some lengths to explain that this is being done because it is felt that all the film activities which the Commonwealth Government supports should be put into one basket and that a nice neat basket to put them into is the Australian Film Commission. 
I think that it totally misses the point about the work and function of the Film, Radio and Television Board which is not only that of producing films of a classic nature but also that of engaging in experimental film work. That is not the work of the Australian Film Commission. The Australian Film Commission is, by its very nature, subject to commercial criteria. Experimental film making cannot be subject to commercial criteria if it is to be a success. Accordingly, we regret the Government's decision to transfer the functions of the Film, Radio and Television Board to the Australian Film Commission. On the other hand, there seems to us to be considerable point in transferring the audio-visual functions of the Postal and Telecommunications Department to the Australian Film Commission, particularly as those audio-visual functions have a particular relationship to education and an increasing use in the education area. 
There is a lot of waffle in this statement about devolution of decision making and grant making to State governments and local government. It is difficult to make any comment about it because we do not know whether it is the same sort of waffle as we have heard in other areas of Government pronouncements on this question of devolution of whether it means something different in these circumstances. Once again we will await with interest the legislation which is proposed to deal with this question of devolution. I make one other comment about the Australia Council. It concerns the proposal to appoint a general manager as a statutory officer and to appoint a  deputy chairman  of the Council. We understand that this was recommended to the Government by the Australia Council itself. 
-Senator Georges says that we should have a close look at it. Of course, we will do that when the legislation comes before the Senate. But the proposal is in line with recommendations made by the Australia Council itself and perhaps it is a correct solution to a difficult problem. We are not sure. We again await with interest the presentation of the legislation and, of course, the appointment which will be made to the position of General Manager. We welcome the fact that the General Manager, whoever he or she is, will be an  ex officio  member of the Council and not a remote servant of the Council as the present Executive Officer has in a sense had to be. 
There are 2 other matters dealt with in the statement which we note with interest. Let me mention first that we note that  Senator Withers  has been successful in his lobbying to retain the Historic Memorials Committee within the province of his own portfolio. I do not know what the Historic Memorials Committee is, I am not particularly interested; but I am always pleased to see a Minister succeed in retaining something within his own bailiwick.  Senator Withers  has done that and the statement was altered this morning to comply with that wish of the Senator's. 
The other 2 aspects with which the statement deals are 'Film and Television' and the 'Australian National Gallery'. Insofar as the film and television aspect of the statement is concerned, I have already commented on the proposal to abolish the Board. There are one or two other matters in the specific section on film and television upon which I wish to make some comments at this stage. For example, at page 9 of the printed statement it is said: 
The Film and Television School will assume responsibility for training in radio and audio-visual communicationsagain, areas previously neglected. 
It is only a fortnight since the Government made very substantial cuts in the allocation to the Film and Television School. They were cuts of the order of $200,000. Those cuts on the Film and Television School will mean that the School will not be able to carry on its outside programs, that is to say, its programs of courses for people who come to the School to do specific courses, parttime students as distinct from full-time students of the Film and Television School. Those consequences have already followed for the Film and Television School from the cuts already made by the Government. To impose this additional burden on the School without any consequent promise of additional finance to enable it to discharge this burden is something which I hope the Government will examine very closely. 
Finally, on the question of the Australian National Gallery, again we welcome the Government's statement of support for and its commitment to that Gallery. Might I say that we also, as far as we are able to do so, welcome the appointments which have been made to the first permanent Council of the Australian National Gallery. I cannot speak about all the appointees, but I would have been hopeful that if we had been in office at least six or seven of the people who have been appointed by this Government would have been appointed by our Government too. It is quite clear that they have been carefully chosen on the basis of the contribution which they have to make to a council such as that of the Australian National Gallery. From my own State of Victoria, I particularly note the appointment of  Mr Fred  Williams and Professor Patrick Mccaughey and from the State of South Australia  Mr David  Wynn, all of whom have made quite outstanding contributions to the arts in Australia and are highly appropriate persons to be on the Council of the National Gallery. I cannot speak of many of the others but I am hopeful that the quality of appointees to the Gallery is consistent throughout; I believe it to be so. 
Might I make one comment about that aspect? The arts is an area in which, I would hope, the Senate and this Parliament as a whole would be slowly working towards a bipartisan policy. I have just made the statement that we would have made, I believe, appointments similar to the ones which this Government has made to the Australian National Gallery. It seems quite silly that these sorts of things should be done as a matter of ideological difference between Government and Opposition, having regard to the major content of the statement which the Prime Minister has now made. I hope that in the future a more bipartisan approach can be developed towards these matters and, indeed, that we might develop some of the sophistication of the British Parliament, where appointments of this kind are discussed between the Prime Minister of the day and the Leader of the Opposition of the day and agreement reached on them before the appointments are announced. I hope that in years to come we will arrive at this point of sophistication in Australia because I believe it would be in the interests of the community, particularly the community of creative arts in Australia, and for the benefit of the country as a whole. 
-I draw attention to the substance of the Opposition's objection to this clause; that is, that it simply adds to the existing words of the section the right of the Minister absolutely to be represented by counsel. The concern about that is that it creates a new status for the Government, represented by the Minister and counsel. Whether or not that is the intention of the section I do not know, but it is certainly the result. Accordingly, we oppose this provision. However, it is not intended to divide on it. 
Senator Wright has concurred in the observations that I made in the second reading debate and in the chamber some weeks ago and I am glad that he takes on board the importance of them.  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I suggest that the Senate vote on clauses 8, 9 and 10 together. Clause 1 1 we support but clauses 8, 9 and 10 we intend to vote against on the voices only. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 agreed to. 
Clauses 12 and 1 3- by leave- taken together. 
-The Senate is debating the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, which is the first piece of legislation concerning industrial relations introduced by this Government. Since the Government came to office there has been a great deal of talk about its industrial relations policy. It is refreshing in one respect to find that something is now being done about it as a concrete expression of what that policy is meant to mean. In his second reading speech the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has drawn attention to the fact that the Government has had a series of negotiations with the trade union movement about the legislation and that the legislation has in part been modified in line with those negotiations. There are one or two points to which, on behalf of the Opposition, I would like to draw the attention of the Senate. I would also like to point out our areas of disagreement with the policy that lies behind this Bill. For convenience, I suppose it is appropriate to deal with those matters in the order in which the Minister has set them out in his second reading speech. Might I say to the Minister that I have found it invaluable that there has been a summary of those points in his second reading speech to the Senate. 
The main things that this Bill proposes to do are as follows: Firstly, in the Minister's view, it proposes to rectify weaknesses in the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act regarding representation by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations of the public interest in relation to appeals and references. The purpose of these amendments is to give the Minister a right to intervene in proceedings where the public interest is, in his view, affected and, further, a right to have a say in relation to appeals and references to the full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In the Minister's words, 'the Government does not have the opportunity to express a view as to whether there should in fact be an appeal or reference to a Full Bench in the public interest'. Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill remedy this omission. It will, of course, still be for the Commission to decide whether to hear an appeal or reference in the public interest. The Government will be in no different position from any other party in this regard. 
The Opposition opposes these provisions in the legislation and will vote against them. The reason why we oppose them is simply that we feel that it is an incorrect approach to industrial relations to have the Government intervene in proceedings to which it is not a party-that is to say employers and employees in an industry are each placed in a position where they understand the particular nature of the industrial dispute that they may be engaged in and they understand the nature of the industry and all the circumstances that relate to it. The point that I am putting is, strangely enough at first sight, a rather private enterprise view on how the industrial relations system in this country should be conducted. Lest I am reminded of this fact by honourable senators opposite, let me say that it is common knowledge that a Labor Minister, the Minister for Labor and Immigration in the previous Government, suggested that similar amendments should be made to the Act by the Labor Government. I should say at the outset that that was done in the context of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission having fixed a policy of wage indexation as a decision of the Commission. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission then asked the former Minister: What are you going to do as a government to ensure that the guidelines that we have laid down are carried out?' That was the tentative response which was not proceeded with. 
That is the position which this Government has now adopted, but it has adopted the position in an entirely different context. It has adopted the position in the context not of a request from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to do something about enforcement of guidelines but of a situation in which it has embarked upon an economic policy which involves a reduction in real wages for those who are subject to the awards of the Commission. In spite of an election promise that wage indexation would be supported by the Government, which was made by  Mr Fraser  in December last year, a quite open attack has been made on the principles of full wage indexation. So it is an entirely different context in which this Government seeks the right of intervention and appeal in proceedings before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It does this in an area which has traditionally been the preserve of the parties engaged in the industry in question. That is the major objection which we have to this legislation. 
There is an accompanying objection. This Bill gives the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations the right to be represented by counsel without the leave of the Commission. That is to say, the Minister will have the right to appear before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, represented by counsel, without the leave of the Commission. That is a departure from everything which has previously occurred in the Commission. It is undesirable from the point of view that if a party intervenes as of right, that is to say, if the Minister intervenes as of right, he has a completely different status in the proceedings of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from people who have to seek leave to intervene and who do not intervene as of right. That is the position of the Opposition in relation to the first point set out in the Minister's second reading speech. We will vote against those provisions of the legislation. 
The second point to which the Minister referred relates to an amendment contained in the Bill which provides that in Full Bench proceedings the Commission must have regard to the state of the economy and the likely effect of any award. It refers specifically to the level of employment and inflation. This is a piece of window dressing and hocus pocus. I hope that it does not reflect the ignorance of the Government about the role of the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. One can go right back to the period after the Second World War and follow through the basic wage cases, the margins cases and the national wage cases which took the place of basic wage cases, and one will find that in every one ofthe decisions in those cases the Commission has been asked by the Government and by the parties, be they employers or unions, to have regard to the state of the economy. In every decision without exception, the Commission has said: 'In considering the submissions, in arriving at our conclusions and in giving our decision we have had regard to the matters put to us about the state of the economy and, of course, the level of inflation'. Everybody knows that in the national wage cases in the last few years the Commission has said these things again and again. It has been asked to have regard to these matters and it has had regard to them. In the Opposition's view this provision is sheer window dressing. We will vote against it because it is unnecessary verbiage. I will spend no more time on it than that. 
The third point in the Minister's second reading speech relates to the amendments contained in the Bill to ensure 'that every member of a union and employer organisation has a real opportunity, without intimidation, to choose who should conduct the affairs of the organisation'. I refer to those words specifically because they are somewhat provocative and have no support whatsoever. There is not one tittle of evidence in the Minister's second reading speech to indicate that members of unions or employer organisations do not have a real opportunity to choose now. There is not one tittle of evidence to indicate that any members have been subject to intimidation during union ballots. I agree that if we want to go back to the late 1 940s or even the early 1950s we will find that there was substantial evidence to indicate that members of certain unions may have been subject to intimidation by one side or another, but there is no evidence in the Minister's second reading speech or in the debate in the House of Representatives or in any other allegations to indicate that there has been intimidation and so on in the conduct of union ballots. 
The Government hopes that the introduction of what it calls secret ballot legislation will have the result of involving members of unions much more in the conduct of ballots, and that the consequences of that will be that certain union officials who may be unpalatable to the Government will be so regarded also by members of their unions and there will be a consequent change in the composition of the boards of management and the officials of unions. The present legislation provides that members of a union who desire a ballot to be conducted by the Industrial Registrar can petition for a ballot. This requires 250 signatures or 10 per cent of the membership, whichever is the lesser number. 
I am indebted to  Senator Harradine.  The figure is 5 per cent. The provision has been used from time to time but one cannot, I suggest, legislate against apathy in this way. If people do not want to petition for a ballot one must assume in a democratic society thai they do not want to do so for the very valid reason that they are content with the union officials they have or with the candidates Ibr an election; that they are content with the present system. Onemust assume that to be so. Indeed, there is no reason to assume otherwise. It is desired that the present position should be replaced by a position in which ballot papers will be forwarded to all members of unions, and a secret postal ballot will take place. It is my view that some unions will welcome this legislation and find it convenient because it is accompanied by the undertaking that the Government will pay the costs of such ballots if they are conducted by the Industrial Registrar or the Commonwealth Electoral Office. Many unions are already taking advantage of those provisions as they exist in the present Act. 
The point we seek to make about the legislation is that it seems to us and to some unions to be an unwarranted interference in the affairs of the unions. The provisions in force at the moment appear to work satisfactorily. The assumptions underlying the proposed changes, that as a result of this legislation somehow there will be a dramatic change in results of union elections, are in our view totally unwarranted, totally unproven and unlikely to be fulfilled. The fact of the matter is that the factors which motivate people in union elections are vastly different from the factors which motivate people in national elections. We believe that to be the position. As I have said, nonetheless we do not think that, insofar as most unions are concerned, the provisions will be particularly onerous. We just think they are mistaken. 
The next point referred to in the Minister's second reading speech is the limitation of the term of office of office bearers of organisations to a maximum of 4 years. So trade union officials can be elected for a term of 4 years and no longer under this legislation. We understand the period of 4 years to be a compromise arising from the negotiations between the representatives of the trade union movement and the Government. The unions, in fact, suggested 5 years and the Government 3 years; and the compromise was 4 years. There is something to be said for the term of office of a trade union official being prescribed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, because for years there has been litigation in the Industrial Court about what union rules should provide as to the term of office of a union official and about what is an appropriate period for a union official to hold office. The Court has said, in a confusing variety of decisions, that the term of office of officials in some unions is appropriately 3 or 4 years and in others 5 years. I believe that in the case of some unions the Court has said 6 years, but that may not be a correct recollection. 
I think there is an advantage for unions in having a fixed term prescribed by the Act. That will get rid of many of the difficulties that have been occasioned by a great deal of litigation over the term of office of union officials. I would have hoped that the Government might have adopted a somewhat more imaginative approach in dealing with this question of the term of office of union officials. There is a very great reality of which politicians, by the nature of their profession, should be acutely aware. I am sure most of us are. Union officials also are aware of this, and thus they are put in a very difficult position. I refer to the fact that trade union officials constantly have the knowledge that they have to face an election in a prescribed period of time. That sometimes makes it very difficult for them, because they are subject to all sorts of pressures about the decisions they have to make which are of fundamental importance to the union, to the industry in which they are engaged and indeed to the country. 
-They are subject to these pressures and, as  Senator Mulvihill-  with his usual succinct summary of these things which I have difficulty in expressing- has said so eloquently, they have to produce the goods. That is a difficulty for them. As I say, I hoped that the Government would adopt a more imaginative approach to this matter. It is not just a question of defining a term of office; it is a question of trying to determine what happens to a union official who is caught in an unfortunate position and who with the utmost good faith has not delivered the goods. He is subject to these pressures because of the nature of the industry in which he works and so on. 
The legislation provides for the appointment of an additional judge to the Industrial court. We are not opposed to this. We think it is a good thing. I will indicate briefly some dissent from the views expressed by the Minister as to why he thinks it is a good thing. I have done this in the Senate before and I will keep on doing so until either this Government or the next one does something about it. I refer to what the Minister said in the second reading speech when dealing with the appointment of an additional judge. He said: 
Clause 1 1 of the Bill provides for an increase in the maximum number of judges ofthe Industrial Court. The Government is anxious that the person appointed to be  President  of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal should be of the highest calibre, and thus it is appropriate that he should have judicial status. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has already announced that the Government proposes to bring the Act establishing the Tribunal into operation this year. The increase by one in the permissible number of judges in the Industrial Court will enable the  President  ofthe Tribunal to be a judge of the Court. He will also be available to take part in the work of the Court other than appeals on administrative matters. 
The trouble with the Industrial Court is that it is a grab-bag for every legal' bobtail that is thrown to it. The judges of the Industrial Court are required to conduct inquiries. They are required to conduct royal commissions. One of the judges of the Industrial Court now will be required to sit on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The judges are required to deal with restrictive trade practices, with the Northern Territory and with the Australian Capital Territory. 
The industrial jurisdiction is a very specialised and important jurisdiction. It is a downgrading of the function and purpose of the Industrial Court to appoint judges to that Court and to use it as a sort of reservoir of judges to be farmed out to all sorts of other jurisdictions. That is what the Court is being used for. There is a decline in respect in industrial circles for the Industrial Court. There is confusion about its judgments. There is no understanding of where it is going. There is no confidence in approaching that Court seeking justice in an industrial situation not only because of political reasons- it has been a political court in the past-but also because of the calibre of the work done in that Court because it does not consist of specialists in this very difficult and important jurisdiction. 
This Government again is making a mistake in using this Court as a place to which judges can be appointed and then farmed out into every imaginable legal jurisdiction and not giving proper attention to the very important work which the Industrial Court in fact is charged with performing under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We draw attention to this serious mistake which we believe the Government is making in relation to the appointment of an extra judge to the Industrial Court. It is not grasping the nettle on this question. It is continuing a bad practice into which it has fallen and indeed into which successive governments have fallen in the past. I remind the Senate of the views which  Senator James  McClelland and other distinguished senators put to the Senate last year on the role and functions of a Superior Court in Australia. I think  Senator James  McClelland summed it up very well after the Superior Court debate concluded. He said: 'We won the battle, but we lost the war'. The tyranny of numbers prevailed again in relation to that. The Industrial Court now has been converted into a mini-inferior court- if I may call it thatwith the functions of the Superior Court being put upon it. I believe all the consequences of that to be disastrous for the industrial relations scene and the industrial jurisdiction in Australia. 
I have indicated that the Opposition will vote against the provisions relating to representation by the Minister in appeals and references. The Opposition is opposed to the window dressing of requiring the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to have regard to employment and inflation as if it has not done so over many years. We also will vote against the provision relating to ballots. We think it is unnecessary, based on entirely false premises and an alteration which is not likely to succeed. We will not vote against the provision relating to the term of office of office bearers or organisations. We will not vote against the provision for the appointment of an extra judge to the Industrial Court. We would like very much to vote in favour of a much wiser policy in relation to that Court; but it is, of course, not available for us to do so in the context of this legislation. 
I make just one other observation about the Bill. The Bill provides, in clause 13, for certain organisations, if the Industrial Registrar is satisfied, to conduct their elections in a manner which will not be prescribed by the new Act. That is to say, they will be able to conduct them at a particular place on a particular day without using the secret ballot provisions as they will be applied to other organisations. This is a concession made by the Government which is designed to apply to organisations like the Waterside Workers Federation. I think it is a sensible concession because organisations like the Waterside Workers Federation conduct their ballots on one day and in one place. Every member of the organisation stops work, I gather, and is able to vote in the one location in a secret ballot. 
The interesting thing about that provision, which the Government has inserted by way of concession to organisations like the Waterside Workers Federation, is simply that it proves the very point which we make about the substantial amendments on secret ballots. If we look at the history of the Waterside Workers Federation we see it has conducted its ballots in that way for years. The Federation has not met with any objections from the present Government, nor did it meet with any objections from it when it was in opposition and wanted to take us to task about this legislation. It was always the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union that was singled out then. But to take the Waterside Workers Federation in my State, its members elect the most extraordinary conglomerate of officials in terms of political allegiance that one could possibly imagine. There are people on the executive of the Waterside Workers Federation in Victoria who represent the National Civic Council on the one hand and the Peking line Communist Party on the other. There are factional differences between Moscow and Peking and anarchists elected to positions on the waterfront. Everybody of all sorts of conceivable political positions are elected. 
-No Liberals, which of course-  Senator Georges-  They would not have a 
Liberal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the typical lead times from project initiation to completion and occupation of the following major types of projects ofthe construction industry: (a) primary school, (b) secondary school, (c) new hospital, (d ) high-rise office block, (e) suburban factory block, (0 suburban warehouse, (g) regional shopping centre, (h) new refinery, (i) minerals processing, (j) major urban road construction and (k) sewerage treatment works. 
For the types of projects identified in (1), what are typical times involved in each of the stages of (a) preliminary investigations and negotiations, (b) planning and design and (c) construction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the capacity of the planning and design sections of the non-residential construction industry, as measured by employment of, say, architects, quantity surveyors, planners and engineers, etc., at the mid-point of each year 1970-1975 inclusive. 
What is forecast to be the capacity level of these same sections of the non-residential construction industry at June 1976. 
How long is it expected to be before the level of capacity of these same sections of the non-residential construction industry as existed in mid- 1 974 is reached again. 
-I present the following petition from 204 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That since the Australian Assistance Plan is making it possible for citizens to help themselves, thereby ensuring best possible use of limited Government resources, as shown by the fact that over 200 community projects have been initiated or funded through the AAP in the Outer Eastern Region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament will take immediate steps to continue the Australian 
Assistance Plan as recommended in the Report tabled by the Honourable the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle in Parliament on the 4 March, 1976 and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I hope that the Minister's cold will not prevent him from answering this question. In asking it I refer to 3 facts. The first is that the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry by  Mr Justice  Fox has not yet been completed. The second is the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  that he would be happy to sell uranium to the Soviet Union and would accept guarantees by the Soviet Union that it would not be used for nuclear weapons. The third is the frequent statements by the Prime Minister that the Soviet Union constitutes a threat to the security of Australia and the peace of this region. I ask the Minister Has not the  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement pre-empted the Government's acting objectively on the basis of the report of the Ranger inquiry? Which does the Government regard as more important- the interests of the Australian uranium mining industry as expressed by  Mr Anthony  or the alleged threat to Australian security as a whole as expressed by the Prime Minister? 
-The Senate is debating an urgency motion moved by the Opposition relating to the Government's economic policies which are producing increased unemployment and are undermining business confidence. Anybody who was listening to the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  the previous  speaker  in this debate, would have heard a fairly hysterical outburst which revealed his somewhat halucinatory vision of the policies of the LiberalNational Country Party Government. Listening to him, one would have thought that the Liberal Party was in fact the Robin Hood of modern politics, taking from the rich and giving to the poor. In fact, as  Senator Carrick  revealed in his speech, the situation was rather that he fulfils the role of Christopher Robin of modern politics, not Robin Hood. One was tempted to think: 'Hush, hush, whisper who dares,  Senator Carrick  is saying his prayers '. He was saying his prayers for the much vaunted recovery in unemployment that the Liberal Party has talked about since November last year and for a recovery in the economy which it has proclaimed and talked about since November last year. 
Here in the Senate we are back at work and in that we are more fortunate than 5.4 per cent of the Australian people or a minimum of 315 000 Australians who have no work to go to. It is to these matters that I want to address myself tonight, not only because of the 315 000 people who were shown in the July unemployment figures and the others who were not shown in those figures, but also because of the sort of figures that we predict will occur in the next few months, indeed, which every commentator on the Budget believes will occur and which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in making the Budget Speech last night implied will occur. I think that that situation was very well summarised by the Economics Editor of the Melbourne  Age  today when he said in relation to what the Budget produced: 
The unemployed will have to wait another year. In fact, by the middle of next year there could be a lot more on the dole queues than there are now. Most of the additional unemployed will be school leavers. And they will face a reduction in their unemployment benefit in real terms as a result of the decision not to adjust the benefit in line with consumer price  movements  as was promised at the election. 
I said that I wanted to confine myself to the matter of unemployment because in the course of this debate we have had a number of lectures from Government spokesmen about financial responsibility and so on. I particularly single out the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  for his Sunday school approach in giving the Senate a tutorial about financial responsibility. He did that at some length. But  Senator Cotton  was not always so responsible. He did not always sound like a Sunday school teacher. In fact last year in the course of the general election campaign he sounded much more like a used car salesman. I quote some of the things he said on this matter of unemployment. First of all, I quote from the Melbourne  Age  of 29 November 1975, some 12 or 13 days before the general election, which reported him as follows: 
A Liberal-National Country Party Government would slash unemployment and inflation by expanding and protecting industry and small businesses, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Senator Cotton,  said yesterday. 
He said a coalition Government would reduce unemployment to less than 1 per cent of the workforce by developing an efficient and diversified manufacturing industry. 
That was what  Senator Cotton  told us in November and December last year. It was a different story in the Senate today. But  Senator Cotton  in telling us those things in November and December last year did not lack colleagues. I suppose there was some degree of safety in numbers because the then Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, was reported in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 8 December, under the heading '200 000 Cut in Jobless ', as follows: 
Australia 's unemployment figures could be slashed by up to 200 000 under a Liberal-National Country Party Government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. He said that at the same time he would try to cut inflation by 1 1 per cent. 
Again, on 27 November 1975 another statement of the Prime Minister was reported as follows: 
Inflation and unemployment would drop under a LiberalNational Country Party Government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. 
The changes in the direction of policies would start to have an immediate impact, ' he said. 
At about the same time the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  said: 
We will put people back to work by encouraging a thriving and productive private sector. This will be the key factor in Australia's economic recovery. 
How different this statement is from what was said today and from what was said last night in the course of the Budget Speech- how different in the space of 8 months.  Mr Street,  the Minister of Employment and Industrial Relations, who presides over the current level of unemployment in this country was reported as follows in the  Australian  of 5 December 1975: 
The Liberal-National Country Party coalition last night offered a five-point plan to deal with Australia's record unemployment- including retention of Labor's controversial Regional Employment Development Scheme and special aid for mass unemployment centres. 
Referring to  Mr Street,  the article stated: 
He said that to combat the worst unemployment in Australia's history the coalition planned a series of special measures including: 
RETRAINING of workers whose skills were no longer needed. 
RETENTION of the RED scheme . . . 
RELOCATING workers unable to find jobs to suit their skills, and financial aid to them at such a time. 
LOCAL government-run employment schemes in areas of high unemployment where no mass employment opportunities exist. 
BETTER access to job information. 
That was the Liberal-National Country Party coalition plan for restoring employment in Australia as enunciated in December last year. The Minister was reported to have continued: 
I am hopeful that job opportunities will start to increase early in the life of the new Government but it will probably take about six months for this to happen. Unemployment levels will only start to drop with increased business confidence and that could take some time to surface. 
It is now some 8 months later and there are no signs of business confidence surfacing, particularly in relation to unemployment figures. I mention these matters because that is what the Liberal-Country Party coalition promised the people of Australia in December last year and that is why its members are now sitting on the 
Government benches. These are the promises which they, as a government, have broken. These are the excuses that they used to delay Supply in the Senate last year and to justify the standover course of conduct which they took in Opposition in delaying the Budget. These were the promises upon which they were elected. All these things took place on the assumption that members of the Liberal-Country Party coalition could behave like that in November and December last year and be returned as a government because they would be able to govern better than we could. Those are the assumptions upon which they sit on the Government benches. They have failed the people of Australia in not giving validity to those assumptions. 
It is now 8 months later and, to put it at its highest, there is only a marginal improvement in business confidence. There is a low level of consumer spending. We have the highest July unemployment figures in the history of this country since 1 93 1 . The Treasurer last night introduced a one-point plan for continued unemployment. Compare the Treasurer's one-point plan of last night with the five-point plan for curing unemployment which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations put before the people of Australia in November and December last year. Let us look at the specific promises which were made- the 5 unfulfilled promises. The first concerns retraining. The NEAT scheme has been cut back from an allocation of $52m a year to $40m a year. That is the Government's expanded view of retraining. As to the retention of the Regional Employment Development scheme, the present Government has no job creation programs at all, other than pathetic attempts to give mouth to mouth resuscitation to the private sector of the economy. There is nothing else at ail. The RED scheme has not been maintained.  Mr Street  promised the relocation of workers. No such scheme has been introduced. There is no structural adjustment scheme and there are no schemes to help special industries in difficulty. 

 Mr Street promised local government employment schemes and suggested in that promise that particular attention would be given to particular industries and particular localities. Let us consider particular industries in particular localities today where unemployment clearly can be seen to be running at a very high level. Let us consider shipbuilding. What special attention has been given by this Government to Whyalla and Newcastle, where people have been put out of work as a result of decisions reached about the future of the shipbuilding industry? What special attention has been given to those localities? What special attention has been given to the construction industry, which is in a parlous state and has a very high level of unemployment? It has received no assistance whatsoever from this Government, except for significant cutbacks in payments made available by the Government. That is all in pursuit of the myth that somehow the private sector in all its manifestations will be encouraged by cutbacks in Government expenditure. The fifth promise made by  Mr Street  related to better access to job information. That promise might have been fulfilled because people know now that the jobs are not available. The simple answer on job information is that the jobs are not there, and that fact is pretty clear. That could be said to be a promise which has been fulfilled. 
I have talked about unemployment as a general tragedy for this country, but I want to refer to one particular aspect of it. That aspect relates to some special figures contained within the overall unemployment figures. It relates to the question of school leavers, to the thousands upon thousands of kids who will be leaving school in this country in two or three months' time. The last published figures indicate that 5.4 per cent of the work force in Australia is unemployed. But for young people the unemployment figure in this country as at July of this year stands at 15 per cent for girls and 12 per cent for boys. Those are the published statistics for July on unemployment amongst teenage people in this country. In that context, this Government offers no more assistance for apprenticeship training, only the promise that the question will be looked at and reviewed in the near future. That is all that is offered by the Government in answer to the question of teenage unemployment in Australia. I want to draw to the Senate's attention the disastrous social consequences of that level of unemployment amongst young people. Those consequences are quite horrifying, particularly in the big cities of this country, in terms of the problems of delinquency, crime, alienation from the work force, and the lack of promise of a future which could give respect to each of the individuals concerned. That is a quite horrifying situation about which the Senate ought to be concerned in considering this urgency motion. 
I do not expect the problems of teenage unemployed people to be understood fully by a government of wealthy graziers and dropouts from small business. I do not really expect the problems of teenage unemployed to be understood fully by those people; I do not expect their problems to be understood by a Prime Minister who has never in his life been employed in an ordinary job. I do not expect those things to be understood by this Government, but I do hope that there are honourable senators on the other side of the House who understand them. Those problems are of vital social and political importance to the future welfare of this country. I began by saying that when this Government came to office-and this is part of its current illegitimacy, if I may use that expression in the widest possible sense- it came to office on the basis of promises that it would do better than the Labor Government in respect of these things, and particularly in respect of unemployment. It has failed to do so, and accordingly I commend this motion most firmly to the Senate. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Psychotropic Substances Bill 1976; indeed, it supports it. I understand that the purpose of the Bill is to adopt one portion of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances that was adopted at Vienna on 21 February 1971. I refer to the Articles of the Convention, which are appended to the Bill and which refer to consignments entering or leaving the territory of a party that are not accompanied by an export authorisation being detained by the competent authorities. That reference is to be found at the back of the Bill. I referred to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances adopted at Vienna. I think that most honourable senators will know what a convention is. It will be recalled that we used to have conventions in the Senate. I believe that some honourable senators will know where Vienna is. It was, as I recall, the location for the film  The Third Man,  which centred around a person called Harry Lime. It is probably because of that film that this Convention was adopted at Vienna in 1 97 1 . 
I suspect that there are one or two honourable senators who do not know what a psychotropic substance is. In case there be any doubt about that, let me say that the Bill has a Schedule at the back which sets out what are psychotropic substances. I refer honourable senators to it. In fact, the Bill has 4 Schedules dealing with psychotropic substances, the names of which are listed in various categories in each of the Schedules. I think that some honourable senators will recognise the references in Schedule 1 to LSD and mescaline. I think that LSD is commonly known as 'acid'. Mescaline is the drug that was used by Aldous Huxley when he wrote his book  The Doors of Perception.  I think that few honourable senators will recognise the other drugs mentioned. Indeed, because of that and because I have some doubts about psychotropic substances, earlier in the day I asked  Senator Chaney  what they were.  Senator Chaney  said that he thought that psychotropic substances were mad dogs or Englishmen. If the Schedule does not make the position clear to honourable senators, I refer them to a definition of the term psychotropic substances' which was given by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech and which reads: 
Psychotropic substances' is a term used to refer to substances that have the capacity to produce a state of dependence and central nervous system stimulation or depression resulting in hallucinations or disturbances in  motor  functions, thinking, behaviour, perception or mood and, in respect of which, there is evidence of a likelihood of abuse so as to constitute a public health and social problem. 
Hallucinogens or psychotropic substances are drugs which interfere with a person 's mind. 
We on this side of the Senate say that in 2 respects the legislation probably does not go far enough. For example, it could be said in a philosophical sense that there are some people's minds which ought to be interfered with. The legislation does not deal with that. Secondly, it may be said that it is discriminatory in that there are all sorts of available substances which do not appear in the Schedules but which clearly fall within the definition of a psychotropic substance in that they do interfere with persons' minds. So there are certain assumptions in the legislation that perhaps require further examination by the Government and the Senate. 
There is one other aspect in respect of which we say that the legislation does not go far enough. That relates to the fact that under the external affairs power the Convention probably could have been extended in this legislation to enable uniformity between the States in the standard of prescription of dangerous drugs that are allowed in each State. We hope that the Government will examine this aspect which is one of some concern, and see whether it cannot, by a more imaginative use of the external affairs power, overcome it. There are in fact many matters in the Convention that need further examination if Australian law is to accord with the spirit of the Convention. 
I would like to make one reference in the debate on this Bill to the work of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I am sure that most honourable senators will have read that report. I think that is vitally relevant as a document relating to this legislation. The serious purpose of this Bill- I mention this because I would hate the Senate ever to vote on anything that all honourable senators did not understand- is to try to stop the transport of drugs of the kinds listed in the Schedule through Australia to other countries. We believe that in that sense it is a step in the right direction. It is necessary, having regard to the sophistication of international drug smuggling. We believe that the Bill could have gone further. But, as far as it goes, it is welcomed by the Opposition. We commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refer to the radio stations licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. What authority or department is responsible for the administration of program standards for these stations? Is there any authority, and if so what authority, monitoring such stations at the present time? 
-I move: 
In proposed new section 163a, sub-section (3), leave out all words after 'Court' second appearing, insert 'under this section or in a proceeding instituted in any other court in which a party is seeking the making of a declaration of a kind mentioned in paragraph ( 1 ) (a) or an order of a kind mentioned in paragraph (1 ) ( b ) '. 
The purpose of this amendment is fairly obvious. I again refer the Senate to the explanatory memorandum that was circulated by the former Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Senator Greenwood.  Paragraph 3 of the second section of that explanatory memorandum, which deals with the expanded powers of the Industrial Court, states: 
The Minister, but not the Trade Practices Commission, may institute a proceeding in the Industrial Court seeking such a declaratory judgment or prerogative writ . . . 
The proposed new section 163 A, sub-clause (3), as it stands, gives the right to intervene only in matters that have been or could have been the subject of an application for clearance under the Act. We see the proposed section as it stands as an improvement, but in our view it does not go far enough. It does not go far enough, for example, in proceedings under the proposed section relating to practices for which clearance is not available, in relation to monopolisation, resale price maintenance and price discrimination. The amendment has the effect of giving the Trade Practices Commission a right to intervene as of course in those matters. We think that right should be vested in the Commission for the simple reason that it has the resources, the expertise and the impartiality to enjoy this right. We feel that the right should reside there and not only with the Minister. That is the purpose of the amendment. 
-Lest the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack)  did not understand the amendment, I point out that it is only a right of intervention which the amendment seeks on behalf of the Commission. The Minister has a right under the proposed new section both to institute proceedings and to intervene. There is a difference, of course, between these 2 rights. I thought the Minister was both charitable and thoughtful in the comments which he made, but I thought, with the utmost respect of course, that he might have misinterpreted the nuance between the 2 rights which were being sought. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What are the last available figures indicating the percentage of Australian content of programs being shown on commercial television in Australia. 
Was the percentage of Australian content of programs in 197S41 percent. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask the question as a contributor to the Hospital Benefits Association Ltd in Victoria over many years. In view of the findings of the Nimmo committee of inquiry into health insurance funds, does the Minister regard the attitude expressed by  Mr Derrick  Shaw, General Manager of the HBA, as reported in today's newspapers, to the effect that rates would be reduced on the basis of using existing contributor reserves, as being a proper attitude for a private health fund to adopt? What are the Minister's anticipations in regard to the level of rates that will be struck by private funds such as the HBA when the reserves belonging to existing contributors are in fact used up? 
-The Opposition will not be opposing the second reading of this Bill. It does, however, intend to move an amendment in the course of the Committee stage of the debate. I should perhaps indicate at the outset that the Opposition will not be opposing the Bill because it regards the Bill in essence as being a tidying-up measure. That can be seen from the explanatory memorandum that was distributed by the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Senator 
Greenwood, with the Bill. Before going to the explanatory memorandum, which sets out some of the main points that the Bill is designed to achieve, I refer briefly to the amendment that the Opposition proposes to move. It is an amendment to proposed section 163a. The amendment is designed to have the effect of permitting the Trade Practices Commission to intervene under that provision as of right. I do not propose to discuss it any further at this stage. I wanted just to indicate the broad nature of the amendment. 
I refer to the then Minister's explanatory memorandum for the purpose of illustrating what are regarded as being the main points of the legislation. The explanatory memorandum states: 
This Bill seeks to amend the Trade Practices Act 1 974- 1 975 in the following significant respects- 
To give the Industrial Court jurisdiction to make declaratory judgments and issue prerogative writs in the nature of prohibition,  certiorari  and  mandamus  in matters arising under the Act ( clause 1 5 ) 
That is the provision in relation to which the amendment will be moved. The explanatory memorandum continues: to make it clear that State and Federal Governments may make submissions to the Trade Practices Commission on matters of public interest involved in particular authorisation applications to delete all provisions of the Act providing an interlock with the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1 972- 1 974 to delete all references in the Act to 'the Superior Court of Australia ' to delete, except in sections 34, 35, 44 and 170 all references in the Act to 'the Attorney-General' and substitute 'the Minister' to amend paragraph 51 (2) (g) of the Act to expand that exception to cover the making, or entering into, of an agreement relating exclusively to exports. 
Insofar as that memorandum purports to describe the significant aspects of the Bill, the Opposition regards most of those matters, as I have said, as tidying-up measures. But I should mention some of the areas of our disagreement with and criticism of the present Government's policy not so much in relation to legislation but in its administration of the trade practices legislation. The fifth point in the explanatory memorandum is perhaps a convenient point at which to start to make that criticism because it is in the fifth point of that memorandum that the then Minister referred to the deleting of the references in the Act to the Attorney-General and the substitution of references to 'the Minister'. At the beginning of his second reading speech the then Minister said: 
This Government believes in effective trade practices legislation. 
We have some doubts about that statement being anything more than a pious utterance of Liberal-Country Party philosophy through the ages. The then Minister went on to say: 
We have stated that time and time again. Free and fair competition is a basic tenet of a free enterprise economy. The complexities of the market place have required successive governments to produce complex legislation to maintain that free and fair competition. However, complex legislation must always be kept under close review to ensure that the legal requirements and procedures always work efficiently and equitably in the public interest. 
As I have said, that is a very pious statement of intention that might have been uttered in a platitudinous vein by any Attorney-General in this country in the last 25 years, but more particularly by Liberal-Country Party Attorneys-General. We have a sneaking suspicion that, as a result of its administration of the trade practices legislation in the 8 months in which it has been in office, the Government is perhaps not as fair dinkum as the then Minister would like to make it sound in the passage of his second reading speech to which I have referred. Perhaps that has arisen because the Government really is not quite sure whether it supports small business or big business and which of those two supports it. That, of course, is a very confusing situation for any political party to be in, indeed, I have some sympathy for the Government. But do not let it be thought that I take that too far. 
We regard it as being an extraordinary situation indeed that the trade practices legislation has been placed under the administration of a Minister who is described as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. As somebody has said, business and consumer affairs sounds to us very much like a department of conflicting interests. I know that the  President  of the Australian Labor Party has often been described as being a person who wears 2 hats and reflects some conflicting interests, but the 2 hats he wears are really little Arab type hats compared with the ones that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs wears in relation to this portfolio. Even in the halcyon Liberal-Country Party days of  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he actually drew his salary as a politician, the first trade practices legislation that he introduced- it was fairly toothless legislation- was introduced under the administration of the Attorney-General and his Department, which is a department that, with all the weaknesses it may have, has a strong tradition for being concerned about the administration of legal rights and for asserting its rights in contradistinction to the interests  of other  departments. We are concerned that the Government has seen fit to take the trade practices legislation out of the area of the Attorney-General's administration and place it under the administration of a Minister for conflicting interests. 
Not only are we concerned about this matter; we believe that the Trade Practices Commission itself is also concerned about it. If one reads the references that are made to consumer protection in the first annual report of the Trade Practices Commission, particularly consumer protection prosecutions, it becomes clear to us that the Commission takes the view that consumer protection prosecutions are not being adequately dealt with. In that report the Commission drew attention to the provisions of section 163 of the Act and suggested that the  Chairman  of the Commission might be authorised as an independent figure to consent to such prosecutions. We believe that if the Minister acted on that suggestion and the right was vested in a responsible independent authority, such as the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission, the Minister himself would be freed of the doubtful responsibility of, as Stephen Leacock would put it, riding a horse which gallops off in all directions. I refer, of course, to the Minister's Department. We should have hoped that the Government would have seen fit to adopt that course. It is not only the concern of the Opposition and the Trade Practices Commission but also, we believe, a profound concern of consumer groups in this community. Their concern, of course, relates to the fair dinkumness, if that is a noun, of the Government's attitude to consumer protection. 
-I am informed by  Senator Wriedt  that it is an adverb. That is the most helpful interjection I have ever had in this chamber; I have actually learned something from it. There is also continuing concern among people who are anxious about consumer protection and trade practices legislation at the carefully calculated rumours emanating from Government sources to the effect that trade practices legislation and the Trade Practices Commission are somehow hampering economic recovery in this country. I suppose that for this Government any excuse is better than none. If it is not some trade unions making excessive wage demands or a variety of other scapegoats who have been referred to in the last few days, why not the Trade Practices Commission as an excuse for the Government's failure to manage the economy and hence the rumours which emanate about the Commission? 
We think that only indicates the Government's ambivalence on this general question of trade practices legislation and also shows the 
Government's concern at the failure of the much-vaunted economic recovery led by consumer spending which was supposed to take place in Austrafia on 14 December 1975, a date which we will all have occasion to remember, I suppose, as we debate economic matters for the next year or so. But whatever happened, economic recovery did not take place. The business confidence about which people are concerned has not re-emerged to the extent that Government spokesmen would like. As I say, the trade practices legislation perhaps is being made a scapegoat for that. Another point I make is that the trade practices legislation is, of course, a creature of capitalism. It depends on the ethos of competition in the public interest. It is ironical that it took a Labor Government to introduce trade practices legislation with any teeth in this country. Now a Liberal Government is making hesitant efforts to abort that legislation and is being a little uncertain about where it is going in that process. 
These are the sorts of factors which confuse the business community and which contribute substantially to the continual undermining of business confidence. I point out that any watering down in relation to trade practice legislation which this Government attempts is the sort of watering down which would not be tolerated in a country like the United States of America where there is less ambivalence about the desirability of legislation of this kind and less ambivalence and confusion about what the Government really intends to do, about what the Government really supports in terms of business interests and what it really supports in terms of consumer interests. 
The other factor which I mention in relation to the Trade Practices Commission is that since May this year or earlier the Government has set about a process of stealth. I believe it is uncontrolled capitalism by stealth, to turn a phrase which we heard a lot last year, by cost cutting the Commission 's budget and making it less effective in the performance of its task. No doubt we will be told later, in a year or so, that the Trade Practices Commission does not work at all and therefore it should be abolished. I mention that only as a gesture of prophecy. I point out that at the moment the Commission's work is being hampered, that it is working much less effectively than it might, because the Government is not making money available for it to work. I mention these matters because I would hate the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack),  or those honourable senators on the other side who have taken the trouble to be here tonight, to think that by not opposing the motion for the second reading of this Bill we accept with a total lack of criticism what the Government has been doing in the area of trade practices legislation. We do not. I have made those points for that reason. I want it on the record that we feel that way about what is happening to this legislation and what might happen in the future. So we record these qualifications which we have about the Government's administration of the legislation. As I indicated earlier, we intend to move an amendment during the Committee stage. 
-The Senate is debating the Budget that was brought down on the Tuesday before last. It is a Budget that has been described by one Liberal Party member of the House of Representatives as ensuring a period of low level depression sustained over several years. 
-I think it was  Mr Wentworth.  I forgot which seat he holds but he has been there for a long time and I take it that his view is still respected in some quarters in the Liberal Party. That comment was made a week or so ago. Perhaps it is sadly prophetic because the Budget strategy that the Government has embarked upon is dependent upon certain assumptions. We as an Opposition hope that those assumptions will prove to be correct, but we have very real doubts about them. We are bound to point out some of those doubts. Not only do we have real doubts about them; responsible economists and business commentators also have very real doubts about some of the assumptions upon which the Budget is predicated. I refer, for example, to an article by the economics editor of the Melbourne  Age  that appeared in today's edition of that newspaper. I wish to quote certain passages from what he had to say. He said: 
Fresh information now casts doubt daily on the foundations the Federal Government used to decide its Budget strategy. 
On Monday, car registration figures showed a sharp downturn- sharper than might have been expected. Yesterday industrial production figures for July showed a slump. A  Business Age  survey showed the retailing industry in the doldrums and the car sales have shown no sign of recovery. 
He went on to refer to the monthly production statistics in these terms: 
The monthly production statistics are notoriously difficult to interpret. But if the decline continues- which would suggest a fundamental break in the recovery which began in the second half of 1975- the Government will have to revise its Budget strategy. 
Certainly one indicator doesn't prove the point. But there has been a rash of them since the details of the Budget were decided many weeks ago. Aside from the points above, there was a sharp reduction in civilian employment in May and a surprising increase in unemployment since. 
In concluding this article the economics editor went on to say: 
It may be that there are fundamental structural changes occurring in Australian demand patterns which would mean that a large area of Australian industry will be left in recession even if, as now appears less likely, economic recovery is sustained. 
If this is the case, Australia faces economic convulsions in the long term. The Government's Budget strategy of stopping growth in its own spending, and at the same time leaving the burden for recovery on a private industry whose structure was instead suited to the early 1970s may make these convulsions worse. 
The same newspaper reports on the situation in the car industry and the retailing industry under the heading 'Retailers see no recovery' and talks of a gloomy outlook for the car industry. It describes those 2 areas as the keystone of the economy. The newspaper said that retailers in the long term are hoping rather than expecting that the Budget will restore consumer confidence. It went on to say: 
But there were no forecasts yesterday on when that renewed confidence would show through in higher sales. 
The same article reports the same sort of pattern in relation to the car industry. At page 4 of the Budget Speech delivered by  Senator Cotton  in the Senate he had this to say: 
More recently, however, private consumption expenditure has begun to grow. 
In the business sector also there are early signs of confidence regenerating. 
I emphasise the words 'early signs'. In a moment I want to contrast that statement with statements that were made 6 months ago by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). Senator Cotton  went on to say: 
Some healthy gains in capital spending on plant and equipment have already occurred. 
The key question hanging over the future course of the recovery is whether the main components of private demand- consumption and business investment- will firmly join stocks and exports in building a continuing recovery. 
If they do not, that recovery will falter and expire. 
From the point of view of the Opposition, if that recovery does falter and expire all we lack as an Opposition is a reprehensible circumstance and the numbers in the Senate in terms of what was done last year and in terms of promises that were made about these matters last year by the present Government. 
Since last year business investment, which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  referred to in the Budget Speech, has received quite a deal of stimulus in terms of things like the investment allowance, the deferred company tax, the partial implementation of the Mathews Committee's recommendations and so on. But in spite of those stimuli there is not much sign of business confidence emerging, nor is there much sign of consumer demand developing. The only prediction that one can spell out of the Budget- a prediction that is really spelt out with a fair degree of confidence by the Treasurer- is that there is certainty of a continuing high level of unemployment. However one reads the Budget Papers, that is quite clear. But on the subject of consumer confidence and the revival of business confidence there is no confident prediction and no clarity in the Budget Papers. 
We find those things not really surprising for 2 reasons. The 2 reasons are simply as follows: As is obvious to all observers, the Budget contains a very strong ideological bent, twist or kink, if you like. Any word of that description would suit the purpose. 

 -As Senator Keeffe prefers the word 'kink' I will use it. The Budget contains a very strong ideological kink. 
-I think most commentators would say that it is unlike our Budget of August 1975, which  Senator Durack  was one of the people who saw fit to delay.  Senator Durack  will not escape that fact in the 3 years of this Parliament. The strong ideological kink to which I have referred is reflected in the obsessive disdain for public expenditure, which I will come back to in a moment, the fixation with the size of the deficit and the overpowering and totally unrequieted love for the private sector of the economy. I say totally unrequited because there is absolutely no sign of that love being returned in favours from the private sector to the Government at this moment. That is the first reason why we say that it is not surprising that there has not been a resumption of business confidence and consumer confidence- that strong ideological kink in the Budget. 
The second point is the Government's apparent confusion over its actual Budget strategy. I remind people like  Senator Durack  of some of that confusion as it has been displayed over the last 6 months or so. Last year at the time of the Hayden Budget, which was predicated on the basis of a steady consumer led recovery in the economy the people of Australia were told by the then leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, that this was a totally false strategy to adopt and that a consumer led recovery was not desirable. We were told that it was desirable that a recovery should occur by an upsurge in business investment rather than an upsurge in consumer confidence. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  in his election policy speech in November 1975- remember, he became Prime Minister on 1 1 November in the caretaker government- assured the people of Australia that a consumer led recovery would be short lived. In March 1976,  Vh  months later, he was urging the people of Australia to go out and spend. He specifically asked them to spend on refrigerators and motor cars. In August 1976 the urging still goes on from the Prime Minister, the Treasurer, and I suppose,  Senator Durack.  In spite of every disincentive in the economic situation of August 1976 and in this Budget to spend, the urging still goes on for people to spend. Of course, the urging still goes on and is resisted by the people of Australia because of the continuing spectre of unemployment which hangs over the economic situation. 
Let us have a look at how different is the reality of being in Government and bringing down this Budget when compared with the promises which were made in November and December 1975. Let us look first of all at the promise given by  Mr Fraser  on 8 December and reported in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  in the following terms: 200 000 cut in jobless, says  Mr Fraser.  Australia's unemployment figures could be slashed by up to 200 000 under a Liberal-National Country Party Government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. He said that at the same time he would try and cut inflation by 1 1 per cent. 
The 2 promises are a 200 000 reduction in unemployment and to cut inflation by 1 1 per cent. On 27 November, during the course of the election campaign,  Mr Fraser  had this to say: 
Inflation and unemployment would drop under a LiberalNational Country Party Government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. The changes in the direction of policies would start to have an economic impact,  Mr Fraser  said. 
-I am not sure what the Prime Minister promised but the way I read it I do not think  Senator Harradine  's interjection is correct. But those promises were made by the then Prime Minister in November and December last year. They were supported by the now  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony.  He said: 'We will put people back into work by encouraging a thriving and productive private sector. This will be the key factor in Australia's economic recovery.' How different were the promises from the reality of August 1976. These were the promises which justified the delaying of the Hayden Budget for a month in 1975. These were the carrots which were held out before the donkeys who vote in elections in Australia and who did so in December 1975, according to the view of the Government. These were the factors which justified the breaches of convention in the Senate and which created a constitutional crisis in this country which undermined the confidence of half the Australian people in parliamentary government. 
-We will come to that in a minute. I have heard a lot of talk today about what we did but I wanted to talk about what the Government has done and what it said it would do. That is the unpalatable thing, is it not? These were the promises of November and December 1975. These were the things which led people like  Senator Durack  to sit here for a month and delay the Hayden Budget. Such people sat here like ciphers and listened to the empty rhetoric of people like  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony  and cried out: 'Sock it to them Mai. We will show what private enterprise can do. We will show what free people can do in Australia. We will get rid of unemployment. We will reduce the inflation rate and all these things will happen.'  Mr Fraser  said: The effects will be felt immediately we come to power. Business confidence will immediately become apparent. People will start to spend again. ' That reminds me of the song about bluebirds over the white cliffs of Dover. Everything will happen when  Mr Fraser  gets into power. These were the promises which justified the action of the Senate in relation to the Labor Party Budget of last year and which enabled Opposition senators, as they then were, to screw their courage to the sticking place and delay the Budget. 
The Budget we are debating now will not be delayed for obvious reasons. It will not be forgotten in the context in which these promises were made, to which I have referred, and because of matters which have happened since. It is no good people like  Senator Martin  coming here tonight and explaining to us how the family allowance will lift the level of spending in the community when there is not one tittle of evidence to support that proposition. In the Senate she gave a little lecture, perhaps intended for a Higher Schools Certificate class, on the plight of small business. She somehow suggested that this Government was concerned about that matter. She should have been here yesterday when the trade practices legislation was being debated and she could have expressed a view about that then. But she was not here. It is no good these sorts of lectures being given to us in the context of the undertakings which the present Government made about the economy. 
I shall refer to one or two specific areas of cuts which perhaps have not been mentioned but which are rather important in the context of this Budget. First of all, I refer to the cuts made in the budget for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In real terms these cuts amount to $4m. I referred earlier to the ideological bent.  Senator Keeffe  corrected me and suggested the ideological link of this Budget in relation to public expenditure in some areas. This is nowhere more manifest than in the cuts made to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This situation results from a long and twisted vendetta by the Government against the Australian Broadcasting Commission for quite obvious and apparent reasons. For example, I have never heard such outraged comments by Liberal Party parliamentarians as I heard last year. Richard Carlton on the program  This Day Tonight  actually asked the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  to spell out the promises he was making and the program he offered as leader of the government of Australia if he were elected. There was uproar about that. These were very vulgar and impossible questions to ask a man like  Mr Fraser.  They were very difficult questions for him to answer and he should not be expected to answer them. Of course, those are the sorts of questions which any responsible interviewer would ask anywhere else in the world of any political leader. These were the sorts of questions which, had they been answered, might have prevented the people of Australia having to face up to the high level of unemployment and the consequences of the mismanagement of this Government which they are now having to face. That is the basis of the vendetta against the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
In real terms the results have been cuts in expenditure on current affairs programs, and on drama programs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Consequently there hs been unemployment of creative artists in Australia of which the ABC is perhaps the principal employer. There have been cuts in education programs which the ABC alone gives to the people of Australia. For example, in the city of Melbourne in the last week primary school television has been cut in the following ways: Programs for 8 to 12 year olds on Monday and Wednesday mornings have been cut. Programs on health for young people on Friday mornings have been cut. Programs on science for children aged 9 to 12 years on Monday mornings have been cut. They may not be terribly important to people who have the advantage of attending wealthy private schools and institutions of that kind but they are important to millions of Australian school children. They are important to the whole spectrum of the development of culture in this country and the development of a diversity of education facilities. 
The second area I want to mention is that of growth centres. I was in the Albury-Wodonga area only a fortnight ago and one finds there a classic example of the relationship which exists between public and private expenditure- a relationship which this Government just does not seem to understand. There were hundreds of investors and developers in Albury and Wodonga who have invested money in aspects of the building industry on the assumption that the development of Albury and Wodonga would proceed at the same rate as that which was provided for by the previous Government. The cuts to a program like that, which amounted to $20m in real terms, are again a betrayal of a long term national Government investment. They are a betrayal of all the rhetoric that is heard on decentralisation and all the lip service that is given to the problems of our cities where 85 per cent of the Australian population lives. We see these cuts as a very real and significant betrayal. But more than that, this Government does not seem to be able to recognise as being important the fact that there is a close relationship between public sector spending and private sector spending, which is illustated by the cuts in growth centre expenditure in an area like Albury-Wodonga. I want to refer in a moment to the construction industry in a particular context. But this, I think, is a graphic example of what we mean. 
The other area to which I wish to refer very briefly is that of primary industry. All I want to say about this is that this Budget offers very little relief or sympathy to farmers. Those programs which will be carried on are a continuation of programs which were introduced by the Labor Government. I think farmers will be quite justifiably disappointed because again this is an example of empty rhetoric and a failure to fulfil the promises which have been made. Of course, the Labor Government was accused of ruining primary industry. Farmers were led to believe that it would start to rain again when Malcolm Fraser was elected Prime Minister on 13 December last year. I have been talking to a few of them recently and they say that they have not noticed any particular change in the rainfall patterns or any particular change in the situation of rural industry as a result of the election of this Government. They will be and, I believe, are very disappointed. I only mention that point because for 3 years we had to put up with bleating accusations from the then Opposition that in some way we were responsible for consumer habits of countries like Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom which adversely affected the rural industry in this country. So I mention also primary industry. 
I refer briefly to the construction industry because again it seems to me to be a classic example of the failure of the Government to appreciate the relationship which exists between public sector and private sector expenditure. I mention the construction industry because it is an area of high unemployment, particularly in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. It is a particularly vulnerable area and is difficult to bring out of a recession. If I might put it in these terms: There is absolutely no sign that any reduction in real activity by the Government in the public sector of the economy will in any way be compensated for by an increase in activity in the private sector of the economy. There is not one sign in the construction industry that the expression 'the private sector taking up the slack' will apply in that industry. Of course, the consequences of that for an industry of this kind are very severe because when there is a recession in an industry like the construction industry- we have a full bottle recession now- the building teams and contracting teams in the large scale construction developments which have broken up are very difficult to replace. Not only is this inefficient in terms of loss of current production but it is grossly inefficient in terms of the period taken to rebuild construction teams and to reestablish companies which have gone out of business in the event of a greater requirement arising in the building sector generally. 
Having mentioned those specific areas I want to go back to an area which I believe is fundamental to this Budget. As I said earlier, it is the only area mentioned in the Budget which emerges quite clearly as an area in which the Government is prepared to specify what the situation will be. I refer to the area of unemployment. As I said before, the specifications there are quite clear.  Mr Lynch  's first budget is an interesting budget and it will be remembered as an unemployment budget because for the first time, in the words of the Budget document, it legitimises continuing unemployment as an acceptable concept. We have now the highest July level of unemployment since the Depression. It is the highest level and is still going strong. 
I want to turn just briefly to what has been done for the unemployed people in our community 3 15 000 odd in July and no doubt a significantly increased number since then. Again I want to refer to it in terms of promises which this Government made and promises which have not been fulfilled. I refer first of all to the National Employment and Training Scheme which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  promised would be retained. The scheme has not been retained in its existing form. It has been severely cut back. I refer secondly to the Regional Employment and Development Scheme, a most crucial scheme to areas which have pockets of unemployment, in particular, rural areas. That scheme has been abolished. On 8 December last year  Mr Street  promised that the RED scheme would be maintained by this Government. That promise has not been kept. 
-I appreciate that in the context of the situation that existed in November and December last year we did propose to abolish the scheme. But  Mr Street  promised that the RED scheme would go on. If the honourable senator who interjected wants me to quote the passage in which he said this I shall do so. But that promise has not been fulfilled. What I am seeking to do is to ensure that the Minister who interjected and other Ministers in this Government do not escape the consequences of the promises which they made. They will not be allowed to do that. The third thing  Mr Street  promised to benefit the unemployed was the structural adjustment schemes. None of these promises have been carried out by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations or by this Government. Not only do we have these high July 1976 unemployment figures- the highest July level since the Depression- but also the things that the Government promised it would do for unemployed people have not been carried out. 
I want to refer again to the consequences of that high level of unemployment, not only throughout the community at large and throughout all age groups, of the work force, but particularly amongst the young people. There is a rate of 15 per cent unemployment amongst teenage girls and 12 per cent amongst teenage boys compared with 5.4 per cent across the work force generally. Unemployment benefits for those teenagers have been reduced by an effective 15 per cent and 51 000 school leavers in July 1976 were receiving unemployment benefits. We can talk about the rugged society as Malcolm Fraser did in the general election campaign. We can look at the Olympic Games result and not see much evidence of the rugged society in Australia any more. But if we look at the unemployment figures for teenage people we begin to see what the term 'rugged society' really means. It is rugged for them. The social consequences for our community as a whole are going to be rugged for all of us because the social problems and the disillusionment associated with teenage unemployment are disastrous in any contemporary society, particularly a society in which 85 per cent of the people live in big urban metropolises. That is the sort of problem which must be pointed up specifically in terms of this Budget and in terms of the promises which were made by this Government before it came to power. 
The only other argument with which I want to deal is this: It has been said throughout this Budget debate that everything is the fault of the Labor Government. 
It has been said that we started inflation and that we started unemployment. If  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack had been in the chamber earlier, he would have heard me refer to the troglodytes who shout slogans like that. I did not have the honourable senator in mind at the time, but I am encouraged by his example. The fact of the matter is that Government senators and their Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in November and December 1975 that they would get rid of unemployment and reduce the inflation rate by 1 1 per cent. They sat here in the Senate and delayed the passage of the Labor Budget for a month. They gave lip service to  Mr Fraser  and grunted and groaned and carried on in support of him during November and December 1975. They sit here still grunting and carrying on. They are not prepared to justify the promises which they made then or supported then and they are not prepared to talk about those promises now. I say to Government senators: You will not be allowed to forget those promises because the justification for everything you did in November and December last year was that you would be better in relation to these 2 matters.  Mr Fraser  specifically said so. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt. 
-The Senate is debating the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1976. The Opposition will not be opposing this Bill for reasons which emerge partly from the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in which he sets out in some detail the main purposes and effects of the legislation. I will refer to those main purposes in summary form. They are: Firstly, to give effect to the Government's decision on banning advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco; secondly, to amend the Act in relation to the licensing of translator stationsthat is, television stations; thirdly, to amend the Act relating to community television aerial systems; and, fourthly, to permit licensing of broadcaster translator stations for radio purposes. 
Since the Bill was first introduced into the House of Representatives there have been further amendments brought down by the Government which were designed, I believe, to clarify certain aspects which were set out in the first amending Bill. For example, there were problems which arose- apparently these were brought to the Government's attention after the first piece of legislation was introduced- relating to translator services being available to metropolitan television and radio stations. As I see the further amendments, they are purely in the interests of clarification of those points. 
Insofar as the provisions of the Bill deal with these matters of translator stations and community television aerials, I state that we see them as measures which are designed to reflect community needs and to increase technological capacity. We welcome those measures. Insofar as community television aerials are concerned, I think the Minister explained in his second reading speech that that amendment is made on the basis of what is referred to as 'community of interest' considerations when recommending grants of licences and, in particular, for aesthetic reasons which would enable the States to have one television licence effectively instead of a mass of them as now is the situation. 
I wish to say a few words regarding the proposals to ban cigarette and tobacco advertising from television. The previous Labor Government introduced a system of phasing out the advertising of cigarette and tobacco products on television. We did this because of the known health hazards associated with tobacco and cigarettes and the incontrovertible evidence relating to those health hazards in relation to lung disease and heart disease. Of course, we did this also because it is the one area in which the Federal Government has constitutional power in relation to the media. That is to say, this Federal Parliament has power over broadcasting and television and power to stop advertising of products of this kind on that form of the media. 
I notice that the Minister has referred to the fact that approaches have now been made to State health Ministers to see whether a consistent approach can be developed in relation to the banning of cigarettes and other products of that kind in other forms of the media. Of course, that requires an exercise of the constitutional power of each State. I mention this because it again draws attention to one of the difficulties which any Federal government faces when embarking on a policy of this kind in a Federation such as Australia. 
The lack of constitutional power over the media in general terms including, for example, newspapers has the consequence that a government is unable to follow a consistent policy. So there seem to be inequities in this Bill in terms of its capacity to stop advertising on radio and television but not to stop it in newspapers or in other forms of the media which are not the responsibility of the Federal Parliament. In a sense, I suppose, it results in unfairness and a degree of sloppiness in the administration of what might be described as a health program or a preventive medicine program in relation to the effects of tobacco and cigarettes. 
The other point which I mention briefly in relation to the ban on cigarettes and tobacco advertising is this: There has been a lot of publicity associated with this move. In fact, I welcome the Government's decision to proceed with the course upon which the Labor Government embarked. I say that there has been a lot of publicity about it because there is much criticism in terms of freedom to advertise. I suppose that, of the thousands of people who have been disappointed with the present Government, nobody has been more disappointed than the cigarette and tobacco advertisers. I congratulate the Government on the decision which it has taken and maintained in relation to this matter. I said last night in the course of the Budget debate that on 13 December last- the election day- many people in the country thought everything would suddenly become right. For example, the people in the rural sector thought it would rain again when  Mr Fraser  was elected as Prime Minister. I am sure that the tobacco interests in this country were confident that the present Government would not proceed with the Labor Government 's decision on this matter. As I say, I congratulate this Government for having done so. 
In the course of mentioning that aspect, I refer to a document which has been put out by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations entitled  Freedom to Advertise.  It is described as a report of findings from a Roy Morgan Research Centre survey of public opinion about advertising freedom. I cite this document to the Senate because it is one of those extraordinary documents which demonstrates what is often said: If you ask a silly question, you are likely to get a silly answer. In this document, a number of loaded questions has been asked and many loaded answers have been provided. Let me refer to some of those questions. Question 1 states: 
Free speech- being able to say what we want, when we want- is an important part of the Australian way of life. How strongly do you agree or disagree? 
Surprise, surprise! About 90 per cent of Australian people say they agree. The conclusion is drawn that freedom of speech is part of the Australian way of life. Question 2 states: 
Advertising is just like free speech. Do you agree or disagree? 
The conclusion drawn, by a majority of three to one, is that Australians equate freedom to advertise with freedom of speech. The third question states: 
Goods openly and legally on sale to the public should be allowed to be advertised. Do you agree or disagree? 
Again, a very large percentage of Australians say yes, leading to the conclusion that goods and services openly and legally available should be freely advertised. The fourth question is: 
Goods on which a Government collects taxes should be allowed to be advertised. Do you agree or disagree? 
The answer to that is that products which yield revenue to the Government should be freely advertised. As I have said, that is a publication of the Federation of Australian Commercial Stations, as part of its campaign to reverse the Government's decision on this question of cigarette and tobacco advertising. I repeat that if you ask silly questions, you get silly answers. Also if you ask loaded questions, you get loaded answers. I ask honourable senators: What if we took the consequences of those answers to their fullest extent? It could emerge clearly as the view of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations- on the basis of this FACTS document- that, for example, if sex shops or vendors of contraceptives upon which, of course, taxes are paid to the Government, want to advertise, the majority of Australians would approve of that action or that the majority of Australians, in fact, would approve of advertising anything, on the basis of those questions which have been asked and the conclusions which have been drawn from the answers. 
The freedom to advertise and the freedom to speak, which I believe crosses party lines, is relative. Only 150 years ago employers were free to employ 12-year old children in coalmines. That was described as a freedom 150 years ago. A few years ago in our own country we had a great and quite extraordinary debate about whether people should be free not to wear seat belts in motor cars. We have had debates over the years also about whether people of certain ages should be free to go into hotels, whether women should be free to go into hotels, and so on. Only some 4 years ago we had a government which decided that 18-year-old young men were not free to determine whether they should go to fight in Vietnam. The freedom to decide that people who could not vote could still be sent to Vietnam was reserved for the government of the day. That, of course, was the subject of a lot of debate in this country. All these sorts of freedoms are relative and must, in a sense, be examined on their merits. 
I am not without sympathy for the people in the tobacco industry who ask: 'Why should we be singled out against the breweries and others who are free to advertise their products which are equally harmful?' I suppose the answer to their question is that they constitute the first cab off the rank in terms of relative freedoms, because the evidence against the product of the tobacco industry in terms of health seems to me to be absolutely compelling. The previous Government saw that this evidence was compelling and that advertising of cigarettes should not be allowed. The present Government is of like persuasion. It is because of that that these amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act have been proposed. On behalf of the Opposition I very much regret that the Government does not have the capacity to influence more widely tobacco and cigarette advertising but, as I said earlier, I congratulate the Government on the steps it has taken within its present constitutional powers. As I have indicated, the Opposition will not oppose the Bill. In fact, we commend it to the Senate. 
I address my question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to the answers he gave earlier today to questions asked by  Senator Walters  and  Senator Wriedt  and remind him that at no time in the period in which he was in opposition did the Liberal Party claim that unemployment was the responsibility of State governments. I further remind him that the strategy of the present Government, as announced since December 1975, is to cure unemployment by stimulating the private sector of the economy, at the same time cutting public expenditure. Is he now saying that the creation of employment is a responsibility of the State public sector and not the Federal public sector? 
-My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to his answer to a question asked by  Senator Walters  yesterday and again during question time today in which he developed the new-found proposition that it is the responsibility of a State government with a Budget surplus to create employment opportunities in an effort to cure the current unemployment situation in Australia. I ask the Minister whether he will develop that proposition in relation to local government. Is it the responsibility of local government bodies with budget surpluses, as it apparently is now of State governments under the new federalism policy, to create on the same basis employment opportunities for people in their areas? 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-The Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack)  has just put down a statement on what he is pleased to call the Government's wages policy. I take it that it is regarded as a very important statement by the Government because it was read yesterday in the House of Representatives when the proceedings of the House of Representatives were being broadcast and it has now been read to the Senate 24 hours later when the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast. It is clearly an important statement to the Government. But it was not very important to Liberal senators because there were only  Vh.  of them in the chamber when the Minister started to read the statement. Be that as it may, let us examine the contents of the statement. The opening paragraph of the statement makes the point in these words: 
. that orderly methods of wage fixation are under attack by certain elements within the trade union movement. 
In fact, the statement is nothing more than a rather cynical rationalisation of the failure of the Government's economic policies, an attempt to excuse broken election promises and, ultimately, an exercise in self-delusion about an industrial relations policy. It is not in any sense a wages policy at all but rather a policy to reduce real levels of wages in Australia. That, in our view, spells trouble. We would have hoped that the Minister might have described the statement in those terms instead of the terms in which it is described. 
Insofar as the Government's statement seeks to blame elements of the trade union movement for the economic failures of the Government it is as I said an absurd exercise in industrial relations. The essential industrial relations question is this: How can any responsible trade union official in Australia be asked to tell the members of his union to accept a real reduction in their level of wages? It is an industrial relations question. This Government, one suspects, is not particularly good at understanding those questions, but, of course, it is crucial to any statement on wages policy. How can a trade union official be asked to tell his members that they should take a real reduction in the value of their wages? 

 -If Senator Missen will listen to me for a minute or two he will understand a little more about it. 
Our Government had a policy of reaching consensus with the trade unions about wage indexation. I will be telling you,  Senator Durack,  in a minute how your Government has broken that fragile consensus, if you will bear with me. More particularly, how can a trade union official say that to his members in the context of the Government's promises made at the time of the last election or in the context of a government which, in Opposition in  1973,  opposed a referendum to give power over prices and incomes to the Australian Parliament? There can be no such thing in our view as a viable wages policy in a capitalist society- in a mixed economy- without a degree of consensus. It is that important element of consensus which this statement completely ignores. 
At page  10  of the Minister's statement appears the extraordinary expression about profits and wages 'returning to more normal relationships'. I would love to hear from an honourable senator  opposite what a  normal relationship is in relation to wages and profits. I would like to know what is normal in a competitive society. That, of course, is the real question. Will  Senator Durack,  in some subsequent statement, tell us what is a normal level of profits, what are normal salaries for doctors in Australian society, what are normal salaries for lawyers and what are normal salaries for members of Parliament? He is prepared to tell us here what is a normal level for wage earners. That, of course, is what the problem is all about. The statement completely fails to deal with it. 
The whole problem, of course, is the Government's chronic inability to accept responsibility for governing. Last year when we were in government and honourable senators opposite were in Opposition, unemployment was said to be our Government's fault, inflation was said to be our  Government's fault, and  industrial unrest was said to be our Government's fault. This all comes back, of course, to the legitimacy of what happened in November and December of last year. Once again, it was implicit in what was done that honourable senators opposite would solve these problems because they would become members of the government and would accept responsibility for them. That was implicit in everything that happened then. We are told now, of course, that the problem is that orderly methods of wage fixation- for which honourable senators opposite assumed responsibility when they came to government- are under attack by certain elements within the trade union movement. 
In assuming responsibility for government the Liberal and National Country Parties assumed responsibility for Australian society in which the trade unions, the corporations, profits and wages are integral parts of the system. The present Government assumed responsibility for that. It failed, as a government, to discharge that responsibility. In fact, in  1975  there was, in the context of Australian industrial relations history, a relatively stable order and system of wage fixation. It was based on one simple fact: The retention of the value of real wages for workers. It was accepted by the trade union movement because it was based on that fact. In  1975  it produced a reduction in the rate of increase in wages from  27  per cent for the year ending March  1975  and  13  per cent for the year ending March  1976-  a reduction from  27  percent to  13  per cent in the real level of the rate of increase in wages. At the same time, from March  1975  to March  1976  it produced a reduction in the level of inflation from  18  percent to  12  per cent. More importantly, at the same time it maintained the real value of wages and it maintained a social contract- admittedly a fragile social contractwith the unions and a consensus on the question of wage fixation. That social contract has been broken in a very marked way by this Government with no consequent marked increase in economic activity, no increase in consumer demand and an increase in real unemployment. 
Let us look at what the Government has done. When the present Government was seeking power in November and December of last year, it promised that it would slash unemployment if it were elected. We know what happened to that promise. It promised that it would decrease inflation rapidly and we know what has happened to that promise. But more importantly in the context of a wages statement, it promised that it would support wage indexation.  Mr Fraser,  in his election speech in November  1 975  said: 
Our reforms will maintain the purchasing power of wages and ease the pressure for excessive wage demands. 
That is what he was saying in November  1975.  Honourable senators opposite are in government because their Leader was saying things like that. Later, in the course of the election campaign, he said: 
The Government will support wage indexation. 
That is what  Mr Fraser  said in November 1975. That is what he was saying right throughout the election campaign. It was on the basis of promises like that that honourable senators opposite are now in government. In September 1976 the Minister makes this extraordinary statement called 'Wages Policy' which is not a policy at all. It is an attempt to justify what has happened since those promises were made and an attempt to justify what has not happened since those promises were made. I ask honourable senators to examine the Government's promise to maintain wage indexation. Look at the way the Government has dealt with that promise. In December 1975 the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission granted full wage indexation and the Government supported it. In February 1976 the Government's submission sought 50 per cent of full indexation- that is, 50 per cent of the 6.4 per cent increase in the consumer price index. That was the first little variation from the promise of 2 months earlier. In May, the Government's submission sought plateau indexation at the level of average weekly earnings. 
That was the second step in the breaking of the promise made by this Government in November and December 1975. In August, the Government again changed its submission to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It sought plateau indexation at the level of minimum wages. That was only a month ago. People now, in the context of this statement and in the context of the record of broken promises of this Government, will be beginning to ask: 'What comes next when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has to deal with this matter again in December?' Well they might ask. These steps have been taken by the Government which is now pleased to announce a wages policy 9 months after its election in the context of a severe recession which is continuing; in the context of company profits which are well above the inflationary rate in respect of 83 per cent of companies which have published figures to date; in an economy which is described by  Senator Durack  in the statement as precarious- and one might well ask whose responsibility is that in the context of the promises which have been made; and in the context of a declining level of unemployment. That is the industrial reality; that is the situation with which the Government is now confronted. 
It is in that situation that the Government seeks to make the unions the scapegoat for its failure to manage the economy, the scapegoat for its failure to keep its promises given in elections, the scapegoat for its continuing opposition to granting the Federal Parliament power over incomes and wages, and the scapegoat for its failure to deal with the incomes of people whose salaries and wages are not determined by boards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. So the unions are now to be made the scapegoat for that just as in June, the Prime Minister experiencing some feeling that perhaps his economic policies were not working, for which there was then abundant evidence, sought to make the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a scapegoat and responsible for the level of inflation which we now have; and just as in the Senate in the last 2 days the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  in answer to questions, has sought to make State governments for the first time in Australian history responsible for the level of unemployment. 
This is a responsibility which the Government accepted in November and December last year and said that it would deal with by slashing 200 000 off the unemployment figures. No doubt 200 000 or a few hundred thousand could be slashed off the unemployment figures by jiggering around with the figures, but that is not a very real and responsible exercise in terms of government. A few could be slashed off by messing about with the unemployment benefits but again that is not a real exercise in terms of the sort of responsible government we were promised. 
It is the context of those assumptions of responsibility that this Government took upon itself that, as I said, it now introduces a so-called wages policy which is nothing more than an attempt to rationalise failures- failures in relation to the economy, failures in relation to industrial relations and so on. One suspects from time to time that the Government understands the failures in relation to the economy, even though it lacks the capacity to do anything about them. Reading this statement one cannot get the slightest suspicion that it understands the failures in relation to its industrial relations policies. 
Another important aspect of the statement and another indication of self-delusion within the statement is the comparison that has been drawn with what has happened overseas. First of all  Senator Durack  very glibly made a comparison with New Zealand. There is no constitutional problem about the fixation of a wages policy or about profits in New Zealand. Those matters can be dealt with by a government. But the Government parties have assiduously over the years sought to evade those responsibilities in relation to the Constitution of this country. 
The second comparison was made with the United States of America. It was said that inflation is on the down-turn in the United States and that that was due to wages policy. What a pity journals such as the  Economic Review  do not agree with the Government on those sorts of things. The recession in the United States and the upturn in economic activity is attributed by almost every international economic commentator to one thing- a growth in consumer demand which was stimulated in the United States by slashing indirect taxes. That is something which we have advocated since the end of last year and consistently in the Budget debate as something which should happen here. Every device has been sought to try to stimulate consumer demand, even personal encouragement from the Prime Minister for people to go and buy refrigerators, whether they needed them or not. This sort of advice has been tendered but nothing has happened in relation to consumer demand in Australia. It has happened in the United States and that is responsible for their climbing out of their economic problems. But nothing like that has been done in Australia. 
The third country with which comparison was made is the United Kingdom where a consensus has been reached on the anticipated increase in the rate of wages for the next 12 months. I would have thought that that was a very dangerous example for this Government to give. After all, I would have thought that it might have remembered the experience of  Mr Heath  when he did exactly what this Government is doing in relation to the wages policy which was announced today.  Mr Heath  tried to blame everything on the trade unions and to avoid responsibility for government. He sought to make scapegoats of the trade unions for everything that was going on in the industrial relations field in Britain. He was thrown out of office as a result. 
The point about the situation in the United Kingdom now is that a consensus on wages policy has been reached between the British Labor Government and the trade unions. That is why they have agreement on wages policy, that is why they have agreement on the question of the increase in the level of wages in the next 12 months and that is why there has been a contribution from the industrial relations arena in Great Britain to the general economic improvement which is taking place, admittedly at a very slow rate. That is the key element in what has happened in Britain and that is the key element which is missing from this wages policy which has been put down by the Government in the Senate today. The British Government recognises that there must be a consensus reached with the unions. In Australia the consensus which existed has been broken by the failure of this Government to fulfil its promises, broken by the submissions which have been made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by this Government and, more importantly, broken by an attack on the real level of wages of the Australian worker. That is something which, in an industrial relations context, the Government cannot  ask  trade  unions to  accept. It cannot ask them to accept it in a society where there is no similar restraint on the incomes of doctors, lawyers, politicians, company profits or anything of that kind. One section of society which the Government lays claim to be governing cannot be asked to accept a burden which it is not prepared to impose on others. So long as that situation exists the sort of statement that has been put down by the Minister and that has been called euphemistically a 'wages policy' will be nothing more than an attempt to gloss over the failures of the Government in the fields both of economic management and industrial relations.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no dissent, leave is granted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It relates to the speech he gave at the dinner held by the Australian Retailers Association and follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Wriedt.  I ask the Minister: Did he say that in order to encourage consumer spending the retail industry had a very important part to play and that the age of the super salesman was upon us as a desirable thing in encouraging consumer spending? I ask the Minister: Is the age of the super salesman upon us and is the retail industry to be relied upon for that role? Have the super salesmen of the Government failed in encouraging consumers to spend? Is the onus now being shifted to private industry? 
-I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Government to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of Australia's National Broadcasting Service. 
The words of that motion are carefully chosen because there is a lot of public concern that the qualities which are attributed to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the words of that motion are now under threat. In the Australian Broadcasting Commission's brief history since 1 932 it has built up a high reputation for providing a comprehensive range of services to the Australian people- services in education, the arts, music, drama, current affairs and news. Public opinion polls show that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has an extraordinarily high approval rating- more than 70 per cent. People are confident or have been confident in the past, in its independence, its integrity and its repute. Although the ABC can perhaps be criticised for its essential conservatism since 1932, Australians are justifiably proud of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, just as in Great Britain the British people are justifiably proud of the British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Since its inception as a national broadcasting service it has gone along pretty quietly providing a vast range of services, subject from time to time to criticism, attack and comment by the Press and elsewhere. That is as it should be. But in this motion we want to deal with some of the questions which have arisen in recent months. Since this Government came to power the sort of situation which I just described has changed and this has become a matter of public concern. First of all there were the cuts announced in the ABC budget in May this year. Those cuts led to programs being taken off the air or the production of programs being discontinued- programs like  Bellbird, Rush  and other programs of a current affairs nature- which have resulted in cut backs of the staff of the ABC. In the Budget recently announced $4m was cut off the ABC budget for the next financial year, which led the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland, in his only public defence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission since he got that job, to say that the cuts left the ABC pretty close to the bone. 
Following those cuts we had the extraordinarily spectacle last week on 9 September of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr 
Eric Robinson) appearing on a television program and giving a little homily on the need for objectivity in the Australian Broadcasting Commission, whatever the Minister might think that expression means in any news service, whether it be national or commercial and in whatever country. 
Quite apart from budget cuts and quite apart from the comments of the Minister and of some of his colleagues, let honourable senators look at the situation of the ABC as it is today. I took a rough count last week: There have been 25 cartoons in national newspapers which have taken as the subject of their ridicule the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its  Chairman.  There have also been numerous editorials about the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the last fortnight. The  Chairman  has become a figure of public fun. The Commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are disagreeing in public about what the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be doing and what its program policy should be. Staff morale and public confidence in the Commission are perhaps at an all time low and they have been undermined by the Chairman's confusion and misapprehension about his role as  chairman  of a national broadcasting commission. 
Let honourable senators look at the newspaper headlines of the last few weeks: Think again  Sir Henry',  'Alvin  Sir Henry's  Comedy of Errors', 'Purple Sparks ABC Blue'. One could go on and on with headlines from newspapers over the last few weeks about the Australian Broadcasting Commission- the same Australian Broadcasting Commission which, as I said earlier, since 1 932 has enjoyed a reputation for integrity, impartiality and high repute in the Australian community. 
I want to refer to some of the grave errors which the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has made since his appointmenterrors of judgment and confusion- which have led to such damage to the integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But before doing that I want to fix quite squarely where the responsibility for the appointment of the present  Chairman  lies. It is well known that  Sir Henry  Bland has worked very closely with the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  over many years. It is well known that for 4 months at the end of last year and the beginning of this year he was on the personal payroll of the Prime Minister as an adviser. It is well known that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the Minister responsible for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, privately disowns the appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland as  Chairman  of the ABC saying: 'It was all fixed up before I became a Minister'. If one wants any confirmation of that, let us look at what  Sir Henry  Bland says. The  National Times  of 23 August 1976 reported him as saying: 
Everybody knows the Prime Minister was my minister in Defence. I have a great respect and affection for him and he seems to like me. He asked me to do this job several months ago and I said I  didn't  see myself cut out for this sort of job. 
But he is a very persistent man. He just kept on to me and I finally took it on because it was a challenge. 

 Sir Henry Bland said in August that he did not see himself as being cut out for this job but the Prime Minister was a very persistent man and insisted on his taking it. Let me make it quite clear that when I criticise the  Chairman  of the ABC I do so in this context: I share his view expressed to the Prime Minister earlier this year that he was not cut out for the job. 
-The honourable senator may call it that if he wishes but I will continue in that vein because I am concerned about the subject matter of this motion. In the circumstances I have just outlined,  Sir Henry  Bland 's appointment might, if a Labor government had been in office, be said to come within the category of jobs for the boys '. The tragic fact of the matter is that  Sir Henry  Bland is no boy, although, in the context in which some of my colleagues in the Government use the expression, he might be described as an 'old boy'. That perhaps explains something of the nature of the appointment. 
In  Sir Henry  Bland 's own words he was not cut out for the job. The purpose of my comments in this debate is to show that the ABC has suffered because the Prime Minister was not prepared to take  Sir Henry  Bland's advice earlier this year. It is said by people such as the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that it was a prestigious appointment.  Senator Carrick  said that  Sir Henry  Bland is one of the most distinguished Australians of our generation. I do not know to which generation  Senator Carrick  is referring. That might be an important question when considering  Sir Henry  Bland's present role as  Chairman  of the ABC. I do not want to debate  Sir Henry  Bland 's past career as a public servant. Voltaire once said that history was fables which had been agreed upon. I know the history of  Sir Henry  Bland and I do not want to debate it. Whether it is fable is another question. 
I contrast the appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland with previous appointments made by Labor and 
Liberal governments alike. I mention the following previous appointments as Chairmen of the ABC:  Sir Richard  Boyer,  Sir Robert  Madgwick,  Dr Darling,  Professor Downing and  Dr Earle  Hackett. Every one of those men was an eminent Australian in his own right, independent of government and public service. Every one of them had a cultural eminence of which every Australian could have been proud.  Sir Robert  Menzies, who appointed three of those men, understood the role of  Chairman  of the ABC and made appointments in that light. Every one of those men was capable of making statements consistent with the sorts of statements which have been made over the years by the great chairmen of the British Broadcasting Corporation like Lord Reith and  Sir Hugh  Green. As an example of the sort of thing we should look for in a national broadcasting service I cite the views of  Sir Richard  Boyer, the first  Chairman  of the ABC, regarding the role of a national broadcasting service. 
His view was that there should be:   . . a position of special independence of judgment and action for the national broadcasting instrumentality . . . The ABC cannot be measured by the constitution of other semi-governmental boards or agencies which do not impinge on the tender and dangerous realm of moral, religious, aesthetic and political values. 

 His hope was that the ABC should always 'err on the side of liberality'.  Sir Richard  Boyer was appointed by a Liberal government, confirmed in his appointment by a Labor government and was, by all standards, a distinguished and great Australian. He laid down the pattern which concerned people in this country hoped the ABC would continue to follow. 
Following the appointment of the present  Chairman  on 4 July, the first announcement from which we could glean something of his attitude to the standards that  Sir Richard  Boyer laid down was made shortly after in the same month. It was referred to in an editorial in the Melbourne  Herald  in these terms: 
Think again,  Sir Henry  . . . 

 Sir Henry Bland, recently appointed ABC  chairman,  looks to have stumbled already into a vague twilight land where no experienced news executive would tread. Clearly, he cannot have thought ahead about the full results of a memo that is too sweeping in effect, provoking fears and questions. 
The editorial then deals with news of demonstrations being broadcast on the ABC station  2JJ  and states: 
Surely if  2 JJ  has been transgressing the normal bounds of legitimate news interest, then rectification is the job of an ABC executive, and not of  Sir Henry  Bland. In such areas of judgment, blanket bans are more likely to provide further troubles than worthwhile solutions. 
Projected, such administrative bans will be represented as censorship. The kindest thing to say of this  action  is that it displays an unfortunate detachment from a need for news freedom.  Sir Henry  will be a wise ex-bureaucrat if he explains at tomorrow's meeting of ABC commissioners that the direction should be withdrawn or substantially modified. 
The next incident which concerned the same fundamental principles arose in the context of the peculiar saga of the program  Alvin Purple.  The great cultural debate for this Government in 1976 is about  Alvin Purple,  or  'Purple Alvin',  the 1976 version of debates in 1973 about  Blue Poles.  Whether it be  Blue Poles  or '  Purple A Alvin ',  that is the cultural level to which in 1976 public debate about such issues has declined. 
Before referring specifically to the matter of  Alvin Purple,  I will refer to the sorts of comments which were made by the  Chairman  of the ABC about such matters in his Press conference on 16 August. He said: 
. the commission has no politics, no editorial policy and its commissioners are not involved in program censorship. 
With respect to the controversy over  Alvin Purple,  Sir Henry  Bland said that the controversy: 
. should ensure that the program had an all-time viewing high. 'We should be pleased about all the publicity', he said. 
Subsequently the program was banned at the instigation of the  Chairman  himself, following a private viewing. First it was subject to cuts and finally it was banned. In the same Press conference on 16 August he said that the role of the Commissioners was to support management and occasionally offer some wise guidance. I invite honourable senators to compare that with the memo issued to the staff of the ABC yesterday by  Sir Henry  Bland. After saying that the ABC Staff Association's Federal Council would be allowed to meet with the Commission only in certain circumstances, he sets out what the circumstances are and concludes with these words:   . . only if Council unreservedly acknowledges that the Commission has the unqualified right to, and responsibility to, determine the character and content of all ABC programs and therefore when in individual cases it appears to them desirable to do so to exercise their own judgment as to what should or should not go to air. 
That statement is in contradistinction to his views about the role of ABC management as expressed on 16 August. The role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is, and has always been traditionally accepted as being, to lay down guidelines for the programs of the ABC. The guidelines are contained in the Broadcasting and Television Act, vague though they may be. Those guidelines are 'to provide adequate and comprehensive programs. ' That is the charter of the commissioners of the ABC. The role of management and of professional broadcasters is to prepare and present programs within these guidelines as laid down by the Commission and, indeed, as they were already laid down by the Commission in the case of the present controversy. In contradistinction to those guidelines to which I have referred the  Chairman  has made public statements about the program  Alvin Purple,  first of all saying that it was in bad taste, a comment with which I personally agree and in which he was supported with great gusto by those moral vigilantes from the Festival of Light and others, on his own admission. 
The important point and the important failing in this public comment about a program of the ABC is that the Commission is required to present adequate and comprehensive programs for viewers and not for voyeurs, and there is a very important distinction. If the programming taste of the ABC is to be dictated to by a small fringe group of voyeurs who take it upon themselves to try to influence the programming policy of a national broadcasting body it is contrary to the charter laid down in the Broadcasting and Television Act and contrary to the traditions of the ABC. 
The next criterion which the  Chairman  offered for criticising the program  Alvin Purple  was given in a news conference on Monday of last week. It was not that it was in bad taste but that it was boring, a comment with which I again agree. But if that is to be the new criterion laid down by the  Chairman  of the Commissioners of the ABC for Australian television then we go back 21 years to the time before television came to this country. There would be very little television in Australia if that was the criterion and it was properly policed. Every honourable senator here knows that and knows it to be true. 
I have deliberately drawn attention to the role which the  Chairman  of the Commission has taken upon himself in relation to programming on the ABC because clearly he is in breach of his own charter. Under the Broadcasting and Television Act the  Chairman  is a commissioner and the commissioners are instructed as to what they can do in laying down policy guidelines. If there is any doubt about that perhaps it is worthwhile to examine section 77 of the Broadcasting and Television Act because there the only power to direct that programs be taken off the Australian Broadcasting Commission airwaves is given to the Minister. It will be interesting to see how concerned the Minister is to go in to bat on this issue. Section 77 says: 
. the Minister may, from time to time, by telegram or in writing, prohibit the Commission from broadcasting or televising any matter, or matter of any class or character, specified in the notice, or may require the Commission to refrain from broadcasting or televising any such matter. 
The Minister may do that but not the  Chairman.  I am not inviting the Minister to do that, for reasons which I will point out in a moment, but I am concerned to make the point that confusion has arisen and that the repute of the ABC has been damaged by a complete misapprehension on the part of the  Chairman  as to his own function. The results have been confusion, uncertainty, poor morale and public disputation about a meeting of the Commission to take place on Thursday and Friday of this week. A further result has been that the South Australian Advisory Committee of the ABC has publicly condemned the  Chairman.  The business of what was previously a respectable institution, in terms of the way in which it conducted its affairs, has been publicly exposed and publicly debated. 
Not only that but we have commercial television channels in Australia at this time vying to buy the film rights of  Alvin Purple.  The publicity for  Alvin Purple,  to which  Sir Henry  Bland referred earlier, has been counterproductive in terms of his own intentions. On the basis of the sort of publicity which this course of conduct has brought about the commercial channels are seeking the film rights and are investigating the possibility of obtaining the television rights to the  Alvin Purple  sequence. What this does is to revive the old censorship debates of the 1950s. It is dividing the viewing community in this country on a completely trivial issue. The debate on the national broadcasting system of this country is reverting from the needs of 1 976 to those of 1 948 when these sorts of issues were continually debated in a very parochial society. That is the problem with which we are confronted in this motion and in the current situation of the ABC. 
The issue of principle was put very well in the House of Representatives on 8 September by the honourable member for Hotham,  Mr Chipp,  when he asked this question: 
Will the Minister convey to  Sir Henry  Bland the deep concern of myself, other members of Parliament - 
We hope he includes members of the Senate-  and many people in the community that a self-appointed arbiter of viewing tastes has acted in this way- not necessarily in relation to the program under discussion, but on a matter of principle that similar unilateral action might be taken in the future on more important matters, such as questions of political and social significance? Will he convey to the  Chairman  that censorship of the programs of the ABC should be exercised only after full discussion with all members of the Commission and then only for overwhelming reasons and in rare circumstances? 
That is the view of a former Minister in a Liberal Government, and it was put very specifically in a question not relating to the trivial issue of  Alvin Purple  but relating to the fundamental principles involved in relation to a national broadcasting service. The same sort of principles were again well put today by  Mr Charles  Stokes, a senior lecturer in journalism at the University of Queensland. He said this: 

 Sir Henry Bland seems to have completely misinterpreted the role of the  chairman  of the ABC. He should be fighting for independence for the professional broadcasters and program planners, not trying to stifle it. It is certainly not his job to meddle in the minutiae of daily broadcasting or to act as Grand High Censor of all the national broadcasting output. As  Sir Hugh  Greene, a former BBC director-general said, a broadcasting organisation must recognise an obligation towards tolerance and towards the maximum liberty of expression.  Sir Henry  Bland and the other ABC commissioners should be defending those ideals, not imposing censorship and, worse still, a climate of timid self-censorship on the creative artists and writers who must, as  Sir Hugh  Greene put it, take risks and undertake those adventures of the spirit which must be at the heart of every creative work'. 

 Mr Stokes went on to say: 
I believe, with  Sir Hugh  Greene, that a public broadcasting organisation has a duty to take account of changes in society, to be ahead of public opinion rather than always waiting upon it. I believe the ABC should be adventurous and courageous, and that it should give its producers a high degree of self-responsibility. 
-I am glad  Senator Martin  says 'hear, hear' so timidly. 
I apologise. I have difficulty in distinguishing the dulcet tones of  Senator Martin  and  Senator Walters.  I am grateful for the enthusiastic support which  Senator Walters  gives to propositions which  Sir Hugh  Greene and former chairmen of the ABC have always put in relation to the independence and integrity of a national broadcasting service. I look forward to hearing from her on this subject at a later date. Those sorts of comments by  Mr Chipp  on one hand, who perhaps is not the most distinguished authority on the subject matter, and  Sir Hugh  Greene on the other hand - 
I was comparing the 2 authorities. If the honourable senator waits sometimes he will understand the point better. These sorts of comments lead one to ask whether  Sir Henry  Bland was right earlier this year when he said: 'I am not cut out for the job'. This question could also be asked: 'What is the job, and should not this Parliament be concerned to uphold the principles which previous chairmen of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and of the British Broadcasting Corporation have upheld in the sons of comments from which I quoted?' There is another question: 'What is the job? What should it be?' 
The further question which one is prompted to ask is: 'What are the much vaunted administrative skills which the  Chairman  allegedly has, and how are they showing up in his administration of the ABC?' One would have thought that administrative skills would have produced good staff morale, good relationships with management and staff, a smooth operation, the ABC not being the subject of cartoons, ridicule and contempt by public commentators. One would have thought that administrative skills would have produced those results, not the sort of results which we have seen in Australian papers during the last few days. None of the things that have happened to the ABC since this Government came to power could have happened under any previous  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission or any  chairman  of the British Broadcasting Corporation, and they have not happened in relation to either of those national broadcasting bodies. 
People who are concerned about our national broadcasting service are hoping that tomorrow the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be giving its attention to the problems of ethnic radio, for which the ABC is now responsible, the Commission's intentions about it as from 1 October, the extension of FM services to a greater listening public throughout Australia, the extension of services to country people and perhaps to disputes in the ABC, according to Press comment, between news and current affairs departments. These sorts of things are of concern to intelligent viewers of and listeners to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and they should be the prime subject of discussion at the Australian Broadcasting Commission meeting this week, not the sort of farce with which the Commission will be concerned, and that is the debate which has been engendered in relation to the  Alvin Purple  series. It is for these sorts of reasons that public concern about the integrity, high repute and independence of the national broadcasting service in Australia has been so great and has been the subject of so much discussion in the Press and elsewhere during the last few weeks. It is for these reasons that the Opposition has moved the motion of concern for the independence, integrity and high repute of 
Australia's national broadcasting service. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the Statement. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to the joint statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on 9 September dealing with ethnic radio. In that statement the Ministers say that the Australian Broadcasting Commission would be asked to assume responsibility for ethnic radio. I ask the Minister: Firstly, has there been an answer to that request that the ABC assume that responsibility? Secondly, what additional arrangements have been made for further funding for the ABC to provide for the additional work of catering for ethnic radio? Thirdly, in view of the fact that the licences of stations 2EA and 3EA expire on 1 October and that there is considerable concern about the future of those stations, what has the Government determined about their immediate future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the annual cost of running the television transmitter at Mt Dowe near Tamworth, New South Wales. 
Is the transmitter operated by staff of the Telecommunications Commission. 
Is the transmitter jointly used by Channel NEN9 and Channel ABVN7. 
What annual financial contribution is made by Channel NEN9 towards the cost of the use of this transmitter. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether the Government has received advice from the Attorney-General's Department regarding the proposed legislation of the Victorian Parliament outlawing price cutting for packaged beer. I further ask the Minister whether such advice was received before the Prime Minister made a statement- I think it was described as a philosophical statement- regarding this matter on Sunday. 
-I am sorry;  Senator Missen  corrects me. It was a religious statement. I did not know that he was so keen about the Prime Minister. The third pan of the question is this: Does the Minister regard it, as  Senator Carrick  has indicated in answer to other questions, as the responsibility of State governments to provide employment and encourage consumer spending? 
I  address my question to  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science.  I  refer him to the fact that rainfall of 28 millimetres was measured in Melbourne yesterday.  I  wonder whether the Minister can tell us in simple terms how many millimetres there are in an inch. 
I direct my question to  Senator Durack  who represents the AttorneyGeneral in this chamber. I refer to the question I asked yesterday as to whether the Government had received advice from the AttorneyGeneral's Department about legislation of the Victorian Parliament which proposes to outlaw the sale of cut price packaged beer. Yesterday the honourable senator said that the answer to that question should await a decision of the Victorian Liberal Party. That decision having been reached I now ask the Minister whether the Government has received advice from the Attorney-General's Department and whether it received such advice prior to the Prime Minister's statement on Sunday that such legislation of the Victorian Parliament was in breach of the Trade Practices Act. 
-As I indicated in the second reading debate, the Opposition opposes this clause. It does so because it empowers the making of regulations which would impose a fee of $60. We do not believe in fees being charged in the Family Court. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
-The Opposition opposes parts of this legislation. The main and most objectionable feature, from the point of view of the Opposition, is that clause which deals with the imposition of court fees in matrimonial matters. The Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech indicated that the suggested fee was $60 and that the regulations would be amended- the power to amend the regulations is in the Bill- to provide the power to impose such a fee. We oppose this proposal because it is the thin end of the wedge. We felt that it was the consensus amount the majority of the members of the Senate when the family law legislation was passed that fees should not be imposed; that the whole question of costs should be put on the basis that each party should bear his or her own costs; and that it was desirable to remove as much as possible from the family law legislation any friction which might arise at the time of the dissolution of a marriage from the imposition of fees or the payment of costs or arguments about those matters between the parties. 
-The honourable senator probably finds a lot of things difficult to believe. The purpose of the fee, as described in the Minister's second reading speech is to provide funds for legal aid. I make the point in passing that we think that this is a wrong way to raise revenue for legal aid purposes. What the Minister has indicated in his second reading speech is that it is proposed, in a sense, to apply the revenue recouped from the fees imposed for divorces to the expense of providing legal aid. One might say that if the rate of divorce goes down it is possible that the fee will go up so that the same amount can be recouped and applied to the payment of a proportion of the Commonwealth's legal aid bill. If the rate of divorce goes up, one might ask, will the fees go down? 
We think that what is proposed in the legislation is a bad principle. It carries with it all sorts of elements which we consider undesirable. I do not need to go into them; I only ask those 2 rhetorical questions. The reason for the Minister imposing the fees is given quite baldly as that there have always been fees for divorce and so it is nothing new. We do not find that, in the context of the family law legislation, a very persuasive reason. In the context of any change in legislation, the fact that a thing has always been done does not necessarily make it right for it to continue to be done. 
The other provisions of the Bill facilitate the enforcement of court orders. That has been a very real problem in the family law jurisdiction in a number of States. We do not oppose those provisions. In fact, we applaud them. There is also a provision giving the Commonwealth power to delegate the right of intervention of the Attorney-General to the Attorney-General of a particular State where there is a State family court established. I do not want to go over this ground again. We have always taken the view that the least messy way to handle family law legislation is for the Commonwealth to ask the States to refer powers in matters associated with divorce such as the custody, maintenance and ancillary matters of those kinds to the Commonwealth. In that way there would be a uniform divorce law throughout the Commonwealth. There would not be problems that conceivably could arise by the creation of State family courts, different decisions about the meaning of the Act and even the principles of the Act given in various State courts and consequent confusion. So we just make those comments about the Bill. We oppose the provision relating to the imposition of fees. Otherwise we are content with the comments I have made. 
-We oppose the clause also because of the reason which has been given for the imposition of the fee, that is, that it will produce revenue amounting to $2.8m to help the Government to finance legal aid. To obtain the $2.8m, 48 000 divorce petitions will be needed in a year. It should be the object of the Government, indeed of all of us, to reduce the number of those petitions. If that is done, the revenue which will be gleaned from this operation will be reduced. The Opposition rejects the tying of the fee concept in the Family Court to the financing of legal aid for the reasons given by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech. We oppose this clause. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The circumstances in which the Bill was introduced were set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Commercial television stations at the moment are having a very successful time financially. Their program standards have not improved but that really has nothing to do with government revenue which is obtained from licence fees. The Opposition has nothing further to add. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the answer given yesterday by  Senator Withers  to  Senator Missen  when he said, referring to the seizure of a radio transmitter in Darwin, that the plain fact was that the transmitter was being operated unlawfully. I also refer to a question which I directed to  Senator Withers  on 26 February this year about an application by a  Mr Neilly  in Darwin for a licence to operate a radio transmitting to East Timor.  Senator Withers  then answered that this was a matter for the Postal and Telecommunications Department and that he would obtain an answer as to whether a licence had been granted and as to the Government's attitude to the granting of a licence. I now ask: Has a licence been granted? In view of the current circumstances, what is the Government's attitude to the granting of such a licence? 
-My question is to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I refer to a letter dated 25 August from the Attorney-General to members of Parliament relating to the appointment of marriage celebrants in which the Minister, at page 2, stated: 
I am anxious that the program should be completely apolitical. I have therefore taken the view that members of the Parliament, State or Federal, should not be appointed. 
I ask the Minister whether he takes the view that that is a firm view of the Government and that members of Parliament should not be marriage celebrants? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications refers to 6 advertisements which appeared in the  Government Gazette  of 16 September relating to positions in the research and policy area of Australian broadcasting and television. As these 6 positions duplicate positions in the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, what is the Government's policy in relation to the duplication of positions already existing? Do the advertisements not pre-empt the finding of the broadcasting and television inquiry in which the Postal and Telecommunications Department as the conducting body has a vested interest? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Was it the practice until about April 1976 of Radio Australia to transmit English language programs from separate studios, each program being specifically designed for the area to which it was being transmitted. 
Has Radio Australia since about April 1976 been broadcasting only one English language program, irrespective of where it is being transmitted to and is such program prepared in one studio. 
3 ) If this change has taken place, what is the reason for it. 
Was such a change proposed several years ago and abandoned because of strong listener reaction. 
If such changes have been made, what has the listener reaction been since about April 1976. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the decision of 28 August of this year to sell the equipment of the film processing laboratory of Film Australia. I ask the Minister: Did an auction take place on Thursday, 7 October, of the contents of that laboratory under the auspices of his Department? At the commencement of that auction did the auctioneer indicate that the entire equipment would be sold as one lot in spite of the distribution of an itemised catalogue which attracted a number of prospective buyers of individual items? Were the contents of the laboratory sold for the sum of $6,000 in spite of the fact that a conservative estimate of their value was $200,000? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to previous questions which I have asked him up to 6 weeks ago about the financing of ethnic radio in Australia and the joint statement issued on 14 October by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I again ask the Minister whether the Government has had discussions with the Australian Broadcasting Commission about the financing of ethnic radio within the budget of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. What is to happen to those ethnic radio stations licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act whose licences will expire on 30 October this year? Have they been advised of the situation regarding funding for their future operation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the 'Waller' Committee on Radio Australia completed its report. 
Will the report be tabled in the Parliament. 
If the report is not to be tabled in the Parliament, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What authority, or department, is responsible for the administration of program standards for radio stations licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. 
) Is any, and what authority monitoring such stations. 
-The Senate is debating a motion about the state of civil liberties in Australia, particularly in Queensland. I am somewhat disappointed to find that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  (Senator Durack)  decided to conclude his speech with some sort of ritualistic huff and puff in the Mohammed Ali tradition- sort of warming up for a fight but throwing no punches- by talking about his latest found malpractices amongst trade unions. 
-I am really surprised. I hope that  Senator Tehan,  a Victorian  Senator, will  tell us when he speaks in this debate about the current work to regulations strike by the Victorian Police Force. I hope that he, as a Victorian senator, will tell us what he thinks are the political and civil liberty implications of that strike. Representing his State as he does, and representing the Party which he does, he will no doubt have an opportunity to say something worthwhile about that matter. 
-I will talk about Queensland later, if I may. I know it is desirable as far as the honourable senator is concerned that I should not talk about Victoria. The Opposition has moved this urgency motion because somebody, I am not sure whether it was Thomas Jefferson or  Senator Withers,  made the comment that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. We are concerned to be very vigilant about this issue. One finds that in response to the speech made by  Senator Keeffe,  and no doubt in response to a memorandum directed to his Department saying please find me all instances of what we have done as a government in the area of civil liberties',  Senator Durack  has sort of thrown together his speech which amounts to nothing more than a catalogue of things which this Government has been able to do in fulfilment of legislation introduced and passed by the Labor Government and in fulfilment of commissions established by the Labor Goverment, all of which were criticised, opposed and so on by  Senator Durack  and his colleagues last year. 

 Senator Keeffe dealt with particular matters relating to Queensland. I do not want to delve into that area very deeply. I have made some study and I am familiar with what I think is locally called the chook Act in Queensland which makes it possible for a government official to enter premises without a warrant to see how many chooks a person has and things of that kind, which does sound to be reprehensible in the terms in which we have become accustomed to use that word in this Parliament. I do not want to dwell on those matters. I want quite early in what I have to say to give credit to the Government for the reference which it has made to the Law Reform Commission on the question of privacy. I think that is an important and bold step for this Government to take and one which displays a degree of contemporary understanding which I find surprising. I am certainly happy and pleased to be able to congratulate the Government on making that reference. 
I remind  Senator Durack  that it was a reference to a commission established by the Labor Government which laid the foundation for a wider view of civil liberties than we had previously had in this country. I think there is a tendency to talk about civil liberties in a very traditional sort of way. I was surprised again that  Senator Durack  did not show any appreciation of the breadth which that expression might be expanded to embrace when one looks at the matter in the context of the 1970s and beyond. I am surprised that, as the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  he did not offer some explanation to the Senate on why the committee looking into discrimination in employment has not met since May 1976 and why none of the similar State committees have met since June 1976. 1 do not know whether the Minister would be able to tell us why that is; in case he cannot do so, I will tell him. The reason is that the Government has not appointed chairmen for those committees and therefore they cannot be convened. It is not surprising that this Government does not rate that matter very highly. When I asked a question about that in March of this year I was told that it was the Government's intention to establish a committee to deal with discrimination in employment. The fact of the matter is that such a committee had been operating very successfully for 2 years and reports of that committee had been tabled in this Parliament. That is how much this Government cares about the issue of discrimination in employment, in spite of the fact that nearly 2 pages in the Liberal Party's policy document and in the Liberal Party's program deal with the importance of discrimination in employment. 
As I said, we get all this huff and puff from the Minister about what has been done about the state of civil liberties. He leaves out something which ought to be right in front of his nose as a Minister- the question of discrimination in employment. That is ignored. He made some comments about the Australian Legal Aid Office which I find highly dubious and highly tendentious. Although some jiggery-pokery has been done with the guidelines and so on, the fact of the matter is that the ALOA has been considerably inhibited by this Government in its activities. There is still a great deal of confusion amongst the public in Australia about the appropriate source of legal aid and the appropriate availability of legal aid. That confusion illustrates one very simple point. It is all very well to talk about civil liberties in the traditional sense, but an enlargement of civil liberties involves those possibilities on enforcement of rights being made available to a much wider section of the community. 
-Senator Chaney says hear, hear!' I appreciate his personal view on that, but throughout the period of Labor Government members of his party dragged their feet on this issue. They were not prepared to accept it. 
Let me refer to one other issue which the Minister omitted to mention in his speech. I refer to the emphasis which has been given or not given to the Racial Discrimination Act which was passed by this Parliament last year. The Act has not become effective in Australia because of the lack of money and staff made available to the Commissioner for Community Relations and the watering down of the capacity of that commission to carry out the functions which it is given under the Act. Both the Racial Discrimination Act and the discrimination in employment question are classic examples of the failure of this Government to carry out the obligations which are imposed on it under international conventions and, particularly in the case of the discrimination in employment situation, the clear undertakings given by previous governments in Australia to establish a satisfactory method of endeavouring to prevent at a State level discrimination in employment in the signatory States. 
I notice that the Minister mentioned the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which may be lumbering slowly towards activity of some kind. An Estimates Committee was told last week that there were precisely 2 cases before that tribunal at this stage. The real criticism of what has happened in relation to that tribunal is that its facilities are just not known io the people who might be beneficiaries of them. That involves in a sense a total failure to expand the civil liberties of people concerned. I was asked by  Senator Tehan  to deal with Queensland. I have some very grave and nervous hesitation in speaking about Queensland because I might be involved in a deliberate attack on the Premier. Only last week on 15 October an advertisement appeared in the  Courier Mai I  which stated: 
Deliberate and Malicious Attacks Against Our Premier are Unchristian. 
The Senate will know that the last thing I would want to be called is unchristian. I want to refer to that advertisement to make quite clear the hestitation I feel about talking about Queensland. The advertisement states: 
The Word of God says: 
I exhort therefore, that first of all that petitions, prayers, requests, and thanksgivings be offered to God for all men; for kings and all others who are in authority, that we may live a quiet and peaceful life, in all godliness and honesty. ' 
Hundreds of thousands of committed Christians SUPPORT OUR PREMIER because of- 
His twenty years on Government benches and support for clean, stable, Christian government- 
His exemplary family life and challenge to Queenslanders to maintain health of mind and morals- 
His unstinting support for TRUE civil liberty and rights for the oppressed, both here and abroad 
His strong support for law and order- the basis of any civilised society- 
His love of God and family, the Crown and the Constitution, his concern for the people of Queensland and Australia- 
It is an interesting dichotomy- concern for the people of Queensland and concern for the people of Australia. I have spoken generally about my concern for the people of Australia and I want to spend one or two minutes expressing some concern for the people of Queensland. I want to do it on the basis of this advertisement because one of the things that is happening in Queensland which concerns many people, including members of the Liberal Party- State members, I would not put it any wider than that- is the erosion of civil liberties in that State and the sort of hysterical manifestations which have emerged in Queensland in support of the sort of rubbish in this advertisement. 
Let us consider some of the matters which are suggested. Firstly, Christianity in political circles is determined, it appears, by one's tenure of the government benches- 20 years on the government benches- and support for clean, stable government. Of course, standards vary from place to place. Undoubtedly there is stable government in Queensland if one uses that word stable' in the most literal sense; but clean government? One used to regard it as a sort of civil libertarian standard that people in positions of authority and power should try to behave in such a way that there was no conflict of interest between the performance of their duties as people in power and the interests which they were elected to represent. In the old-fashioned world in which I was brought up I should not have though: that clean government involved accepting shares from a mining company operating in one's State and allocating them to Ministers in one's government. That is probably an old-fashioned view of civil liberties which might not appeal to the very contemporary-minded senators on the Government benches opposite. 
Let us consider other matters suggested in this advertisement. It refers to the concern which the Queensland Premier has for the Constitution. I should have thought that those of us who have been in this place for some time would not have found the conduct of the Premier of Queensland exemplary in that regard last year when a vacancy occurred in the Senate. There are are all sorts of examples of similar kinds set out in this advertisement which clearly characterise not just an erosion in terms of legislation but also an erosion in terms of conduct by the Queensland Government and the people who apparently support it. That was well illustrated and referred to by  Senator Keeffe  by reference to what has now become known as the Cedar Bay incidentCedar Bay a sort of Galway Bay of the northern State.  Senator Durack,  in explaining the involvement of the Federal Government, referred only to the Customs Department not to the involvement of the Navy in that matter. I should have thought the Government had some sort of responsibility to answer the questions which have been put in this place about the involvement of the Navy and the evidence upon which Commonwealth officers acted in taking part in that incident on 29 August. 
-I do not know what his position was but I should have thought that the Government had some responsibility in that matter. This question has not been answered. 
-The Opposition agrees with the suggestion of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  In fact we regard it as one of the most brilliant suggestions he has ever made in the Senate and we will deal with the 3 Bills on that basis. 
I indicate, if I am not to be interrupted by  Senator Wright,  that the Opposition does not oppose these 3 Bills. The Bills are the legislative consequence of a statement made in this place by  Senator Withers  on 3 June to which we made some response at the time. There is perhaps little we have to add at this stage except by way of comment. I should perhaps first deal with the amendment relating to the Australia Council Act- a matter which I think we mentioned on 3 June. This is the sort of legislation which, in essence, could have been introduced by any party after the 2 years or so that the Australia Council's role had been assessed. In a sense these are machinery amendments in the main dealing with matters such as the size of the boards, the extension of the term of the members of the boards and the appointment of an executive officer which may, of course, be a controversial issue in the community concerned but is not, in the context of this legislation, in itself a controversial matter. 
The reduction in the size of the Council, the extension of the terms of the members of the board and the alteration to the size of the board may, in time, tend to result in a heightened degree of bureaucratic rigidity in the structure of the Australia Council but that is something about which we can only speculate and which might properly be reviewed by the Parliament again in two or three years time. Since the Australia Council was established there have been a great number of criticisms, not only public criticisms but also criticisms by committees of this Parliament, of some of the aspects of the functioning of the Council. It may be that these amendments are a response to that criticism. However we alert the Parliament to the fact that it may be a matter that may need to be looked at again. At this stage we regard it as a reasonable sort of experiment in connection with the structure of the various parts of the Australia Council. 
One aspect of the Australia Council legislation is closely related to the Bill dealing with the Australian Film Commission. That is the abolition of the Film, Radio and Television Board insofar as the Australia Council is concerned and the transfer of its functions to the Australian Film Commission. Since 3 June I understand that the Australian Film Commission, with a degree of speed and flexibility, has sought to embrace the functions of that Board within the Commission and that at least at this stage a satisfactory accommodation has been made to carry on the work of that former Board of the Australia Council. We criticised that transfer at the time and, in a sense, we renew that criticism to the extent that the criteria of the Australian Film Commission in relation to the assistance which it gives to the Australian film industry are basically commercial criteria. Insofar as the Board of the Australia Council engaged in the production of experimental films we see a potential conflict between the experimental film function of that Board and the overall approach of the Australian Film Commission. We do not in any way decry the Australian Film Commission because of that and we are sure that it will try to accommodate that situation, but we draw attention to that conflict of interest. 
Only a few weeks ago I was privileged to see some of the films which that Board had produced or which had been produced under the auspices of that Board. Some of them were extremely interesting and in respect of most of them one could say that they definitely fell into an experimental basket. We hope that that capacity, in what was the Board, will be retained to sponsor and carry out experimental film work. In the community similar concern has been expressed about the radio functions of that Board and how that will be fitted in and accommodated by the Australian Film Commission. At this stage we are confident that the Commission will try to do that and we hope it is successful. We are not confident that it necessarily will be so. 
I turn now to the legislation relating to the Australian Film and Television School. The basic amendment is to include a definition of broadcasting in the Film and Television School Act so that the School can cater for audio-visual functions and accommodate radio as an allied discipline to film making, film production and so on. This year the Government has made a significant cut in the Budget allocation to the Film and Television School. This has affected the capacity of the outside program of the Film and Television School. In a sense I suppose it will retard the creative and educational function of that School for part time students. A number of television and film producers and aspirant television and film producers within the last month have attended outside courses conducted by the Film and Television School in Canberra. Those courses generally were regarded as highly successful. It is unfortunate that that program may have to be curtailed because of the limitation of funds. 
When one talks about the Film and Television School I think the Government, as well as the Parliament, should be concerned about the situation of graduates of that School. I believe there is a lot of feeling in the industry that graduates of that School are not necessarily suitable persons for employment in industry because of lack of practical experience. This is a problem we face in this Parliament in relation to the products of many institutions engaged in educational functions of one kind or another. The Film and Television School is not immune from that problem. We hope that the Government will look at that problem because it is one which concerns the industry and will concern graduates of the Film and Television School in the next year or so. 
The only other point I add to what we have said previously about these 3 Bills is that they come into the Parliament now, on 20 October, in a sense as Bills dealing with the arts in Australia, the administration of the arts, the development of film and the training of film and television personnel under the cloud, if I may put it that way, of a draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission which was brought down a few days ago and which has been the subject of much public discussion. I wish to go on record as saying, in contradistinction to much of the public comment that has been made about the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, that the report seems to me to be a thoroughly worthwhile document. I do not agree with it. I do not believe that the Government will agree with it. I do not believe that the Opposition, if it were in government, would agree with the conclusions and recommendations of the report. On the other hand, I think it is a very valuable document for people concerned about public accountability of the arts, the film industry and so on, and the responsibility of legislators in Australia who have to be concerned with the problem of subsidising industries of one kind or another, particularly the arts. 
I draw attention to some of the important critical conclusions that the IAC report reaches which have a bearing on these questions. It seems to me that the IAC has been confused, in some respects, by the use of the word 'elitist'. It has confused the concept of quality in the arts with the question of privilege of" consumers of the arts. As a Parliament we must be concerned about quality. If we look at the 3 institutions- the Film and Television School, the Australian Film Commission and the Australia Council- our consistent concern must be that high quality is aimed for and maintained in relation to all their endeavours. But the question of privilege for consumers of the arts, whether in the form of films, products of the various boards of the Australian Council or the Film and Television School, is totally different. Some very critical questions are raised in the IAC report about which value judgments must be made. For example, the question is raised whether a society like ours is justified in subsidising seats at the opera to the extent of $17 a seat when a very small percentage of the community attends opera, when the facility of the Australian Opera is not made available to citizens of Western Australia, for example, and when those who do attend the opera belong to a particularly high ranking socio-economic group. At the same time, this country, by means of parliamentary appropriation, does very little to improve the standards of Australian television. I take the example of children's television in Australia. It may be that as a result of the activities of the Australian Film Commission and as a result of the activities of the Film and Television School at some distant date in the future the quality of children's television in Australia may improve. But the quality at the moment is appalling and very little money is being spent on it. Last year in the Australian Capital Territory the Australian Council of Children's Film and Television conducted a survey which showed that the average primary school child watches television for 30 hours a week. That is nearly as much time as the average Australian works in a week. The cultural medium and the cultural values of those children are being obtained basically from television. They are not being obtained from the Australian Opera, the Australian Ballet or any of the large prestige arts organisations which this Parliament continues to fund and to sponsor. When one talks about quality and privilege it is important, I believe, for the Parliament to distinguish between these 2 things. There is no doubt that consumers of the prestige arts organisations in Australia are priviliged and that the children of Australia are grossly underprivileged in what they consume and in what might be described as their cultural  milieu.  The product of what they consume is inferior. It is questions like those raised in the report which should cause us to make a fundamental appraisal of the values of what we are doing in regard to expenditure on the arts in Australia and the expenditure which is devoted already to the 3 organisations which are the subject of these 3 Bills. 
I raise this matter because I think that the Industries Assistance Commission whether by accident or design, has, by applying criteria which are more appropriate to other industries, raised some very important questions at which we in this Parliament should be looking and which involve very important value judgments for Australian society. After all, we as a nation- or some of us, I suppose- are proud of the international achievements of the Australian Ballet and the Australian Opera. But when one looks at the results in terms of the Australian community and the services and facilities which those organisations provide to the Australian community as a whole, perhaps our priorities are not quite what they ought to be. 
It is not only that aspect which is raised in the report. There are also very important issues raised in respect of those organisations such as the question, which is implicit in the IAC report, of whether we will continue to subsidise opera seats to the extent of $17 a seat, as we do now, or whether we should subsidise them to the extent of $50 a seat so that more people can attend the opera with the result that its facilities are much more widely spread. As an opera-hater, I would not recommend that course. I would certainly oppose it. But that is a personal bias and I do not want to inflict that bias on the value judgments about which I am talking. 
As I have indicated, the Opposition has already stated its basic position in relation to these 3 Bills. The Opposition has a number of doubts about them. But the Opposition thinks that in each case the Bills are legitimate attempts to try to rectify what are essentially structural matters. The Opposition trusts that from time to time the Parliament will have further opportunities to review the activities of each of the organisations which are the subject of these Bills and to keep a continuing eye on the situation. I commend the Bills in general to the Senate. The Opposition will not oppose the Bills either at the second reading stage or in Committee. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Central Reference Unit of the Australian Government Publishing Service been abolished; if so, why has this source of information been denied to the public 
-Earlier this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in an interview with the American magazine  Variety,  indicated that as far as he was concerned it would be business as usual for importers into Australia of overseas, particularly American, film and television programs. That is to say, business as usual after an interrupted 3 year period during the time that the Labor Government was in office. In the course of this year the Australian content of television programs in Australia has dropped from 43 per cent to 34 per cent. In the light of both the Prime Minister's statement and these figures which I just mentioned, I want to draw some attention to the somewhat disastrous state of the television industry in Australia at the moment. I am not talking about its profits, because as everybody knows commercial television in Australia has been having a record period of profit making in the last 6 months. 
I raise these matters in this particular discussionof course, they are relevant to the appropriation for the Postal and Telecommunications Department and, indeed, other departmentsbecause there is considerable concern in the community in regard to the continuing of production of Australian drama and television programs. It is perhaps appropriate to raise these matters at this time because this building is full of rumours of an impending announcement by the Government of the results of the inquiry into broadcasting and television. I suppose most members of the Senate have had an opportunity to read the submission to Cabinet and the associated documents which have been circulated quite widely in the past week or so. It is anticipated that the Government will make an announcement about this matter in the next day or two. 
The particular matters to which I wish to refer are of the utmost concern to people engaged in film and television production in Australia. For some time we have had a small but relatively viable and relatively independent television film production industry in this country. It now sees that independence threatened by the importation of what are admittedly cheaper- but cheaper in every sense- television productions. If we look first of all at the position of the Australian Broadcasting Commission we will see that the Budget cuts which have been made in the course of the last 8 months have led to a significant decline in the Commission's drama production. The quantum of drama programs produced by the ABC has been reduced consistently in recent months and only one or two of the present proposed drama series are in fact continuing. In fact, people who normally were engaged in ABC drama work are at the moment being offered alternative work within the ABC but outside the production area. The ABC has found itself forced into a position of coproduction ventures with commercial interests and international co-production ventures in which it is associated basically with American companies perhaps on a basis that should be examined more closely by this Parliament because it does seem to be a very unfavourable basis on which the ABC should enter into such agreements. One sees first of all on the national network ofthe ABC not only a decline in drama production and television production generally but also a decline in the employment of creative talent in these areas. If one looks at the commercial sector, which if I might say so has never been strong on local content apart from jingles and inferior programming, one finds again that little Australian talent is being employed at the present time. 
But what of the film production industry itself? I said before that both television advertisements and television drama programs were being made in Australia to quite a significant degree by local television production companies. That situation seems at the moment to be very much threatened, at least in Sydney. If one looks at the ownership of Australian commercial television and consider the fact that it is impossible to buy advertising time on Australian commercial television at least until about March of next year, one sees first of all the effects of a monopoly or an oligopoly situation on the part ofthe commercial proprietors and the consequences of this for people who want to get programs on television. This has been exacerbated in the past few months by developments in the television production industry in Australia. 
I suppose that one of the key starting points was when the proprietors of Channel 9, Television Corporation Ltd, acquired control of Video-Tape Corporation Pty Ltd in Sydney and appointed a manager to that corporation. The practical situation in regard to Australian television production is that most Australian content productions are produced by independent producers. For showing on television they are transferred to video tape, and that is done in Australia basically by 3 companies. That is another monopoly situation in the media which is of the utmost important importance and it is a matter to which I want to point in a moment. The 3 companies which basically have the facility- it is a very expensive facility- for transferring films produced by film production companies to video tape for showing on television are a company known as Armstrong's Agency in Melbourne, which is very largely owned by David Syme and Co. Ltd, the proprietors of the Melbourne  Age;  a company called Enterprise, Colorvideo Productions Pty Ltd, in Sydney, which might be described at this stage as an independent company which performs the function of producing video tape for television; and an institution known as the Video-Tape Corporation, which is owned, to put it bluntly, by the Packer interests and has been so owned for four or five months. 
The consequence of that sort of strict monopoly position has been revealed to Australian television producers quite recently in the following way: It is the practice of producers to farm out, as it were, various aspects of the work of the production of a television program. Let me take one example, that of an episode of a program known as  Case for the Defence  which was to appear on Channel 9 in Sydney. A Sydney production house, Reg Grundy Productions Pty Ltd, a long-standing television producer in this country, let out to another firm the job of technically producing a production of  Case for the Defence. 
That was done by quotation, as it is normally done, and it was to be shown eventually on the Channel 9 network. Subsequently, the Channel 9 network advised Reg Grundy Productions, which had sought to produce this program, that the program would effectively go to air on Channel 9 in Sydney only if all work relating to it was carried out at Video-Tape Corporation- the corporation which is now owned by the Packer interests. So, what is happening is that Australian television producers are being told: 'You cannot get your programs to air in this country unless you have them made at the corporation- the final production house- which we, the proprietors of commercial television in Australia, own'. That situation, which has emerged in the past few months, is probably a breach of the Trade Practices Act- I hope that  Senator Durack,  as the Minister representing the Attorney-General in this place, will be examining that matter- but whether that is so or not is a matter to be determined elsewhere. 
I come back to the point which I was making earlier; that is, the effect this has on creative production for television in Australia, on the employment of creative artists in Australia and on the development of any sort of cultural identity in this country which we might hope for and reasonably expect in 1976. This sort of development comes at a time when there is an Industries Assistance Commission report on the arts in Australia which has turned up some fairly revolutionary suggestions, to put it mildly; at a time when there is an inquiry into the broadcasting and television industry which is solely concerned with the structure of the industry; and, as I said the other night, at a time when there is a situation in this country in which the average primary school child spends more time watching television than he spends at school. We have a series of somewhat pompous reports about the structural situation of various industries- if one can call the arts an industry- the structural situation of the broadcasting and television industry. At the same time there is a stranglehold on the creative production process in Australia, very extensive arrangements for the cheap importation of commercial television programs from the United States and a situation in which there is not one body in Australia, including the Government, which seems to be seriously concerned with the sort of cultural development we get when, as I said, children of primary school age are watching television for more hours than they are attending school. They are imbibing, one suspects, their cultural values from that sort of programming. 
No money is being spent in any serious way by the Australian Government on this problem. None of the inquiries has really directed the sort of searching attention which ought to be directed to it. Ultimately the question of whether Australian children will be brought up with a secondhand culture and secondhand experiences obtained from television or whether they are to be involved in more creative experiences of a first-hand kind will of course depend on Australians; it will not depend on the importation of pap from the United States- or it might do, tragically. But it should not depend on that and that is and should be a matter of great concern to this Parliament. It is not only a question of the sort of cultural cringe being assumed again, the sort of attitude displayed by the Prime Minister in his interview with the magazine  Variety,  but it is also a matter of great consequence to people employed in the television industry who have been squeezed out of employment of a creative kind, people employed in the creative arts who are likewise threatened by a similar process. I think it is a matter of urgency that the Parliament look to this matter. The Film and Television Producers Association of Australia is very concerned about it. It is a body which, as I said, enjoyed some independence in the past and has done some good work towards the improvement of standards in this country. It is because of its concern and the concern of others engaged in a most important aspect of creativity in Australia that I raise these matters in the Senate tonight. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that the stevedoring company James Patrick and Company is the principal stevedoring company for the Australian National Line? Is it a fact also that  Sir Reginald  Reed, the  chairman  of Patrick Partners, who apparently receives a remuneration of some $600,000 a year, is also a vice-chairman of the Australian National Line and  chairman  of the Australian Shipbuilding Board? Does the Minister feel it is appropriate that a person should be in those 3 positions? Has the Government taken any action on this matter? 
-I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the statement by  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, a few minutes ago. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet as at 30 June 1977. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it not a fact that section 32 of the Broadcasting and Television Act was inserted in 1960 by a Liberal Government to provide for the term of commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and with the specific purpose of ensuring the integrity of the ABC and the continuity of members of the Commission? Can it be construed from the statement made last Thursday by the Minister,  Mr Eric  Robinson, that the position of the staff-elected member of the Commission,  Mr Marius  Webb, is in jeopardy? If that is so, does the Minister regard this as being consistent with the oft stated policy of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, with  Sir John  Egerton being used as the prime example, that employee representatives should be on the boards of government instrumentalities. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation on the basis that I have been misrepresented by my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill. 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill with more enthusiasm than I would have thought the Senate could have mustered tonight. It is a most complex piece of legislation involving amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act dealing with rules relating to elections in trade unions. The Bill has been introduced both in the House of Representatives and the Senate, accompanied by a great deal of noisy rhetoric about the desirability of having democracy in trade unions. That has become like motherhood- a cliche in all industrial debates in this Parliament. It has been used with great abundance by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech. 
The amendments which the Bill basically proposes deal with the question of elections of officers of trade unions and employer organisations. They make changes to the definition of the term 'office' as it appears in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The essential feature of the legislation is to introduce a system of collegiate voting as an alternative to the present direct system of voting for union officials who are appointed on a full time basis. There are a number of quite peculiar features of the details of this legislation to which I shall refer in the course of my remarks. 
The whole exercise in terms of an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act displays yet another example of the Government's shooting from the hip in its industrial relations policy. Its accompaniment of pious statements of intent with sloppy legislation I believe does not even achieve the result which the Government sets out to achieve. In this case, quite clearly the Government has bowed to minority pressure groups in the trade union movement- minority pressure groups which the Government correctly believes would be supporters of the Government in any political situation and would only criticise the Government for its shortcomings of conservatism. In addition, the legislation displays a confused and weak policy. It ignores the real issues of industrial relations which, for example, were raised very directly by the Premier of New South Wales yesterday as reported in today's newspapers. The real issues of industrial relations in Australia are not necessarily the methods of election of union officials or catering for the wishes of minority interests in trade unions. They are the issues of a unified system of industrial relations, the Commonwealth industrial relations power and union amalgamation. These are more important questions than the questions the Government has attempted to grapple with in this much heralded legislation. Since this Government came to office, we have seen a number of attempts to exorcise what the Government believes to be the devils of the industrial relations system, namely, militant trade union officials. We had the secret ballot legislation earlier this year the effectiveness of which, in our view, will be very doubtful. It was legislation which really just attacked false objectives in order to give some impression of activity in the area of the conciliation and arbitration system. 
With regard to the question of union elections, the present system of voting for office holders is by direct vote of members of the union in respect of the election of full time officials. I think that is a simple and correct statement of the effects of the existing legislation introduced in 1973 by the Labor Government. That system has never been tested in any real sense because the unions which were required to alter their rules to introduce a system of direct voting for their officials had until the end of November this year to carry out the necessary alterations to their rules. A lot of them had done so with very little complaint and a lot of them had done so with some degree of complaint. I agree completely with the Minister when he says in his second reading speech that of course there are differences of opinion in our community. There are differences of opinion within the trade union movement and within employer organisations operating in the industrial field as to the desirability of alternative systems of voting for the election of officials. It is interesting to note that in 1973 when the Labor Government introduced the legislation providing for direct election of officials, it was not voted against or opposed by the then Opposition which now finds it a subject of condemnation and necessarily requiring change in the year 1976. In the 1973 debate in the House of Representatives,  Mr Fraser,  the present Prime Minister, said, referring to  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the then Minister for Labor: 
The Minister is going to a very considerable length to see that union officials are properly elected- democratically elected- by their unions. 
That was the view of the present Prime Minister in 1973 of the existing legislation. All through the election campaigns which followed in 1974 and in 1975, references were made by people such as  Mr Fraser  and later by  Mr Street  to the desirability of membership control of trade unions. The secret ballot legislation which was introduced in June of this year, poorly drawn up as it was, was put forward as another example of the Government's intention and concern to introduce a greater degree of democracy into the affairs of trade unions. Now we have a further attempt. As I said earlier, it is of course justified by a great deal of empty rhetoric. For example, the Minister, in his second reading speech, begins with these words: 
All members of the Parliament are, I am sure, committed to democratic control of trade unions and employer organisations. The cornerstone of democratic control is membership participation. The essential question is how to provide for the fullest participation of membership in a manner which recognises the structural diversity of organisations. 
Now it all sounds very fine, I must admit. All of us are in favour of all that and share that view, but when it is analysed, of course, it means nothing. When it is analysed in terms of the legislation now before the Senate, it means even less than nothing if that be possible. As I said earlier, we can all argue the merits and demerits of various systems. There has been lobbying, of course, on all sides for various systems to be introduced. It has been common knowledge in industrial relations circles in this country for a period of about 6 months that it was the Government's intention to reintroduce as an alternative to direct election a system of collegiate elections. Union officials have told me that. Union officials have openly discussed that fact because some of them have been told by representatives of the Government that this would happen. Of course, it has happened at the death knock, in November 1976, right at the time when the 3-year period for alteration to rules expired. 
I should like to give some attention to specific matters quite distinct from the statement of intent which the Minister makes in his second reading speech. It is our contention that not only is this legislation sloppy and ill conceived but also it will in fact achieve results which are directly contrary to that past statement of intent which I read from the Minister's second reading speech. I should like to take up one point of clarity. It is not even clear from the legislation whether the provisions which the Government now seeks to introduce apply to the election of branch officials. It is not clear because in different parts of the legislation- I will refer to this at the Committee stage- the word 'organisation' is used and in other parts the word ' branch ' is used. It is not clear whether the principle which the Minister enunciates applies both to elections for organisations and for branches themselves. We can deal with that at the Committee stage. 
The first fundamental criticism we make is that by denying or offering an alternative system to direct rank and file elections of full time officials, the Government is not only going back on its stated intentions but it is also catering to a rather 1 890-ish view of how trade unions operate because it is expressed by the Minister that the fear the Government has is that the majority of members of a union situated in one State might in fact control the committee of management of that union to the detriment of its members in a smaller State. I find that an extraordinarily interesting contention which is totally unsubstantiated by evidence. Nowhere in the course of debate in the House of Representatives, nowhere in remarks the Minister has made as yet and nowhere in my experience has there been a situation of a trade union in which the committee of management was controlled entirely by representatives of a State which had the largest membership to the exclusion of members of the committee of management from a smaller State. Nowhere have I struck an organisation in that situation and nowhere has one been referred to which can justify the contention which has been made. 
We see the proposal as fundamentally undemocratic in terms of the sort of intentions which the Government itself has stated in the past. We were told only a few months ago how important it was to have a secret ballot for all members of trade unions. The important emphasis which was stressed by Government Ministers at that time was the involvement of the members of the union themselves in those elections. It seems to us strange that at this stage in a variety of ways the members of the unions will no longer be directly involved in the election of their officials. True, they will participate in the election of an electorate college in some circumstances and that itself is subject to qualification. The second point that I want to make in specific terms is the alteration to the definition of 'office' in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The word 'office' has been the subject of much debate and interpretation in the Commonwealth Industrial Court and, indeed, in a different context in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The danger that we see in the alteration which is now made is that under the proposed alteration an appointed administrative officer of a union will be able to operate and, in fact, perform almost identical functions to the functions which are performed by an elected officer. It is one of the grave difficulties which an elected officer of a trade union faces and one of the grave responsiblities which he assumes that by virtue of his office and his election he is entitled to do certain things; indeed, he is bound to do certain things. But to arrive at a definition of the word office' which in fact allows an appointed administrative officer to perform many of the functions which are now exclusively reserved for an elected officer in our view is fraught with dangers in terms of the much vaunted democratic principle which is enunciated in the second reading speech. 
It is interesting to note, of course, that the second reading speech is very different from the one made in the House of Representatives. When this legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives the Government had not made up its mind about it or, rather,  Mr Santamaria  had not made up the Government's mind about it. It was during the course of the debate in the House of Representatives that various additional amendments were moved at the instigation of certain sections of the trade union movement. Amendments were introduced in the House of Representatives halfway through the debate and it is to these in particular that I wish to refer. On page 3 of the Minister's second reading speech reference is made to the constitution of the electoral college which will elect officers of an organisation. This provision which might be described is a self-perpetuating provision may have had great appeal to the Hapsburgs and may, indeed, have great appeal to the National Civic Council. But in terms of democratic elections and the dynamics of an industrial organisation, it is a most extraordinary provision. The reason given by the Government for abolishing multi-tier elections seems to us to be totally inconsistent with this provision which is now included and referred to in the Minister's second reading speech. What is that provision? It is stated by the Minister in these terms:  . . the Government's policy is to ensure that management reflects rank and file views. 
That is a good statement. It is unobjectionable. The Minister states further: 
What the Government proposes, therefore, is that current office holders from time to time can be members of the college which elects persons to those offices for the following term, provided that those office bearers do not constitute more than 15 per cent of the members of the college. Those office bearers must have been elected originally to the college and by the college to those positions or, alternatively, to those positions by a direct voting system and must have held office continuously, though not necessarily the same office, since being first elected to office. 
That provision is designed to protect current office holders in certain unions, such as the Federated Clerks Union. For example, if one looks at - 
Well, senator, it is not absolute rot. It is absolute Jack Maynes. I will tell  Senator Walters  about him if she wants to say that he is rot. He has been on the federal council of the Federated Clerks Union for 22 years without having had to face an election. If you,  Senator Walters,  want to get up afterwards and tell us that it is rot or alternatively, that it is democratic or alternatively, that it is consistent with the Government's pious statements of intention about democratising- if that is the correct word -industrial organisations, then I will be very glad to hear about it. But it is not rot. It is a fact and it may be, if we have to persist with the word used by  Senator Walters,  that there is something rotten in the state of Denmark, or in the Federated Clerks Union, which this Government wants to protect.  Senator Walters  will be a party to that no doubt when she puts up her hand at the appropriate time. The point I am concerned to make, which has apparently stirred  Senator Harradine  to some extent, is that this provision gives 15 per cent of an electoral college to persons who fall within the Government's stated description of being current office holders who reflect experience and so on. The Government has expressed its concern by introducing at a late stage this amendment in the House of Representatives. 
The next point that should be made is that by the amendments to section 17  ID,  to which the Minister refers, the Government has embarked on a restrictive course in relation to the powers of the Commonwealth Industrial Court following a reconstitution of what is described in the terms of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as an invalidly constituted organisation. The Senate may recall that following problems which developed in the case of  Moore  v.  Doyle  Mr Justice  Sweeney was appointed as a committee of inquiry into industrial organisations. He made recommendations which led to section 17  Id  being included in the legislation. The purpose of that was so that in determining a matter where an invalidity had arisen, the Industrial Court could make certain orders about the system of elections which unions should have. By this amendment- we will discuss it further in the Committee stages- the Court would be restricted in doing this. I should make the point in passing of course that the section to which I have referred recently survived a challenge in the High Court. 
But more significantly the point about this amendment- it is a similar point to the one which  Senator Walters,  who has lost interest in this debate, described earlier on as rot- is that its effect has a direct bearing on a case currently being dealt with by the Commonwealth Industrial Court in which a  Mr Egan  features, I understand together with a  Mr Harradine  who now, wearing his second hat, appears in this chamber tonight. The effect of that amendment to section 17  Id  is to have a decided influence on the possible outcome of the case before the Industrial Court. It is to our mind a matter of great regret that the Government has seen fit to yield to the pressures which have undoubtedly been put upon it in relation to that matter. 
I reiterate our fundamental objections in these terms: The legislation seeks, in the terminology of the Minister, to introduce more democratic systems of elections into trade unions. The system which exists now has not been properly tried. The system which exists now was supported by this Government when it was in Opposition. The Government now seeks an alternative system as an alternative to direct elections and it seeks to make a number of changes which are not of universal significance to the trade union movement. They are not of universal application in the level of their significance but are clearly the results of advice being given to the Government from certain quarters and a failure to look at the whole question in an objective, across the board way. 
It is quite glib for the Minister to say in his second reading speech that the peak councils of the trade union movement have also been informed of the Government 's proposals. I say it is glib because I know that they were informed; they were told what was going to happen. But they were not consulted in any sense about this matter. As an excuse for that, the Minister told us that when he discussed the question last May- if you please- with  Mr Hawke, Mr Hawke  pointed out that there was a division of opinion in the trade union movement on this issue and he could not put a monolithic trade union view. In the same paragraph the Minister said that the peak councils have been informed. Of course there are other peak councils beside the Australian Council of Trade Unions. There has been no proper consultation about the legislation except with a certain section of the trade union movement whose views are reflected in certain specific amendments which are made by this Bill. 
I said earlier that the difficulty about this sort of piecemeal,  ad hoc,  exorcist legislation which the Government keeps introducing in relation to trade unions is that it really does not grapple with the basic issues. I share the Minister's view about the desirability of the highest level of democracy in trade unions. However I do not share the sort of view which he put in the Senate a week or two ago in answer to a Dorothy Dix question about political strikes. The Government has made a little fuss about this question of political strikes but I am not prepared to accept the Government's frame of reference on this question. I am not prepared to accept the premises from which it starts. I agree that there should be democracy in trade unions to the utmost possible degree. I believe that if trade unions are to engage in what are sometimes called political strikes the members of the trade unions concerned should be consulted as much as possible about those decisions. The Government says in this glib sort of 1930 vintage way that there is an area of things which trade unions are legitimately allowed to be concerned with; namely, wages and working conditions. Of course when they do strike about wages and working conditions the Government says that they should not do that. Then to say that there is another area, which we please to call political strikes, which involves things which trade unions should not be concerned about, is both superficial and glib. 
If you possess your soul in patience I will tell you. The fact of the matter is that all sorts of bodies in our society make decisions which have political consequences. I live in the City of Melbourne and for years insurance companies have been making decisions which have destroyed my city. Collins Street, Melbourne, is no longer the place it used to be because decisions have been made in board rooms in New York, London, Melbourne and Sydney which have completely changed the environment of the city in which I live. Those decisions presumably were made by men in grey flannel suits who were responsible to nobody except their shareholders. However, when I go to the Sydney Opera House I like to look at the Moreton Bay fig trees outside the Sydney Opera House. They are a living tribute to political strikes. Those Moreton Bay fig trees would not be there today but for the activities of unionists like Jack Mundey. That is a fact. They are there as a result of a political strike which involved the exercise of power by a group in this community to achieve what it regarded as important social community results. In so doing that - 
Just as the directors of insurance companies put themselves as experts. One could look at this issue in all sorts of areas. But surely in 1976 we must not think about this in an 1 876 frame of reference. 
-You, as a Government supporter, soon will be faced with decisions about whether you want to live in a society which is dependent on nuclear power. It may be that many people in this community who expect to gain a lot in terms of money from nuclear power will support that proposition, but many people involved in trade unions will oppose that proposition because they do not see it being in the interests of their society, their children or the community in which they live. 
When we talk about democracy in trade unions I think it is very important that we should try to put a little substance in to the rhetoric, a little flesh on the bones of the Minister's second reading speech. It is for these reasons that we say the Bill is sloppy and inadequate and will not achieve the sorts of results which it is piously hoped it will achieve. It will not achieve those results because it just does not grapple with the real issues of industrial relations in the 1970s in a dynamic society, if we still continue to be a dynamic society- and of course there may be room for doubt about that. The Government's policy in this area is in disrepute and we oppose the legislation. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and also in his capacity as Minister for Education. I refer to the announcement last night by the Australian Broadcasting Commission of cuts in current affairs programs, particularly the program  State of the Nation.  I ask the Minister whether he considers it appropriate that in a country like Australia there should be not one half-hour program a week on the national broadcasting service dealing with national political events. I further ask: Does the Minister regard it as appropriate that there should be substantial cuts in education programs on the Australian Broadcasting Commission? In that regard I refer him to a question I asked him a month ago and to which I have received no answer. Finally, will the Government take action to rectify this situation in the interests of a national broadcasting service which is appropriate for a country of our supposed level of sophistication? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to the statement brought down in the Senate earlier this week on the structure of the broadcasting industry which was described as a statement of major initiatives. I ask the Minister: Why in that statement was there no reference to the future of public broadcasting in Australia? Has the Government made any decisions about the future of the public broadcasting sector? Is it intended to introduce legislation to provide for a sound basis for the future of public broadcasting? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Science as at 30 June 1977? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to frequent attacks by the then Opposition during the year 1 975 on the then Government concerning the level of industrial unrest which was alleged to be the responsibility of the Government. Is the Minister aware that statistics published on 10 November show that 4 million working days were lost through strikes in the 12 months to August 1976, compared with 3.5 million days lost during the identical period up to August 1975? Does the present Government, in the light of its own established criteria, accept responsibility for the present level of industrial unrest? What steps does the Government propose to take in the next 12 months to attempt to reduce these figures? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What Commonwealth Government funding was provided to the Chromosome Research Foundation in Sydney for Research into genetics of cattle in the past financial year. 
Has any money been made available for such purpose in the current financial year. If not, why have such funds been withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government consider making access to ethnic radio available to ethnic groups from English speaking countries such as Scotland and Ireland in addition to allowing access to ethnic groups from non-English speaking countries. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Social Security as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with the proposal of the Whitlam Government to introduce a Performers' Copyright Act incorporating the principles of the 1961 Rome Convention of the International Labour Organisation. If so, when will the legislation be proceeded with. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services and as a result of the conjunction of fine minds in geographical proximity it closely relates to the question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland a moment ago. I ask: How many copies of the report of the inquiry into broadcasting and television have been printed? 
-Yes. Are copies available at government publication offices for purchase by interested members of the public? If so, at what price? How serious is this Government in its stated intention of encouraging informed public debate on the issues in the Green Report? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total amount paid by the Australian Government in the last financial year for rental of office accommodation for Government departments in Melbourne. 
What is the anticipated amount payable for rental of office accommodation for the current financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Defence as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the  Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice. 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Health as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Post and Telecommunications Department as at 30 June 1 977. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Durack  in his capacity of Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of his answer to  Senator Chaney  a few moments ago I ask: Is it not a documented fact that in mid- 1975 employees of insurance companies were paid to attend demonstrations in the streets against legislation of the Labor Government and were paid to attend rallies in the Dallas Brooks Hall in Melbourne and also in Adelaide by their employers for exactly the same purpose? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
With reference to the answers to Senate Question No. 867 relating to the cost of the transmitter at Mount Dowe: 
What is the breakdown of the figure supplied in paragraph 1 of the answer, that is, the total cost; 
does the figure referred to in paragraph 1 of the answer include overheads, long service leave provision and annual leave loading; 
how is the amount of $37,239.81 referred to in paragraph 4 of the answer calculated and does it include amounts in addition to the amount actually paid for the use of the transmitter; and 
in respect of the amounts referred to in the second sentence of paragraph 4 of the answer, when were such amounts paid and in respect of what period. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Administrative Services as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Construction as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of National Resources as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Overseas Trade as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry the following question, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Primary Industry as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of the Treasury as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Foreign Affairs as at 30 June 1977. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows previous questions asked about the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I refer the Minister to Press reports of the 2 previous meetings of the Commission. I ask: Has the  Chairman  of the ABC,  Sir Henry  Bland, yet made any approach to the Government for increased funds to the ABC to meet current cost increases? I particularly refer the Minister to current public concern regarding this matter of which he may be aware. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1 194, why was the Inquiry Service previously operating within the Commonwealth bookshops discontinued in July 1976. 
Why has this source of information been denied to the public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
In view of the absence of any statements from the Government on the future status of public broadcasting, (a) what arrangements have been made for funding the public broadcasting sector in the future, and ( b) is it intended to introduce legislation to establish a basis for the public broadcasting sector. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this legislation; in fact, it supports it. If anybody is interested in the subject, the reasons why we support it are set out in the House of Representatives  Hansard of 16  November 1976 at page 2729. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of the Capital Territory as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Education as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Industry and Commerce as at 30 June 1977. 
I take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  a question. It follows on that section of the Bill which relates to the decision of the High Court of Australia in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act case and to the indication by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to  Sir Charles  Court of the Commonwealth Government's position on this decision. I ask the Minister: Has the Commonwealth Government to this stage given consideration to the question of legislation relating to industrial activities carried on beyond coastal boundaries, as I think they are defined in the Bill? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Transport as at 30 June 1 977. 
-1 present the following petition from 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Television is the single most influential medium for the dissemination of information and for the recording and development of our national identity and culture; 
Children are the most important section of the viewing public in that they are most likely to be affected by the impact of television; 
Australian children, on average, spend more time watching television than in school; 
And believing that: 
The basic problem behind the lack of programmes designed for children is the fundamental divergence of aims between those primarily interested in the welfare of children and the commercial interests of television licensees and their shareholders. 
We request: 
The creation of an Establishment to initiate, research, promote, co-ordinate, fund and produce material for children's consumption through the medium of television, as recommended by Australian Children's Television Action Committee in its submission to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and The Arts 1973; The Australian Broadcasting Control Boards Advisory Committee Report 1974 and the Television Industry Co-ordinating Committee 1975, as a positive step towards providing better quality television for Australian children. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer the Minister to newspaper reports that  Sir Henry  Bland, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, threatened to resign because of statements made by the Prime Minister which were regarded as political interference in the management of the ABC. I ask the Minister: Are those newspaper reports correct? Is it correct that the Government moved quickly to placate  Sir Henry  Bland? If so, who is running the country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs as at 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of the Northern Territory as at 30 June 1 977. 
-The Opposition does not oppose any of the 3 Bills, but I wish to make some comments about them. With regard to the Customs Amendment Bill, the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has pointed out that this Bill will introduce flexibility in relation to the one-half rule as it operates in the free trade area established by this Government and the Government of Papua New Guinea in the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations. The Opposition follows the logic of that and offers no objection to it. The other amendment in the Bill deals with the definition of 'cannabis'. The Minister made the point that the present definition of cannabis plant' is not as wide as it ought to be and that as there have been some problems in the courts in prosecutions relating to this matter the definition should be amended accordingly. In mentioning the prosecutions in relation to cannabis, I query the high number of prosecutions in Australia at the moment relating to that drug and the much increased degree of trafficking in harder drugs which is taking place in some States, one might believe with the connivance of the authorities, with cannabis smokers being the victims of some degree of persecution compared with drug addicts. 
The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill was dealt with by the Minister in the explanatory notes. Basically it deals with fruit juices and is to be commended to the Senate. The Narcotic Drugs Amendment Bill transfers responsibility for the policing of the manufacture and distribution of narcotic drugs from the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to the Department of Health. It seems a logical transfer, having regard to the fact that the Narcotics Bureau will continue under the present administration and will be responsible for carrying out our obligations under international treaties, and so on. For those reasons the Opposition does not oppose any of these Bills. 
-These 3 Bills relating to the stevedoring industry are not opposed by the Opposition. In fact, we have maintained a consistent attitude to these 3 Bills and their predecessors. This legislation sort of amounts to the  Blue Hills  of the stevedoring industry in that again an extension of time for the operation of the temporary provisions currently regulating the stevedoring industry has been sought. That is the first major purpose of the Bills. The second purpose is to remove the long service leave provisions from the Stevedoring Industry Act so that waterside workers can be covered for long service leave entitlement by an award of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We understand that all sections of the industry approve of that proposition and we do not oppose it. We agree with it. 
There has been seen to be a need to extend the temporary legislation in relation to the stevedoring industry, although this legislation has in fact been in operation since 1967, and that need is again apparent because of the Government's failure to determine the new permanent arrangements under which the industry is to be operative. An extension was sought in May of this year for the period of 6 months or so until 31 December of this year. An extension is again sought by this legislation. The problems which the Government has to face up to are problems of surplus labour on the waterfront. Some $20m a year is paid in respect of idle time. That is, however, not a very accurate figure when one considers that if the surplus labour problem were solved there would still be a large amount of money paid in respect of idle time. But the problem of surplus labour, which has arisen from the heavy recruitment of waterside workers in the busy import-export days of 1974, is still very much with the industry. The Waterside Workers Federation, of course, is reluctant to accept any form of compulsory retirement in the industry and seeks conditions which are satisfactory enough to encourage employees between the ages of 60 years and 65 years to retire on a voluntary basis. These matters have to be negotiated, and negotiations are taking place. For our part, we wish the Government and the parties involved well. We wish them success. 
There is another more important area to be negotiated. It simply relates to this problem: If the Government opts out of the regulatory role which it has assumed in the stevedoring industry since at least 1967 under these provisions, the question arises for this Government in particularit would arise for any government- as to how long it will maintain an influence on costs and efficiency in an industry which is entirely self-regulatory. That is the difficult proposition which the Government has to face up to. We are told that it is the Government's view that it can be done through the mechanism of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. That is an extraordinary proposition, coming from a Government which today has before the Senate legislation which takes the teeth out of the Prices Justification Tribunal in respect of some of its major functions. It is an extraordinary proposition coming from a Government which appointed a committee to look into the trade practices legislation which has recommended changes to the legislation which in fact would weaken it. At the same time as these 2 propositions are being brought forward by the Government, the Government is considering a position of self-regulation in one of the most volatile industries that this country has ever known- in fact, one of the most volatile industries in any economy developed to the level of sophistication of the Australian economy. 
Let me make the point in another way. I simply refer to the James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd inquiry which was conducted recently. I shall point to some of the very succinct figures which emerged from that inquiry. This is a stevedoring company with a long history of operation in Australia. It operates in 8 major ports on the eastern seaboard. In 1974-75 it produced an operating profit of 580 per cent on capital. That extraordinary situation received a great deal of publicity in the newspapers. Five directors in that period shared approximately $560,000 in directors' fees. An even more extraordinary situation was that most of the sum of $560,000 went to the  chairman  of the company,  Sir Reginald  Reed. These are the sorts of bandits with which the Government is dealing when it talks about abandoning its regulatory role in the stevedoring industry. Does it really feel that the mechanism of the Prices Justification Tribunal or the Trade Practices Commission, as they are intended to be amended by this Government, will catch fish of that type? I was going to use the word 'size', but I really meant 'deviousness'. I looked at  Senator Wright  in vain for him to supply me with a word. 
I assure  Senator Missen  that my remark was meant to be complimentary to  Senator Wright.  The difficult proposition which the Government has to face up to in relation to this legislation is the mirror image of the whole economic mess in which it now finds itself after 12 months in government. It is a mirror image in the sense that a decision has been made that the stevedoring industry should be selfregulatory, that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority should go and that the industry should seek a solution to its own problems subject only to the influence of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. In this sort of bizarre situation a government is talking about wage freezes in this and in every other industry accompanied by company rip-offs and director rip-offs of the kind demonstrated by the directors of James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd. In effect, this is an emasculation of the legislation which might assist in that sort of situation. I think the Government is confronted with grave difficulties in this sort of abdication of responsibility in this area. We do not oppose the course which is being taken but we point to some of the hard realities which have to be dealt with when the Government seeks to negotiate this question with the industry. Again we say that we wish it success and hope that in the public interest it will not shrink from its responsibilities as it seems to be doing by the conglomerate of legislation as it affects the stevedoring industry which is now coming before the Senate. 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill. The reasons why the Opposition opposes it are to be found in a sense in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  and the gross inadequacies of that speech. I will turn to that in a moment. But before doing so I wish to make some general comments about the Prices Justification Tribunal. I harken back to the days when it was established by the previous Government. When the Tribunal was established it was never pretended that it was to be anything more than a body which would have a persuasive influence on prices fixing in Australia and which was part of a consensus that the Government of the day was then seeking in relation to wages and prices. All those problems which have been familiar to any government in this country stem from the absence of power of the Federal Parliament to deal with wages and prices. 
Those who remember the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal will remember that the criteria according to which it was to operate were quite deliberately vague because, as I have said, it was designed to exercise a persuasive authority, which was all it could in fact exercise, to be part of the consensus regarding wages and prices and an influence in trying to establish within the community that the price of both labour and goods had to be restrained in the economic climate of the time. A number of tributes have been paid to the work of the Prices Justification Tribunal- the most notable one being in the  Federal Law Review  of June last year, which referred to the very real effect which the PJT had had on prices in this country. Another was paid by perhaps a less reliable authority, that is, the Prices Justification Tribunal in its own report in which it estimated that many millions of dollars have been saved by the activities of the Tribunal. 
The legislation now before the Senate has been introduced at a point in time at which the Government is devoted to a very large scale attack on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, following the last indexation increase. It will be recalled that only 10 days ago the Arbitration Commission was blamed for that indexation increase and it was suggested that that had something to do with the Government's decision regarding devaluation. The Opposition makes the essential point which it wants to make about this legislation by asking members of the Senate to think back to the halcyon days of November last year. I use the expression 'halcyon days' in relation to the sort of balance which had developed between wage indexation in the Arbitration Commission and the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal and, to a lesser extent, the Trade Practices Commission. What was being sought in October and November of 1975 was an understanding that the real value of wages would be protected, accompanied by the understanding that price increases would be subject to the continued surveillance of the Prices Justification Tribunal and that that Tribunal would have the same sort of effect in the future as its activities seemed to have following its establishment some 2 years before. 
Since the beginning of this year we have seen an extraordinary turnabout in this Government's attitude to those elements of the sort of consensus which the previous Government was seeking in this community. In fact, we have seen an extraordinary abandonment altogether of the notion of consensus politics. For example, in the election campaign of November and December of last year the Prime Minister of the caretaker Government promised that wage indexation would be preserved. In the first national wage case in 1976 the Government abandoned that electoral promise. In the election campaign of November and December of last year the then Prime Minister promised his friends in the business community that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be abolished. When he abandoned his promise on wage indexation early this year he then saw, and the Government saw, that they had to abandon their promise in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal. So, instead of abolishing the Prices Justification Tribunal, it was indicated that steps would be taken to alter the criteria under which the Tribunal operated, and a statement was made to that effect. This legislation, of course, is a consequence of that statement. 
What is appalling about this is the adhockery of it all and the fact that it has been done to justify broken promises in relation to the election campaign of last year and that it has been done in an economic situation which has totally changed, particularly as a result of the devaluation of a week or so ago. The situation in which the Government now finds itself following the devaluation is one in which it is faced with such consequences of the devaluation as a  22Vi  per cent rise-not a 17V4 per cent rise-in the price of electrical goods, which has taken place already. Consequences of that sort are going to be passed on to the Australian consumer in terms of price rises at the same time as the Government is seeking to reduce real wages by its submissions to the Arbitration Commission and as a matter of stated policy. As I have said, these matters have destroyed the sort of consensus which was being worked for and they have destroyed it in a totally different and worse economic environment from the one which prevailed at the beginning of this year. As part of the Government's overall economic policy, we regard them as disastrous. 
There are one or two matters in the Minister's second reading speech to which I wish to refer, apart from commenting in a general way upon the undesirability of this legislation in the context of the Australian economic situation in December 1976. The first remark that the Minister has made on which I wish to comment appears at the beginning of his second reading speech. He said: 
The changes contained in this Bill reflect the decision of the Government to retain the Prices Justification Tribunal but in a substantially modified form. 
I point out that this legislation is just a shabby compromise based on the dishonouring of 2 promises made by the Government in its election policy statement of last year. 
The second point I make regarding the Minister's speech is perhaps a minor one. He referred to the need for companies to service the requirements of the Tribunal and said that this has been a very significant cost to business generally. I hope that at a later stage the Minister will give some evidence for that statement, other than the gripes from business about the inconvenience of the Prices Justification Tribunal as distinct from what he refers to as the cost of servicing the requirements of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Everybody is aware that for many businesses the Prices Justification Tribunal is inconvenient. Of course it is inconvenient. But it is inconvenient in the public interest. The interest of business, as stated and as a matter which may be regarded as speaking for itself, is of course contrary to the public interest in that it is the achievement of the highest level of profitability which can be obtained. I ask the Minister to point to some evidence for his statement other than the inconvenience, which of course may be an inconvenience to business but which on the proven record of the PJT has been a matter of convenience to the average Australian consumer. 
Apart from those general comments indicating the Opposition's attitude to the Bill, any comments which members of the Opposition may wish to make can be made at the Committee stage. We oppose the Bill most strongly. We think it is just a delayed piece of mish-mash to try to cover up some of the failed promises to which I referred. 
asked the Mininster for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Veterans' Affairs as at 30 June 1977. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the joint statement by the Minister for Immigration and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications some 3 months ago about the future of ethnic radio in Australia and subsequent questions which I have directed to  Senator Carrick  and the answers thereto. I now ask the Minister Has the Government yet determined the future of ethnic radio and what structure will apply to the administration of ethnic radio in Australia? Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission continued to decline to take responsibility for ethnic radio? Did the Minister for Post and Telecommunications say in Sydney 3 weeks ago that, if the ABC continued to decline to assume responsibility for it, he would establish an ethnic radio commission? What is the present position? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the AttorneyGeneral 's Department as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the projected staff ceiling for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs as at 30 June 1 977. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that a widow who receives a dependant allowance in respect of a school-age child loses that dependant allowance the moment the child leaves school? In current circumstances is the Minister prepared to have the position examined to see whether that is the case. My reason for asking the question is that a child now completing examinations at school has to be supported by a widow because he or she is ineligible to receive the unemployment benefit and is perhaps incapable of getting a job, anyway, until the examination results are known. That creates a situation of considerable hardship. I ask the Minister whether that is a fact and whether she will have the matter examined urgently. 
-The Senate is debating cognately 3 Bills, two of which are more or less of a consequential nature. The other one, the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976, is of fundamental importance to the broadcasting system in Australia. On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of that Bill: 
At end of motion, add  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted because- 
there has been inadequate time for proper public consideration of the Government's proposals in relation to broadcasting; 
it fails to establish a proper basis for public broadcasting in Australia; and 
it is inconsistent with the principles enunciated for the structure of broadcasting in Australia by the report of the Postal and Telecommunications Department on Australian Broadcasting'. 
I move this amendment because in its terminology it draws attention to the concern of the Opposition, and indeed the concern of many members of the public, about the haste with which this legislation has been introduced. In our view the legislation was conceived in haste and has been born defective. In the time available to me I want to explain why we express that view. 
I say that it has been conceived in haste because the original prime purpose of the legislation was to dispose of the existing Australian Broadcasting Control Board and to dispose of the existing Australian Broadcasting Commission, and to do so before 1 January 1977. There is no other explanation of the way in which this legislation was produced and the speed with which it was brought before the Parliament. The first draft of the amendment which I have moved contained specific reference to the position of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the fact that this legislation compromised the integrity and independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That paragraph has now been deleted. It has been deleted because the amendments made by the Government in the House of Representatives removed some of the worst features of the attack on the Australian Broadcasting Commission which this Bill represented. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate members of the Government Parties, particularly the senators, who screwed their courage to the sticking place and brought about the changes in this Bill which the Government introduced in the House of Representatives and the changes in the Government's attitude. I am sorry that members of the Government Parties had to behave in this revolting manner in order to draw the attention of certain Ministers in this Government to the fact that a significant section of the Liberal Party, in spite of things which have gone on in the past year or so, does perhaps understand the nature of a pluralist society, does perhaps understand that Australia is such a pluralist society whether they like it or not, and does perhaps understand the role of a national broadcasting service in a society of that kind. 
That action of Government back benchers produced the most extraordinary comment from the responsible Minister, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  He made the comment afterwards that there was really no revolt; that it was just an expression of opinion from Government back benchers who are more in touch with the public than is the Government. That is an extraordinary comment for a Minister to make after 12 months in office. But I am pleased that back benchers are more in touch than Ministers in the Government and that they took the action they did. I say that that is very important because I regard it as important that this country should be governed by a Prime Minister and a government which understands the nature of a democratic pluralist society. It is quite clear that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and some of his Ministers just do not understand that and that they do not want a society in which there is free and critical discussion of public events and particularly of the policies of the Government of the day. What happened in the ranks of the Government was that for a moment there was a retreat from polarisation of politics in this country in the stand that back benchers made. I congratulate them on what they did. 
To illustrate the proposition which I have just put- that Government Ministers and the Prime Minister do not understand the nature of a pluralist society- let me go back to 10 March this year when the Prime Minister, in a remark which I suppose was meant to be smart, said: 'The media will have to become the  de facto  Opposition in Australia'. That was a joke- if one may call it a joke- at our expense. But one is entitled to ask what he really meant. There are plenty of examples of the fact that the media perhaps are not a very good Opposition,  de facto  or otherwise, in this country. One example appeared in Alan Reid's recent book, where it was recorded that  Sir Robert  Southey, a former Federal  President  of the Liberal Party, wrote to the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  in 1972, referring to the Melbourne  Age,  and said: 
. all I am really sure of is that whoever the real enemy is in the  Age,  and I think it is probably Perkin, he must be brought into line or circumvented. 
I am much less concerned about the  Herald  and the  Sun,  for the  Herald is  reasonably trustworthy - 
He can say that again-  whilst Oakes of the  Sun  is less damaging than Barnes. I know that Henry Bolte has very strong links with the  Herald,  and I wonder whether you have spoken to Henry about this, or whether I ought to do so myself. In straightening out the Press, it is much more important that this should be done thoroughly, than that it should be done in a hurry. 
That is really a classic revelation of the old boy network as it works in the media. That is an example of the situation, as I understand it, in relation to the Press. So, when the Prime Minister talked about the media being the  de facto  Opposition in Australia, he obviously was not talking about the Melbourne  Herald.  From events which have taken place this year, it might be said that it was not his intention to be talking about the Australian Broadcasting Commission either, because the original intentions of this Bill were certainly to make sure that it would not be the Australian Broadcasting Commission that was in any sense the  de facto  Opposition in Australia. Let us look at the situation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the light of what has happened this year and since this Government came to power. We had repeated assurances from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that there was no intention to interfere in any way with the integrity and independence of the ABC. One suspects that they might have spoken with forked tongues. That is a horrible thing to say about a responsible Prime Minister or a responsible Minister of the Government. But the words were very different from the actions. 
I want to refer to some of the actions taken in the course of this year in relation to the integrity and independence of the ABC. In January of this year the Australian Broadcasting Commission made a request for supplementary budget assistance from the Government. It was refused. In May there was a $1.7m wage increase which the ABC was forced to incur as a result of the national wage case. It asked the Government for supplementary assistance for that, and it was refused. In May, the ABC budget was reduced in real terms by $4m- 'cut to the bone', in the words of the  Chairman, Sir Henry  Bland. In August, national wage increases cost the ABC another $1.2m. The Government refused to pay those increases to the ABC- the only statutory authority of the Federal Government which did not receive that payment. Only last week  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in the Senate, in answer to a question from  Senator Chaney  about this matter, said that his understanding was that that money had been paid to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That is a misunderstanding, as I pointed out to the Minister at the time, and it is one of the tragedies of the Government's attitude to the Australian Broadcasting Commission that even the Minister who in this place represents the Minister responsible for the Commission does not know the situation of Australian Broadcasting Commission funding. Even now we are waiting for  Sir Henry  Bland to make the much vaunted approach to the Government for additional funds for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Questions have been asked about it in this place. It is like waiting for  Godot. 
We are told frequently that the Minister and the Government respect the integrity and independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and are not concerned to interfere with Australian Broadcasting Commission programs in any way. Of course, the easiest way to interfere with Australian Broadcasting Commission programs, and the effects have been dramatic, is by cutting off the funds of the ABC, and that has happened throughout the year. There have been other examples of interference. For example, on 19 August 1976 a letter was sent to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications from the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, which said: 
My dear Minister, 
I would be grateful for your comments on an attached transcript of a TDT program in Melbourne which was passed to me by Peter Nixon. 
Yours sincerely, Malcolm Fraser 
That was on 19 August this year and the  This Day Tonight  program transcript was attached to the letter. It was a transcript of the program which was monitored presumably by Australian Reference Services Pty Ltd on whose letterhead the transcript is typed. That would seem to me to be a legitimate cause for asking what is the business of the Prime Minister in sending letters to his Minister about the contents of programs on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. What action did he expect his Minister to take if he believes that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is an independent body? 
Yes. He can ask questions and he can answer them. The Prime Minister's attitude, and I am sure that  Senator Walters  will appreciate this, is further illustrated when at the beginning of this month in a pathetic defence of his own position in relation to the ABC the Prime Minister accused the Commission of cutting drama and public affairs programs instead of making cuts elsewhere. That even stirred  Sir Henry  Bland into making a spirited riposte to the Prime Minister and that occurred and was reported in the Press early last week. 
I am trying to make a few significant points,  Senator. 
-I do not really want to be bothered with  Senator Walters  for the moment and if she would be good enough to listen to the Prime Minister's reply to  Sir Henry  Bland perhaps she will understand what I am talking about. In what must be regarded as a monumental statement for a Prime Minister to make, he said: 
I very much welcome the statement by the  Chairman  of the ABC,  Sir Henry  Bland. I am glad that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has now made it plain that the ABC is master of its own programming, and that the Government does not, and cannot, direct the ABC in relation to its programming content. 
The Prime Minister said that after receiving advice from  Sir Henry  Bland to keep his nose out of the ABC's business. He came out and said that he was glad the  Chairman  of the ABC had now made it clear what his function as Prime Minister is- to keep his nose out of the business of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That is precisely what the Prime Minister was saying in that statement. 
-Senator Young can tell me about the logic later. It will be fascinating. This sort of situation has gone on throughout this year. The highlight of this saga of discontent which has possessed the ABC throughout this year was one other matter to which I have constantly referred in this place; that is the total misconception which the  Chairman  of the Aus.tralian Broadcasting Commission has of his role as  chairman.  There can be no more clear example of the misconception of his role than what happened last week in relation to this precise matter. I refer to some of the things which the  Chairman  said last week and which were reported in the Press this week in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, Firstly in Launceston, referring to Radio Australia, he said that it should not be able to broadcast material which contradicted Government policy. He continued: 
If the Government has a policy- a foreign policy-of course Radio Australia cannot put out programs in direct opposition to it. 
He could not care less personally if the Australian Broadcasting Commission had no current affairs programs. That position of the  Chairman  was properly repudiated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in the House of Representatives last week and by  Senator Carrick  this morning in answer to a question from  Senator Davidson.  That is the public view of the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which has to be repudiated by Government Ministers. Secondly, the  Chairman  said in a statement which is bordering on the psychopathic: 
I don't want to start a discussion on this but I suppose the Philistines would probably prefer current affairs to orchestras. On the other hand as one who has had to listen to many people for so often I couldn't care less if there were no current affairs programs. 
This is the second comment which the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has made publicly which represents a total misconception of his function as  Chairman  and representative of that body. Thirdly, he said that the general view was that  State of the Nation  was a bad program. How he would assess the general view I would have the greatest difficulty in saying and I am sure that he would too. Then he went on to talk about  Alvin Purple  which seems to have stirred him up a bit over the last few months. He now says, after trying to sell it to commercial television 2 months ago: 
It ought to be burnt. Anyone engaged in marketing, which is, after all, what we are in a certain way, could never afford to market a program that 30 per cent of the people did not want. 
Good God! He ought to ask some of the commercial competitors of the Australian Broadcasting Commission if that is to be a criterion for marketing. The point about all these matters is that they illustrate the attitude of the  Chairman  and a tragedy for the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian broadcasting scene generally. I have raised them simply to make it clear that I do not blame  Sir Henry  Bland for that because, as I have said before, when he was appointed he said: 
I did not think I was cut out for this job but the Prime Minister of Australia insisted that I take it. 
Where there is any criticism of  Sir Henry  Bland and his role as  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, let it be made clear that the buck stops on Malcolm Fraser 's desk. The Government will have to bear  Sir Henry  Bland for 3 years and every time there is some embarrassment about him let it be remembered that the buck stops on Malcolm Fraser 's desk. 
There are one or two other matters to which I wanted to refer but I conclude my remarks in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission by saying that there is a lack of understanding among certain Ministers as to what it is all about and there is a lack of understanding by the  Chairman  as to what it is all about. It is no good  Senator Carrick  getting up in the Senate time after time and telling me that Albert Monk thought  Sir Henry  Bland was a great man. I do not care whether Albert Monk thought  Sir Henry  Bland was a Christmas pudding. It does not matter to me and it does not affect my view of whether he is a proper and responsible person to be  Chairman  of a great national broadcasting service. 
So much for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have mentioned these matters because it is in pursuit of this ideological obscurantist goal that this legislation has been introduced. This legislation is a mishmash of policy which is designed to cover up its basic intention, now abandoned, to restructure the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We on the Opposition side do not dissent for a moment from the concept of a new structure for broadcasting in Australia. The Opposition criticises the haste of the Green inquiry. After all, an equivalent inquiry conducted in Great Britain by Lord Annan is going to take 2 years, with a much less complex broadcasting structure. The Department here was expected to do it in 2 months, and it has not done a bad job. But the Government has failed conceptually where it has departed from the basic structure which the Green inquiry recommended. Not only has there been haste in implementation, but there has been a failure to make the Green report available to people.  Senator Withers  has failed in this Senate to answer a question which he has now been asked twice about how many copies of the Green report were available for concerned members of the public to read. That sort of thing suggests haste and a very powerful motivation to get the whole matter cleared up by 1 January, to get rid of the Broadcasting Control Board, and the Australian Broadcasting Commission as it was. 
There are certain clear defects in the structure set up by this legislation. For example, the Broadcasting Control Board is abolished. That Board had 2 very basic functions, apart from its technical function. Those functions were, first of all, the quasi-judicial one of granting the renewing licences. That function will now be vested in the new Tribunal- a sensible proposition, we believe. The other function which the Broadcasting Control Board had and which it recommended to the Green inquiry that it should not have in conjunction with its quasi-judicial jurisdiction was the administration of the standards which are laid down. No proper body has been set up by this legislation to administer the standards which the new Tribunal may set as a result of inquiries it conducts. If one looks at the relevant clauses, a totally unbalanced mishmash is emerging. 
-I will allow my colleagues to debate that question. 
-I thank  Senator Young  for his interjection and his patronage. I am quite aware of what the Broadcasting Council is about, and perhaps we can debate that later in the Committee stage. This legislation does not establish it; that is the point I am making. It is a defect in the structure recommended by the Green report. 
In concluding my remarks on the second reading of this Bill, let me say that the Opposition is not opposed to a new structure for broadcasting in Australia, but we think it is being done with indecent haste. The Government has fallen over itself to achieve a result, which it has now abandoned. What is left of the legislation is a mess, and it is a discredit to the Australian people and to broadcasting, which is a great and important institution in this country. Its importance cannot be over-emphasised. We in this Parliament should be searching for a system which provides quality, diversity, vitality, and a representative structure for an industry which is of vital importance to the country. In the Committee stage of this Bill the Opposition will be moving amendments which it thinks will bring about a better result in achieving the sorts of objectives for which, in all honesty, I believe all members of the Senate should wish. I commend to the Senate the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
I make just one comment on what  Senator James  McClelland said about this hiatus period. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his reply to comment on the fact- I put it to him that it is a fact-that in the past 3 months average advertising time per hour on commercial television has gone up from 9 minutes to 13 minutes when the standard set by the Broadcasting Control Board is a maximum of 1 1 minutes per hour. That is the sort of thing which I believe  Senator 
James McClelland had in mind and which will occur in this hiatus period if this amendment is not passed and if there is not some authority to deal with these issues until the inquiry make the recommendations to which the Minister has referred. 
I propose an amendment to insert a new clause 2a relating to the expiration of the Bill on 30 June 1977.I move: 
After clause 2, insert the following new clause: "2a. Section 2 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: "(2) This Act shall cease to be in operation on the expiration of 30 June 1977, and shall thereupon be deemed to have been repealed by an Act other than this Act. ' '. 
-As I recall it, the amendment to clause 3 now falls with the defeat of the last amendment. I abandon that amendment, if that is the appropriate expression. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bills reported without amendment or request; report adopted. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It has been brought into this place in great haste on 2 occasions and it will be dealt with in great haste here today. The honourable Lionel Bowen made an excellent speech about it in the House of Representatives and I commend it to honourable senators to read during the Christmas holidays. 
-The Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills. I think that I can almost say that we agree with most of the reasons for these Bills as stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Senator Durack). 
-I move: 
After proposed sub-section 10 (4), insert the following new sub-section: (4a) A person who immediately before the commencing day held office as a full-time or part-time member of the Board for a term expiring after that day shall be appointed as a member of the Tribunal and shall hold office for a term equivalent to the remainder of the term to which he would have been entitled but for the provisions of this Act. ' 
In effect and in summary, proposed new subclause (4a) provides that members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is to be abolished by this legislation, who have unexpired terms as statutory officers should be appointed for the balance of these unexpired terms to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal which will be established by this legislation. The functions of the Broadcasting Control Board, which will be abolished as at 1 January 1977, apart from its technical functions, are in essence twofold. There is the quasi-judicial function of dealing with licence applications, licence renewals, the granting of licences, and so on; and there is the administrative function of administering the standards insofar as standards are prescribed by the Broadcasting and Television Act. The Government, by its amendment made to this legislation in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, has seen fit to say: The position of statutory office holders on the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be protected. They should not be axed. ' I use that expression in a political context, totally unfamiliar to us all! Office holders should be allowed to complete the unexpired portion of their terms as members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It has probably been a less flamboyant political issue, but the same thing intended by the original legislation in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission is being done by this Bill to the office holders of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I thought the matter was well expressed by the honourable member for Casey,  Mr Peter  Falconer. Speaking in the House of Representatives he is reported at page 3399 of the House of Representatives  Hansard oil  December to have stated: 
My objection to the legislation in its initial form was that it seemed that it required some people to be removed from the present Commission- 
He is speaking about the Australian Broadcasting Commission - 
I believe that people ought to be allowed to serve out their existing terms. 
If that proposition is right in respect of one statutory body it should, in our view, be right in respect of another statutory body, namely, the Broadcasting Control Board. In fact, there are 3 members of the Broadcasting Control Board who would, in the normal course of events, continue to hold office after 1 January 1977. The full time member is  Dr Geoffrey  Evans, who was appointed on 1 November 1975 by the Australian Labor Party Government. Page 3 of the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ending 30 June 1976 makes reference to members of the Board. It states: 
  Dr Evans  was formerly Ministerial Adviser to  Dr Moss  Cass, the Minister for the Media. He holds degrees of Master of Agricultural Science, Sydney University (1961) and Doctor of Philosophy, Cornell University (1965). From 1967-71 he was a Research Scientist with CSIRO and from 1972-74 was Secretary to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. 
It was during that period that the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, produced one of the Senate's most monumental reports on an inquiry into broadcasting. The Committee lasted for some 2 years.  Senator Carrick  and  Senator James  McClelland served on that Committee. There may be other honourable senators present who also served on it.  Dr Evans  was secretary to the Committee. He has a long period of expertise in broadcasting. The other 2 members of the Broadcasting Control Board who would be affected are:  Dr Patricia  Edgar of La Trobe University, who has published a number of reports relating to children's television standards in this country, and  Mr E.  A. Kellam who was appointed this year by the Liberal Government and who was formerly managing director of Dunlop Australia Ltd. He has also made a significant contribution to the work of the Broadcasting Control Board. 
So of the 3 persons concerned, only one is a full time member and that is  Dr Evans.  Only one member would be eligible for a full time appointment on the proposed tribunal, and that would be  Dr Evans.  Presumably, the other two would be eligible in the category of associate member of the tribunal. I put to the Senate very seriously that if the principle holds good in relation to one statutory body it should hold good in relation to another. That principle was stated by  Mr Falconer  in the House of Representatives. I believe it is shared by most members of the Parliament. It is for that reason that I have moved the amendment. 
I move: 
After paragraph (c) of proposed sub-section 16(1), insert the following new paragraph: 
to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations in the best interests of the general public,'. 
The Opposition's position on this is quite clear.  Senator Carrick,  in his reply to the second reading debate today, stressed time and again that the Australian Broadcasting Commission was required by the terms of the Broadcasting and Television Act to provide adequate and comprehensive programs. Until this Bill is passed the commercial sector of the industry is also required under section 16 of the existing Act to provide adequate and comprehensive programs in exactly the same way as the ABC. The effect of this clause is to repeal the requirement that commercial television stations provide adequate and comprehensive programs and to leave the ABC with that statutory instruction to provide adequate and comprehensive programs. 
I think there is a general concern about the standards of television programs.  Senator Carrick  addressed himself to this question this morning. We feel, for a number of reasons, that section 16 should remain in the Act as it always has. I illustrate my point in this way. In the Green report on broadcasting and television there is a reference in paragraphs 75 and 76 at page 26 to a discussion by the Vincent Committee in 1962 about the expression 'adequate and comprehensive programs'. The Green committee went on in paragraph 76, after dealing with the interpretation of those words, to discuss them in the context of the commercial sector of broadcasting. It said: 
. that this inquiry would endorse the spirit of the above interpretation, but in the following paragraphs will canvass those individual aims which it considers appropriate to each sector of broadcasting. 
The fact of the matter is that they were accepted as appropriate criteria for the commercial sector as well as the ABC. The Government is displaying inconsistency in removing this stipulation in relation to the commercial sector but leaving it there for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
It is often said on behalf of the commercial sector that it gives the public what they want. I refer the Senate again to the comment of the Pilkington Committee in Great Britain on this very question. It is quoted in the Green report at page 33 and it says: 
No one can say he is giving the public what he wants unless the public knows the whole range of possibilities which television can offer and from this range chooses what it wants to see. What the public wants and what it has a right to get is the freedom to choose from the widest possible range of program matter. Anything less than this is deprivation. 
The section which this Bill removes is the only stipulation in the Broadcasting and Television Act which does something towards preventing what the Pilkington inquiry called deprivation in terms of television comprehensiveness and adequateness, to use the words of the section. 
There is one other thing I want to say. I refer the Senate to the report of the Broadcasting Control Board which was referred to in yesterday's Press. I read from the report in the  Age  which refers to self-regulation being a subject for a public inquiry next year by the proposed Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The article says: 
The survey found that 39 per cent of those favouring control of television believed it should be done by a Government body. 
An independent representative body was favoured by 27 percent. 
Fewer than one in four believed control of TV content should be left to television stations. 
Only a small minority believed there should be no control at all. 
The report then goes on to deal with the poll which was conducted and says: 
The response favouring controls on what was shown was 75 per cent. The opposition was 22 per cent. The remaining 3 per cent did not know. 
They are the sort of people who listen to test pattern music. The article continues: 
The response favouring control of time of programs was 83 per cent. The opposition was 14 per cent. 
The figures go on in that vein. I do not need to go into them in further detail but I refer honourable senators to the report. So the Opposition has moved its amendment because the Government is adopting double standards on this issue by not retaining the present prescription in the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
I move: 
At end of proposed sub-section 22a  (  1 ), add ' , which shall be published and tabled in the Parliament'. 
The amendment, I believe, is self-explanatory. Why should that stipulation not be included if we believe in open public discussion of what the Broadcasting Tribunal is doing? The Opposition takes the view very strongly that this is a matter, as  Senator Carrick  said only a few minutes ago, about which the public is concerned and about which there should be public discussion. The Opposition believes that the reports of the Tribunal should be published so that the public can take a continuing interest in the structure of broadcasting in this country and in reports which are made by the Tribunal. I will be interested to hear the Minister's reason for opposing the amendment if, as he has often professed, he believes in openness of government. Maybe there is some sort of ritualistic Party decision which binds the Minister. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
I move: 
At end of paragraph (b) of proposed sub-section 31(1), add ', of whom one shall be the elected representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff'. 
Leave out proposed sub-section 31 (2). 
With your permission,  Mr Chairman,  it might be possible to deal with the 2 amendments to clause 9 together. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is it the wish of the Committee to deal with the 2 clauses together? There being no objection it is so ordered. 
The first amendment relates to a staff elected representative on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This was a matter of quite lengthy debate in the House of Representatives and I do not want to go into the matter in great detail, except to make one point which I feel was not made in the other place when there was this tedious discussion of what worker participation means, and so on. The point about the Australian Broadcasting Commission or a body such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission is that they are not factories. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is a creative body; it has creative tasks. I believe there is a difference between the sort of discussion on worker participation which took place in the House of Representatives and a body like the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I understand that the Government will oppose these amendments. In all sincerity, I say that I believe that reasonably cogent arguments were advanced on this general question in the House of Representatives. Our position, however, is that the ABC has a staff elected commissioner. It should continue to do so. It was the wish of the staff association that that election take place. I believe it has led to a degree of openness within the affairs of the ABC. As to the question of the women representatives on the Commission we find that a quite extraordinary and Neanderthal sort of provision. I believe that one of my colleagues may have something to say about that aspect. 
-The Opposition will move 3 amendments to clause 14. They all relate to public broadcasting and are designed, in effect, to do 2 things. The first is to make the Broadcasting Tribunal the responsible body for issuing licences to public radio and television broadcasting stations. As the Bill now reads, the Minister is the responsible person to grant licences. The Government has talked a lot about keeping politics out of broadcasting. I thought that the Tribunal was part of that exercise. We are concerned that it should be the Tribunal which should grant these licences. Consistent with that we are concerned that public broadcasting licences should be granted on the same basis as all other licences; that is, subject to public inquiry and so on by the Tribunal. Basically the amendments are to achieve that purpose. 
The other purpose of the amendments is to ensure that broadcasting licences for the public sector should not have these limiting conditions placed on them by the legislation. That seems to us to represent a misconception of the nature of public broadcasting. Public broadcasting cannot be defined by the sort of criteria which the Bill puts on it. For example, the needs of the community which is served by an access radio station change from time to time. The needs cannot be spelt out in the terms of a licence or as conditions for the granting of a licence. For example this provision of the Bill is ridiculously inhibiting if a licence of a particular kind is granted and the needs of the community change. Accordingly I move: 
Leave out proposed sub-section 1 1 1  a  ( 1 ), insert the following proposed sub-section: 
1 ) Subject to this Act, the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Tribunal and upon payment of the prescribed fee, grant a person a licence to operate a broadcasting station or television station. '. 
At end of proposed sub-section 1 1 1a (3), add 'in accordance with the recommendations of the Tribunal '. 
Leave out proposed sub-section 1 1 1a (4). 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 
After section 134 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 135. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a Council, to be known as the Broadcasting Council, which, subject to this Act, shall have and may exercise the rights, powers, authorities and functions conferred upon it by this Act and shall be charged with and perform the duties and obligations imposed upon it by this Act. 
The Council shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property and shall be capable of suing and being sued in its corporate name. 
All courts, judges and persons acting judicially shall take judicial notice of the seal of the Council affixed to any document and shall presume that it was duly affixed. 
The exercise of the rights, powers, authorities or functions, or the performance of the duties or obligations, of the Council shall not be affected by reason only of there being a vacancy in the office of a member.  136. ( 1 ) The Broadcasting Council shall consist of eleven members, who shall be appointed by the Governor-General, comprising: 
a Chairman; 
b) one representative of commercial radio; 
one representative of commercial television; 
two representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission; 
two representatives of the public broadcasting sector; 
one representative of the Australia Council; 
one representative of the Australian Film and Television School; 
one representative of the Postal and Telecommunications Department, and 
i) one representative from the Schools Commission. 
All members of the Council shall be appointed as part-time members, except the  Chairman,  who shall be appointed as a full-time member. 137. The Council shall be empowered to: 
suggest and consider planning proposals for the introduction, extension or development of broadcasting services; 
overview the administration of standards as defined in codes of broadcasting practice set out by the industry; 
receive and respond to complaints on the administration of standards; 
liaise with the broadcasting industry, the public and other interested parties, and 
assemble industry data relevant to its functions. 138. Terms and conditions of members of the Council shall be as prescribed.'.". 
The Opposition's dissatisfaction with this provision in the Bill is simply that it allows the Minister to establish a Broadcasting Council by regulation. There is no guarantee, except for some talk, that the Broadcasting Council will be established. In abolishing the Australian Broadcasting Control Board the Government is destroying a body which exercised a number of functions. Part of its functions will be taken over by the Broadcasting Tribunal and part of its functions- the technical functions- will be taken over by the Department of Post and Telecommunications. But the part of its functions which deal with administration of broadcasting standards and so on will not be transferred, and there will be a vacuum in that area. It is assumed, one gathers, that the Broadcasting Council when it is appointed by regulation under this Bill will take over that function. We do not think it is good enough to have the Broadcasting Council appointed as a sort of advisory body by regulation. In his second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said that the Council will be largely comprised of representatives of the national and commercial public sectors of broadcasting. I would like to know what the expression 'largely' means. I hope that it does mean that the Minister will accept some suggestions at least from the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
What we have sought to do, consistent with the spirit and terminology of the Green report, is to establish the Broadcasting Council as a statutory authority which would be a significant body in the administration of Australian broadcasting and which would be representative of a wide range of interests. Of course, it has got to be representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the commercial sector, the public sector and so on. The Minister has announced already on television, I understand, that it will have 4 representatives from the commercial sectorcontrary to the 3 representatives suggested in the Green report.  Senator Missen  nods his head. The Minister has said that there will be 4 representatives from the commercial sector. 
He may have changed his mind again but I heard him say that there would be 4 representatives from the commercial sector. I hope he has now changed his mind again. If that is so, well and good. There are, of course, provisions for representation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. There should be representation of the public sector. 
What we have done in the second part of this amendment is to suggest something which appears to be common ground to both Parties in all the rhetoric that has gone on about the broadcasting system; that is, to give some recognition of what might be regarded as the public interest. After all, we talk about public airways, a great public service in terms of the ABC, a lesser public service in terms of the commercial sector, and public radio. Here is a proposed Broadcasting Council with no representation of the listeners or viewers. The fact is that we should have consumer representation if we are going to talk seriously about the importance of national broadcasting and the importance of the views of consumers.  Senator Carrick  himself used the words 'public importance' and the 'significance of the public'. These sorts of expressions have been used in this debate about a dozen times. I am not singling out the Minister. The fact of the matter is that this Council is to have no consumer representation. We thought about the question of consumer representation. It is difficult to establish representative bodies. If the Government is concerned about qualitative considerations of broadcasting the sort of representative bodies which we have suggested as possible members of the Broadcasting Council include the Australian Film and Television School which was set up by a Liberal government under  Mr Gorton,  was proceeded with under the Whitlam Government and is being proceeded with now under the Fraser Government as a great national institution with the purpose of improving standards in film and television in this country. If the Broadcasting Council is to be established there should be a representative of the Australian Film and Television School on it, because that is what it is all about. 
Similarly, we have suggested that there should be a representative of the Australia Council because we spend $22m a year trying to improve cultural standards in this community. That money is spent through the Australia Council and it should be represented on a body such as this because, hopefully, broadcasting will become one of the important cultural mediums in this country. We have suggested also representation from the Australian Schools Commission because there has been a lot of pious cant about children's television emanating from people like me. The important thing is that we recognise that a body such as the Schools Commission should be represented on the Broadcasting Council because children's television and the sort of educational standards which one would hope that the broadcasting system will inject a little more of into the Australian community would be very important considerations. 
The Opposition has moved that the Broadcasting Council should be established in the way in which I have just suggested and that it should be a representative body to provide a national, representative and a community service. If we are going to talk about self-regulation, let us have the advice on self-regulation on a continuing basis from a council which represents consumer organisations or public instrumentalities which have an important vested interest in that body. The only thing I would say about our amendments relating to the Broadcasting Council is that they do make the scheme of the broadcasting structure complete, which the Bill does not do. The powers we have suggested for it are taken holus-bolus from the Government's own inquiry, the Green inquiry into broadcasting and television. We think they are reasonable and sensible powers for a body of this kind to have. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these 3 Bills, which are being dealt with cognately. We draw attention to the fact that the rate of accumulation of long service leave as set out in the first Bill represents an improvement. Most of the matters in the Bill do represent an improvement and were supported by the previous Government. We regret that the rate of accumulation is not of the same high standard as that in 3 States, but I do not wish to refer to the details of this matter any further. The Bills were fully debated in the House of Representatives and people who are interested will be able to read the report of that debate in the House of Representatives  Hansard.  We do not oppose the Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What cuts have been made in Australian Broadcasting Commission radio education programs in the past 6 months. 
How many and what programs have been abandoned. 
What further reductions in education programs have been foreshadowed by the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Did the Attorney-General's Department on 1 April 1975 lease an office at 2 Fire Street, Shepparton, at an annual rental of $7,750 for a period of five years. 
Was the office to house a branch of the Australian Legal Aid Office and, as a result of Government policies, is it a fact that the office has never been used and remains vacant. 
3 ) Is this an example of Government economies. 
Would the Government be prepared to sub-let the premises at a lower rental to the Goulburn Valley Community Care Centre, a social organisation. 
Will the Minister consult with the Minister for Social Security regarding the possibility of a suitable arrangement being entered into with regard to these premises. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What legislation is proposed by the Government to establish the public broadcasting sector. 
If legislation is proposed, when is it intended to introduce such legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many applications for licences for public radio has the Minister received. 
What progress has been made in determining when such licences shall be issued. 
Is it the Government's intention to have all such licence applications dealt with by the proposed Broadcasting Tribunal, notwithstanding the delays which have already occurred. 
Has the Minister made any decision regarding the issue of a licence to the Melbourne University Radio Project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has a questionnaire been distributed and disseminated to various migrant groups relating to stations 3EA and 3ZZ in Melbourne. 
Was a Government Department responsible for the preparation and distribution of this questionnaire; if not, was the Australian Broadcasting Commission responsible for the preparation and distribution of this questionnaire. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government considered the future of Station 3ZZ in Melbourne and has it determined any policy in relation to the future of 3ZZ. 
Has any recommendation been made to the Australian Broadcasting Commission regarding 3ZZ. 
Has the Government recommended to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, or its Chairman, that Station 3ZZ be closed down or amalgamated with Station 3EA. 
If an amalgamation has been proposed, what steps are to be taken for the continuance of community involvement and access for a multi-lingual character in the proposed amalgamated station. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Is the Government intending to take any action concerning recommendation 93 of the Toose Inquiry into the Repatriation System, namely, that 'Section 72 of the Act Should be amended to permit legal representation before a Tribunal . . .* 
If no action is to be taken, will the Minister explain why this recommendation is not considered appropriate. 
If action is intended, how long will it be before an amendment is introduced. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government intending to take any action concerning recommendation 83 of the Toose Inquiry into the Repatriation System, namely that 'The Act should be amended to provide that the relevant personal flies should be available to a claimant, or his authorised representative, for inspection at any stage ofthe claim . . .' 
If no action is to be taken, will the Minister explain why this recommendation is not considered appropriate. 
If action is intended, how long will it be before such an amendment is introduced. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the Government's proposal to establish a so-called industrial relations bureau and I ask: Will the functions of the proposed bureau be consistent with the functions suggested for it in the Liberal Party's policy announced during the last election campaign? What is the reaction of national employer bodies to the establishment of the proposed industrial relations bureau? Where will the staff of the proposed bureau be recruited? Is there any truth in the story that Norman Gunston is to be asked to be the first director? 
-The Senate is dealing cognately with 4 Bills which the Opposition does not oppose. Perhaps I should identify the Bills as the Crimes (Aircraft) Amendment Bill, the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill, the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Amendment Bill and the Extradition (Foreign States) Amendment Bill. The first of those Bills, of course, deals with the domestic situation within Australia. The Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill is the major one of the other 3 Bills and, in a sense, the 2 extradition Bills are ancillary to the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill. With regard to the Crimes (Aircraft) Amendment Bill, section 1 8 of the present Act makes it an offence to carry, place, deliver or possess dangerous goods on an aircraft, and dangerous goods are defined to cover a number of things, including firearms, ammunition, explosives and substances which endanger the safety of aircraft or people on board. A maximum penalty of imprisonment for 7 years is imposed by the present legislation. 
The need for the legislation now before the Senate arises, one assumes, from the fact that there has been a great increase in passenger aircraft traffic. The incidence of the carrying of dangerous goods on aircraft has increased in recent years, and the possibility of serious accident or damage to aircraft or injury to people has also increased in that period. In a sense aircraft accidents through the carrying of dangerous articles on aircraft is a growth industry. One assumes, and I think the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  referred to this in his second reading speech, that the purpose of the legislation is to deal with that situation. However, there are at least two classes of dangerous articles that can be carried. There are articles such as firearms which can be carried by passengers, and the carrying of those articles can constitute a very serious offence, and there are other articles which can be carried by passengers in what can be described as an innocent sense which also fall within the provisions of this legislation but the carrying of which clearly should not of necessity be dealt with as an indictable offence as required by the legislation. 
The Bill before the Senate introduces a proposed new section 22 (a) which provides for certain exceptions to indictable offences under the Act. In effect, it empowers a magistrate to deal with the matter in his discretion and to impose a summary conviction in the lower court with only the question of sentence being dealt with by the higher court. There are a number of elements which have to be satisfied before the magistrate can exercise jurisdiction and they include the agreement of both the prosecution and the defence and the exercise of discretion by the magistrate. If that discretion is exercised in favour of dealing with the matter summarily, reduced penalties apply in accordance with section 23 (4). The Opposition regards this as a sensible proposal, one which is consistent with changed circumstances since the original legislation was introduced. For that reason it does not oppose the proposed amendments. 
Of the three other Bills, the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill is the most important. It arises out of the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes Against Internationally Protected Persons adopted in 1973. That Convention was signed by the Government of Australia in 1974 and has been signed by a number of other countries including Canada, the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom. The purpose of that Convention is to provide protection for internationally protected persons and article 1 of the Convention, which is part of the schedule to the Bill, defines the expression 'internationally protected persons'. It includes a Head of State and any member of a collegial body performing the functions of a Head of State under the Constitution of the State concerned, a Head of Government or a Minister for Foreign Affairs whenever any such person is in a foreign State, as well as members of his family who accompany him. It also includes diplomats, if I can use that expression in the broadest sense. That is to say, it includes any representative or official of a State or any official or other agent of an international organisation of an intergovernmental character. The generic term 'diplomat' probably defines the persons who are covered or are intended to be covered by the provisions of the Convention. 
At the time the Convention was adopted there was a clear need for it in terms of the international situation and international law. Since it was adopted there have been a number of crimes against heads of State and diplomats who fall within the specification of the Convention. There have been a number of incidents in South America involving United States diplomatic personnel, one incident in Sweden and at least one incident in the Middle East- The Lebanon- involving a United States diplomat. With the increased level of international terrorism of one kind or another and the use of force against individuals as a means of promoting allegedly the interests of minority political groups and the growth of that practice in international affairs, the adoption of this Convention by countries becomes more and more important and the implementation of the signing of the Convention by legislation becomes important to Australia and to this Parliament. The Bill itself is largely in accordance with the provisions of the Convention of the United Nations. In the House of Representatives the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, representing the Opposition, made a number of comments about the specific terminology of the Bill and pointed to some discrepancies between the terminology of the legislation and the intent of the terminology of the Convention. I again refer to the Government, without taking any specific action in relation to them in the Senate, the suggestions made by the representative of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. 
There are two Bills containing amendments to extradition provisions, one dealing with the Commonwealth and one dealing with foreign countries. This legislation again flows from the articles of the Convention on the Prevention and 
Punishment of Crimes Against Internationally Protected Persons. It is obvious that it is ancillary legislation designed to give effect to the articles of the Convention and to protect the purpose of the main Bill before the Senate. The Opposition again does not oppose these Bills and regards them as consequential or ancillary to the main legislation. We take the view that the Government has acted wisely, if not as promptly as it might, in introducing this legislation. 
There have been some questions raised about the circumstances in which extradition proceedings are taken. There is a very wide discretion in the Attorney-General and we trust that that discretion will be exercised according to the same principles and in the manner adopted by Australian Attorneys-General in the past. If that trust is misplaced it certainly will become a matter of public issue and debate. So I make those brief comments about the legislation. It does have our support in a general sense and we will be voting in support of it. 
I rise in this debate to discuss the White Paper on defence which my colleague,  Senator Sim,  has just discussed. I want to be very limited in my remarks. Firstly, I would like to say that in a very basic way the discussion of defence policy in 
Australian politics has become a very phoney issue. If there were anything on which I could agree with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, it would be his comment that there would be a possibility of there being a bipartisan policy in relation to defence in Australia if people were prepared to grasp the nettle. I do not agree with much else of what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said. If one analyses his speech one will find that it was full of what I think I might fairly describe as rather phoney name dropping and quotations from faceless men in South East Asia- mythical Asian politicians. All of this was said in an attempt to introduce a notion of threat in Australia's defence policy. What  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack did earlier in this debate- he has been followed by, I think, more realistic men in the Liberal Party- was to try to introduce the notion of threat into Australia's defence policy. He did that, as I have said, by quoting examples of discussions with Asian politicians whose names and credentials he did not mention and about whom he had nothing to say except that he had had private discussions with those people and that they were of the opinion that Australia was subject to threat from the very fact that a European nation occupied this continent in what was predominantly an Asian area. 
I will come back to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's comments on this subject and to his threat theory because I want to put the point that it is symptomatic of the Liberal Party's attitude to a defence policy over a period of about 20 years, but before doing so I want to discuss some other issues. If one examines the history of Australia's foreign policy and goes back to the last war and the period of  Sir Robert  Menzies, one will find in an historical context that the appellation coined by the Australian Waterside Workers Federation of the Prime Minister of Australia at that time of 'Pig Iron Bob' was an appropriate appellation because if one examines the history of the Second World War one will find that prior to that war the Liberal Governmentthe United Australian Party Government as it was known at that time- was totally oblivious to the threat to Australia from Japan. 

 - Senator Missen asked me about the Labor Party. Of course, the Labor Party was turned to by the people of Australia at the time of the Second World War as the appropriate government to defend Australia 

 - Senator Missen said that it had been oblivious altogether, but the people of Australia did not think so because they turned at the time of the Second World War to a Labor Government, having no confidence in the Government of  Sir Robert  Menzies who, prior to that war, had been oblivious to the threat to Australia from Japan and had rightly achieved the appellation of 'Pig Iron Bob '. 
-Senator Missen referred to the couple of independents who crossed the floor. That may be of some comfort to him, but the fact of the matter, irrespective of whether independents crossed the floor, is that at the beginning of the Second World War and later in the Second World War the people of Australia turned to the Australian Labor Party as the appropriate Party to defend Australian in time of war. I suppose  Senator Missen  finds that difficult to accept. 
I was anticipating a brilliant interjection from  Senator Withers.  I would be grateful if he would articulate it more clearly. 
-Senator Withers was probably in Bunbury. 
-I am surprised to hear  Senator Withers  say that he was in the Middle East. It was probably as an Army chaplain or in some capacity of that nature. But the fact of the matter is that in 1941 and again in 194S the people of Australia turned to the Australian abor Party as the appropriate Government to resist aggression from overseas. 
-Senator Withers offers a comment which is derogatory to every Australian who served in the Second World War that he did not see them where the bullets were. The Japanese or the Germans did not see him where the bullets were because, with his corporation, if bullets were being fired by the Germans or the Japanese he would have been an easy target. But they did not pick it and he is in the Senate today. The fact of the matter is that the people of Australia whatever  Senator Withers  likes to say by way of interjection, turned to the Australian Labor Party in 1941 and 1945 because they felt that the Australian Labor Party was fair dinkum about the defence of Australia and, whatever his service in the Army Services Corps or wherever he may have happened to be,  Senator Withers  Party of later adoption was rejected at the time of the Second World War. 
I turn from the Second World War to the period of the 1950s. Honourable senators who ave some recollection of the 1950s will recall that this was the period when the Liberal Party in Government referred consistently to the yellow peril as a threat to Australia. What we were concerned about in Opposition at that time, and what intelligent people in the community were concerned about at that time, was whether it was a threat by the yellow peril or a threat by the red peril. There was a certain tendency towards colour blindness in the Liberal Party and we were not sure whether we were being threatened by a yellow peril or a red peril. But the fact of the matter is that throughout the 1950s we were told that we were threatened by the yellow peril. People who were involved in politics in Australia at that time will recall the Liberal Party's election propaganda which showed arrows threatening Australia from the north. The effect of those arrows was to induce in the minds of the Australian people a sense of fear of threat of invasion from the north. A former senator,  Senator Kennelly-  he is not in this Chamber tonight but I believe he was a distinguished Labor Party senator in former years- drew attention to that threat by asking what was the threat from China.  Senator Kennelly  answered his own question by asking how the Chinese were to come here. Were they to come in sampans? We in 1977 are debating this very same issue and trying to identify the threat to Australia. 
Throughout the 1950s Australian political life was plagued by threats, introduced by the Liberal Party, about invasion from some mythical country- probably China or Russia. Whichever country it was, throughout that period there was a notion of threat in Australian foreign policy and we were induced to spend money on defence to meet that threat. Throughout the 1950s that was wasted expenditure. It was also wasted expenditure throughout the 1960s, as I shall show in a minute. 
In the 1960s there was a further sophisticated development of the threat to Australia. It was called the domino theory. Vietnam was a domino and when Vietnam fell there would be other dominoes. Australia would be, as  Mr Malcolm  Booker suggested in the title of his latest book, the last domino. Throughout the 1960s this was the threat offered to Australia. From reviewing the political history of that period we all know that the Liberal Party, in Government, took assiduous steps to identify the threat to Australia in order to justify defence expenditure. The threat was the war in Vietnam, Chinese communist expansion and the expansion of various powers in South East Asia, powers which were never identified, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack failed to identify them tonight. All these threats were apparent throughout the 1960s as justification for defence expenditure in Australia. 
In 1976 we got the final threat from the present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. In June 1976 the Prime Minister announced that Russia was the threat to Australia about which we should be concerned in the 1970s. That notion was exemplified in his various statements and they attracted Press headlines such as 'Warmonger Mai grabs the Red Book'. There were other headlines in the Australian national dailies such as 'Loom of danger from Fraser' and 'PM outspokenly anti-Soviet'. All these threats were offered in July 1976. Another headline was 'PM challenges Russia on arms'. A lot of threats of a similar kind were uttered in July 1976 by the Prime Minister in an attempt to cultivate in Australia the fear of some invasion, whether it be by the Soviet Union or some mythical power about which we have never heard. 
I mention that because  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, in his contribution to this debate tonight, indulged in the sort of name dropping and snobbery which is characteristic of his performance in the Senate. I well remember last year when the honourable senator was trying to prove a point about rural industry. He mentioned the fact that he had had lunch the previous week with  Colonel McArthur,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board. That was cited by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack as proof of the fact that the propositions he advanced were valid. I am not interested in that form of snobbery. When I hear  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack I recall the words of the Irish poet, W. B. Yeates, who referred to Maud Gonnes' lover as an old bellows full of angry wind. We heard a lot tonight from the old bellows full of angry wind who sits on the other side of the chamber. He talked about threats to Australia in 1977. From where do these threats come? The threats in 1977 are based on  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's discussions with an anonymous and faceless Asian politician during the parliamentary recess. 
The honourable senator told us with great aplomb that he was overseas early this year and during that time he had discussions with an Asian politician who told him that we in Australia as a European race, had no right to be here.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack felt no compunction about mentioning or any need to mention the name of the Asian politician. He remains a faceless man. In the context of this debate  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's position is completely consistent with everything the Liberal Party has said about defence in the past 20 years because always there has been a bogy, always there has been somebody supposedly threatening Australia. Once it was the Chinese, who are now espoused by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser as great allies of - Australia. It was the Vietnamese; it was the Russians; it was all sorts of people. Now the threat has been reduced finally to its ultimate quintessence, the concept of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack who spoke of an Asian politician he met and with whom he had discussions over lunch earlier this year. 
The basic conceptual attitude behind all Liberal Party policy is that there is a threat to Australia, and that threat is identified as the Chinese, the Russians, or anybody it likes to name. The threat revealed by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack came from some mythical Asian politician he met last year. Sheer snobbery prevents him telling the Senate about the origins of that man. It prevents him telling us what that man stands for, what country he comes from and the threat he offers to Australia. This is the reality of this whole Australian defence debate. It is a phoney. It is phoney because it relies on imaginery threats created by the Liberal Party in the minds of the Australian people. 
Throughout 20 years of Australian history the only relevant facts in Australian defence debates which have concerned the Australian people have been threats from all sorts of mythical people, whether they be the Chinese of 10 years ago or the Russians of one year ago, as mentioned by Malcolm Fraser, or this faceless Asian man that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack met 3 months ago. What we have to decide is this: What it the reality of the perceived threat to Australia in 1977? Not one  speaker  on the Government side has shown us the reality of the perceived threat to Australia in 1 977. 
-I could not hear the interjection from  Senator Chaney.  I assume it was intelligent because he passed his Higher School Certificate. If he would repeat it I would be happy to answer him. One thing that ought to be put to rest about defence policy in Australia is that throughout the last 30 years of Australian history there has been one period of real warthe Second World War. In that war the Australian people turned to the Labor Party because they believed it was fair dinkum about the defence of Australia. They believed in its bona fides. They were not concerned about the Brisbane Line and all that sort of thing. They were concerned about a fair dinkum defence of Australia. The second period about which we might be legitimately concerned was that of the Vietnam war. All of us in this Parliament know, however much Government supporters might try to kid themselves, that the people of Australia were misled into the Vietnam war. No honourable senator on the Government side is prepared to get up and deny this because they are gutless about it. No Government supporter is prepared to deny that in the period of the Vietnam war the people of Australia ultimately accepted the view of the Australian Labor Party. This Government, the Fraser Government, now accepts the view of the Australian Labor Party about the origins of the Vietnam war, its consequences and its implications in international affairs. 
It was only after the Vietnam war that we found people like Malcolm Fraser, the western district grazier with all his prejudices and class concepts, attempting to raise- contrary to his own Defence Minister and Foreign Minister- the concept of a threat from the Soviet Union. Why does he do that? He does that because that is old style Liberal politics.  Sir Robert  Menzies got away with that. People in the past got away with it.  Sir Robert  Menzies' second rate successors in government got away with that stuff about a threat to Australia from the yellow peril, the red peril or whatever we might like to call it. They got away with it for 20 years. That threat, which was posed for the Australian people, never eventuated. In 1977 we are faced with the real possibility of a perceived threat to Australia. I say this: The Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 grappled with the realities of defence expenditure. I shall refer to that as found in a document which cites the actual figures. 
I heard a mild interjection from  Senator Missen.  If he would make it more loud I would answer. Let us look in real terms at this claim of the Liberal-National Country Parties being the great defenders of Australia Quite apart from their sordid involvement in Vietnam, in 1968-69, $30m was spent on defence. In 1969-70, $53m was spent on defence. In 1970-71, $153m was spent on defence. In 1971- 72, $24m was spent on defence and in 1972- 73, when the period of Labor Government started, $84m was spent on defence. That makes a total of $344m spent on defence. From 1973 to 1976 the total spent on defence was $7 16m. That, in real terms, represents the Labor Party's commitment to defence and something which the Liberal Party, characteristically, chooses to ignore. That represents the determination of the Australian Labor Party in relation to the defence of Australia in real terms. We cannot talk about defence in the abstract terms in which Liberal Governments have talked about it over many years. I cannot remember during which election we brought the FI 1 1 aircraft to Australia as an election issue because we were going to defend the people against militant communism-the Chinese.  Mr Fraser  was over there suck-holing to the Chinese last year. I use the term 'suck-holing to the Chinese' and I meant it. That is what he was doing in terms of his announced policies in relation to the Soviet Union and China. 
-Yes, I will withdraw. 
-The final point I wish to make is that we cannot discuss this issue of defence realistically unless we look at the infrastructure of Australian defence. We are in a situation where we keep debating whether we have so many minesweepers or so many destroyers and so on without looking at the fundamental question of the nature of Australian society, its defence capacity and the unity of the Australian people. I shall cite a couple of examples in relation to this. It is no good talking about our defence capacity unless we look at Australia's defence industries. In the 23 years of Liberal Government prior to the Labor Government of 1972, Australian defence industries were run down. Every honourable senator knows that the aircraft industry, the ship building industry and the situation of the Army in terms of defence capacity were run down. We must contrast our situation in Australia with a country like Sweden. Sweden can put into the air 800 first-class fighter aircraft. Australia has no such capacity. Sweden can do that simply because of the infrastructure of its industry. We have not looked at that matter in Australia. We must do so if we are to establish a viable defence position. 
Finally, I refer to one or two foreign policy aspects of Australian defence policy. I do not want to go into this in detail. I shall refer in this debate to  Mr Malcolm  Booker, a distinguished Australian diplomat, who has made some comments on this matter. I read from the  Australian Defence Reporter,  a sordid little trade magazine dealing with defence in which  Mr Malcolm  Booker has an article. It states: 
In short, before we commit ourselves to spending the large sums of money proposed by the White Paper we need to drop our reliance on hopeful guesses and give hard thought both to the real dangers we will face and the opportunities which might exist for avoiding them. 

 Mr Malcolm Booker in that article is making a comment about the realism of Australia's foreign policy and the relationship between defence policy and foreign policy.  Mr Booker  is simply saying that we lack the capacity to defend Australia and that the notions in the White Paper are unreal if we consider the defence of Australia in terms of our ambitions and aspirations for the defence of the continental shelf, for preservation of peace in the area and so on. We must limit our aspirations and, in limiting them, we must realise that we can defend the mainland of Australia only in a very limited sense. We must not rely on our so-called allies whether they be Great Britain or the United States. We can only adopt a realistic approach to this question and give hard thought to the real dangers which face Australia That is a question which is posed, in a sense, by the White Paper. We must adopt a realistic approach to it and to the conclusions at which it arrives. There really need be no difference between the parties in Australia on this question of defence. The only real differences are created by people like Malcolm Fraser who insist on a policy of inducing threat into the Australian community. That is an old Liberal Party trick which we must ignore in our realistic assessment of Australia's foreign policy and defence. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I direct my question to  Senator Carrick  as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister Which body, if any, is responsible for broadcasting standards and procedures as at 16 February 1977 in each of the 3 sectors of broadcasting? 
I take the opportunity at the Committee stage of the Bill to ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  whether he is aware of any provisions of this legislation which would come into effect immediately in relation to Australia? That is to say, does this country hold biological weapons which would fall within the provisions of the Bill and which would have to be destroyed? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, which had its second reading in the House of Representatives only yesterday. As the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the Bill provides for the ratification by the Government of Australia of an international convention on the prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of bacteriological and toxin weapons and on their destruction. The Bill contains a Schedule which sets out the Convention in some detail. The Senate will see from the various articles precisely what is proposed. Of course, what the Convention does, in the face of evidence regarding the development and, indeed, use of biological weapons is to try to establish an international order in which biological weapons are not used and in which those which are already in existence are destroyed. 
I suppose that in a rather inadequate way the Bill tends by law to cater for the situation in which man's technological capacity has outgrown his moral capacity to deal with what he creates. I do not think we can have much confidence in conventions of this kind; we can only hope that they will achieve the desired result and that their ratification by countries such as Australia and other signatories such as the United Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom will go some way towards preventing the use and stockpiling of weapons of this kind. I think they can go no further than that. Legislation and conventions cannot in themselves have the desired effect. We- all of us- can only support the Bill and hope that in our own circumstances it may do something to prevent the situation which the Convention seeks to prevent. 
-Senator Hall has raised a point about which I think we all must be concerned. It was raised earlier in the debate. In fact,  Senator Hall  raised 2 points. The first one was that he did not have very much time to study the legislation. That is a matter of regret. I take these matters very seriously and regard that as an abuse of the procedures of the Senate about which I am very concerned. The second point which the honourable senator raised goes to the heart of the effect of the legislation. I would commend to him a reading of the speech of the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  in the House of Representatives in which he deals with this very point. One of the points which  Mr Wentworth  makes even about this question of inspection is that biological weapons can be as small as a teaspoonful of a toxic substance and wipe out a whole community. This is the point that casts some doubts on the effectiveness of the legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
How many (a) houses, and (b) flats were completed by each State public housing authority in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What is the estimated number of dwellings that will be completed by each State public housing authority in 1976-77. 
How many dwellings were commenced by each State public housing authority with funds advanced by the Commonwealth Government in the years 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
How many applications for (a) rental, and (b) purchase were lodged with each of the State public housing authorities at 30 June 1 976. 
How many houses have been sold in each State by State public housing authorities in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
Have any State governments allocated to home builders ' accounts more than 30 per cent of the total amount advanced to the States in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
How many (a) houses, and (b) flats were rented or available for rental by State public housing authorities at 30 June in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
-I hope that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  appreciates that I do not want to delay the passage of this legislation, even though  Senator Baume  may want me to delay it, but it is implicit in the answer which the Minister gave to my question that the Australian Government currently has no means of knowing whether companies which might manufacture chemical or biological substances in this country are in fact doing so; that is to say, there is really no information available to the Government at this moment and, in the Minister's own words, the Government is incapable of in fact finding out whether Australia is capable of honouring the convention which is embodied in legislation once this Bill is passed. It seems to me to be taking private enterprise philosophy to extraordinary lengths to enable companies to be in fact in possession of or perhaps manufacturing substances which might fall within the scope of this legislation and which may be capable of being used as biological weapons, whether it be in warfare or elsewhere, and the Australian Government can do nothing about it. 
In fairness to the Minister I should say that he said in answer to a question from another honourable senator about what was to be done about what are called trans-national companies that the Government would in due course presumably make regulations relating to those companies and Australian companies. The only point I want to make to the Minister is that the passing of this legislation is a mockery unless that is done as a matter of great need and concern and is done with great expedition. I hope the Minister will see that regulations are made as soon as possible in regard to this matter and I hope that the Government does not run into any quasiconstitutional difficulties in making them. I think that it is a matter of great importance which should be dealt with without delay. 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill. It is legislation which is described in some detail in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  and which supposedly deals with what were called in the language of 1974 and 1975 'political appointments' to the Public Service- We see this legislation as a rather hastily conceived and inadequate means of dealing with what is a serious and important matter, that is, the terms of appointment, the tenure of office and so on of senior officers of the Public Service. We see this legislation as being nothing more than an attempt to fulfil an election slogan which went something to the effect that there would be no more jobs for the boys after the Fraser Government came into office. It is extraordinary that this legislation is being debated in the Senate on the day after  Mr Freeth  's appointment as High Commissioner to London was announced. That appointment is a salutary reminder of the emptiness of the slogan 'there will be no more jobs for the boys after we are elected to office', which was, of course, a slogan used in the election campaign of 1 975. 

 - Senator Thomas reminds me that this legislation is about the Public Service. If he wants some examples in that area, we will come to them later. What we on the Opposition side say about this legislation is that it is ill conceived and hastily prepared. The reason for saying that is that in February 1977 the Fraser Government, looking through its election promises, finds that there is perhaps one which it can fulfil. It cannot fulfil the ones about inflation, the ones about unemployment, the ones about business confidence or any of the others which are fundamental to the government of the Australian society. It can fulfil its promise that there will be no more jobs for the boys in the Public Service and fulfil its promise that permanent heads in the Public Service will come from certain very clearly defined sources. 
-From the depths behind me I am reminded again about the promise of an investment led recovery. Perhaps  Senator James  McClelland will interject in a minute and say that there will be a permanent head led recovery when this legislation is passed. Hope springs eternal in the human heart, and that is all we can expect from this legislation. There is nothing much else in it to advance the fundamental concern and the fundamental wish which I believe all honourable senators should share, namely, that the Government should introduce the best procedures for providing flexibility and expertise in the Australian Public Service. That is where we believe the legislation fails. It responds to an election slogan but fails to introduce any new procedures which would provide for those criteria to be fundamental to the question of the selection of senior officers in the Public Service. 
Let me refer very briefly to the second reading speech on this Bill by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. In one or two areas he set out matters which the Government apparently regards as being of great concern so far as this legislation is concerned. He said: 
One of the best safeguards of the political neutrality of the Public Service is a system of appointment-particularly of appointments to senior positions- which minimises the possibility of appointments for purely partisan reasons and increases the chance of making the best possible appointment. 
That is a very glib answer to the problem that aroused the slogan of 1 975. The fundamental defect, however, is that it assumes that in the process of government the thing that is to be avoided above all else is the possibility of somebody from the Liberal Party or the Labor Party being appointed to a senior position in the Public Service. In the words of the Minister's second reading speech, that would seem to be an appointment for purely partisan reasons. 
Of course, there is another criterion which should be applied to the question of who should be appointed to senior positions in the Public Service, and that is whether the appointees are people who, as a result of many years of service in the Australian Public Service and many years of residence in this sociological wasteland of Canberra, have assumed a natural conservatism in all their decision making, or whether they are not victims of that process of hardening of the bureaucratic arteries which arises from long term service and long term residence in Canberra. The question is whether they are conservative people like that or people who are capable of innovative and new ideas. That is a question which transcends the narrow limits of party politics. It is a question of fundamental importance to the good management and efficacy of legislation which comes before this Parliament. It is a question which the Minister studiously avoided in his second reading speech. It is something which the legislation completely avoids. The legislation does not grapple with that question at all, because, as I said before, it is before us in response to a slogan. 
The sort of problem which the legislation should be designed to overcome is that which was characterised by the Coombs Royal Commission in the following terms: 
The present characteristics of the career service enable the administration to function to some degree as a self-contained elite group exercising significant power generally in the interests of the  status quo,  but without effectively being accountable for its exercise. 
That is a characterisation by the Coombs Royal Commission- the Commission appointed by the Whitlam Labor Government, with choruses of approval from the then Opposition, because it was recognised that there were defects in the structure and methods of appointment in the Australian Public Service and that it had been a very long time since these questions had been examined. In the interests of efficiency in administration, in the interests of flexibility and, if I may use such a word, in the interests of creativity in administration, it was thought that it might be desirable that certain new procedures be introduced. That was the genesis, if I might use that word, of the Coombs Royal Commission which was appointed with the approval of both political parties. This Bill goes nowhere towards meeting any of those sorts of considerations. The details of the legislation have been characterised, quite correctly, as a means of perpetuating certainly the senior officers of the Public Service or as a means of self-perpetuation by what is virtually an old boy network operating amongst the permanent heads. 
I might just refer the Senate to some of the things which the Coombs Royal Commission did recommend and which this legislation avoids. Firstly, there was the recommendation that a set procedure be adopted which would leave the power of appointment finally with the Cabinet as as always been the practice in the past. It recommended that vacancies first be advertised, that a panel be nominated by the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned after consultation with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, and that a short list of suitable persons be prepared. The Minister would have the right to nominate a person to the panel for consideration and the  Chairman  would provide a short list of potential appointees, in order of preference, to the Minister concerned and to the Prime Minister. Thus the Minister and Cabinet would make the ultimate selection. The Royal Commission also recommended that these procedures be adopted for reviewing current appointments, or existing appointments, if a permanent head had been in that position for more than 5 years. The Royal Commission also took the view that a period of from 5 to 7 years was long enough for a departmental head to serve without review of his position and that in general he should be reallocated, or subject to those procedures, after a period of from 5 to 7 years as a permanent head of a department. 
Those recommendations of the Coombs Royal Commission all go back to this question of flexibility and the capacity for innovation within the Public Service for which this legislation does not cater. All it caters for, as the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, is 2 classes of appointees to senior positions in the Public Service- first of all, career appointees, that is permanent members of the Public Service; and, secondly, appointees who would have been characterised in the days of the Labor Government as political appointees. That second category would consist of non-established candidates, so called, who would be appointed effectively for a period of 5 years and whose appointment would be subject to termination by an in-coming government of another political persuasion, subject to certain conditions. Of course, I suppose that is some sort of an advance. It recognises, in a sense, that appointments can be made from outside the Public Service. They can be made for a fixed term and so on. But, as I indicated earlier, this is really not facing up to the problem. It is sidestepping it. It is avoiding the problem which the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration was asked to deal with. Throughout the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in all sorts of contexts one finds references to the report of the Royal Commission and of the Government's wish to consider the matter further. 
In relation to the fundamental matter which relates to the appointment and tenure of permanent heads specifically, the Government is not content to examine thoroughly the report of the Royal Commission and has specifically ignored some of its recommendations which were designed to deal with the situation which the Government claims is the basic problem. We see this very much as a piece of political legislation designed, as I have said, to fill an election promise. It introduces into the Australian Public Service a system of selection of permanent heads which is very much subject to the control and influence of the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, much less subject to the influence of Ministers and the Prime Minister and very much subject to the influence not only of the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board but also of his colleagues from among permanent heads whom he selects. The legislation introduces a procedure which does not allow for advertising before the committee, chaired by the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, meets to consider appointments. It provides for advertising after that has taken place. As I have said, this Bill ignores in those respects the recommendations of the Coombs Committee. The legislation does not help in any sense in introducing flexibility. In fact, when those procedures become established it may introduce a degree of rigidity and of first and second class permanent heads into the Public Service, but not so described. 
The Australian Labor Party sees this legislation as a sort of knee-jerk response in an effort to fulfil a mistaken election promise. It is an inadequate response in that it does not go to the question of the examination of the fundamentals of what the Public Service methods of appointment should be, what the structure should be, and what the desired end should be in providing the best possible advice and service to the Parliament and Government of this country. For the reasons which I have summarised as much as possible, we strongly oppose this legislation and strongly oppose the motives which have led to its introduction. 
I understand from the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  that these Constitution alteration Bills are not being taken cognately. 
-The Bill before the Senate is the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1977. Before we have been able to grapple with this subject matter tonight we have had to listen to a number of honourable senators invoking the public interest and concern over this Bill. That same sort of concern was not displayed by those honourable senators, as I recall it, when they voted in favour of the delaying of Supply in 1975. We have heard honourable senators in this chamber invoking the need for the Senate to debate this matter on a broadcast day. The same honourable senators always invoke the views of the founding fathers who, in all their contemplations about the meaning of the Constitution, did not contemplate that debates of the Senate would have to be broadcast on radio. These sorts of tactics have been used tonight in an attempt to put off a discussion, particularly on the simultaneous elections proposal, for a variety of reasons to which I will refer in the course of my remarks. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs had this to say in his second reading speech on the Bill: 
Under the existing provisions -  that is of the Constitutionit  is theoretically possible to keep elections for the  2  Houses in phase by holding elections for the House of Representatives whenever half Senate elections are due. However, the exigencies of political life are such that synchronisation on this basis is difficult to maintain. 
There speaks the voice of genuine experience. The exigencies of recent political life have shown that to be the case and the exigencies of arguments put by the then Opposition in relation to a very similar proposal in 1974 indicate that those difficulties still beset the Government Parties here tonight. I refer, for example, to the difficulty of maintaining a consistent attitude in relation to a provision such as this. 
The Opposition has some criticisms of this Bill. I think that a theatrical critic once described a play as having beautiful scenery but said that the actors kept getting in the way. So far as we on the Opposition side are concerned, we have supported the proposals contained in this Bill consistently in the 3 Constitutional Conventions which have been held in the last 4 years. We introduced them into the Senate in 1973. We supported them publicly in 1974. Our position has been quite consistent throughout. The scenery for us has not changed. It is exactly the same scenery as that with which we were involved in all those debates that took place on all those occasions to which I have referred. But on this occasion we have some suspicion, in some ways, of the motives of the Government, because the actors are getting in the way and we are seeing all sorts of devices being used by those actors to stop us getting on with the thing which the Opposition has sought in relation to simultaneous elections over a number of years. Of course, we are concerned about some of the immediate political effects of this proposal if it is carried. The first immediate political effect of which this Government no doubt is well aware is that the life of the Senate will be extended artificially for a period of approximately 6 months by this alteration of the Constitution. This is something devoutly to be wished for by a government faced with the economic difficulties that face this Government. It is whistling like Hotspur to summon spirits from the vasty deep and is not sure whether they will come. It is something devoutly to be wished for by the Government that its life in the Senate should be extended for a period of about 6 months. That is political disability we find associated with these proposals- something introduced by the actors into the scenery to which I referred. 
Of course, there are all sorts of arguments which can be advanced in favour of a simultaneous elections proposal, many of them dealt with by the Minister himself in his second reading speech. There is the argument relating to the cost of elections. I would have thought that that is an argument of no great principle or substance; but it is an argument which is advanced consistently. There is the argument in relation to the fact that Australians for a variety of reasons, which might have been reinforced if they had been watching the proceedings of the Senate tonight on television, are sick of politicians and sick of too many elections. That seems to me to be a very valid argument of which we all are aware. 
There is the argument for limiting the number of elections to which the Australian people are subjected because unfortunately the Australian people no longer see elections, as they might have done, as an opportunity to reflect their views and wishes and to influence the course of events. Rather, they see them as a disability which is imposed on them by politicians in Canberra. That seems to me to be the reality of the position, a position accepted by many people in the Australian community. There is a quite clear argument for limiting the number of elections. Of course, this could have been done in ways other than the way in which the Government has sought to do it here; but it seems to us, as a matter of convenience and as a matter of rationality, that this should be done in the way the Government has proposed. 
Of course, the real importance and significance of this proposal from our point of view in the Opposition is that it does what many of its critics say it will do. It limits the significance and influence of the Senate. That is something which I would have thought is desirable in the interests of good government in this country. We will hear a lot about that from people such as  Senator Wright  and others. We have heard a lot about it from  Senator Rae  already. I follow their arguments. I just do not happen to agree with them. I suppose that if one raises this question it points up the very reality which certain people still refuse to accept- the reality that the Senate is not a States House or a House of review in the sense in which the founding fathers used both those terms; the Senate is a Party House. This proposal has been introduced into the Senate on party lines. It has been pushed through by the leader of a political party just as the delaying of the Budget in 1975 was dictated by a political party leader who is not in this House but in the House of Representatives. Just as  Senator Wright, Senator Rae  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and all the others fell into line when they were told by a political party leader outside this House what they had to do, so they are displaying the same sort of inconsistency tonight as we discuss this proposal before the Senate now. 
The reality of this proposal is that when it is passed, if it is passed, the Senate will more truly reflect the people's wishes than it has even done before, except when as  Senator Wright  quite correctly pointed out in his dissenting view to the Constitutional Review Committee of 1959, that up to that time there had been very few occasions when Senate elections and House of Representatives elections were held separately. But we know that since 1963 that has not been the case. The fact is that if the elections are held simultaneously in accordance with this proposal now before the Senate, the Senate will have more hope of truly reflecting the last obtained wishes of the voters of this country on who they wish to be the government in this country. The composition of the Senate, although chosen by proportional representation, will more surely reflect the views of the people and will be more consistent with the composition of the House of Representatives. That would seem to me to be in the long term interests of good government and the long term interests of this country. 
What I find extraordinary about this proposal and the attitude of the Government on this matter is the latter day conversion to this view of so many people sitting on the opposite side of the House. 
-Senator Missen speaks with a lonely voice. It is sometimes said that the heresies of Labor in one year become Liberal orthodoxies 5 years later. On this occasion the time span has been decreased considerably. The heresies of Labor in 1974 have become Liberal Government orthodoxies in 1977. This is an amazing conversion which in some circumstances might make us suspicious. I do not wish to wax Shakespearian, but I think it was Shakespeare who said: 'This last thing is the greatest treason, to do the right thing for the wrong reason'. I shall listen to this debate with great interest to make sure that the Government is doing the right thing for the right reason and not the right thing for the wrong reason. By the wrong reason I of course mean political expediency dictated by the sorts of problems it has concerning the management of this country in 1 977. We look on them with suspicion but approval as a matter of principle. When I say that there has been a latent conversion, I refer- and  Senator Rae  has stolen a lot of what I proposed to say on this matter- to the no case of 1974 to which all Government senators subscribed on the hustings. It is a most extraordinary document. Apart from warning of the dangers of a socialist centralist Labor government- and I do not think as one senator put it that we are in much danger of that in the immediate future- the Government at the time was being accused of being deceitful. Of the real proposed law the document said: 
This so-called Simultaneous Elections referendum is the first one of four which the Government is holding with the Senate elections, and in each one the Government has deliberately attempted to mislead you. These referendums are part of a scheme to impose in Australia a centralist onecontrol administration from Canberra. The Government also hopes these referendums will put a smokescreen over the central issues of the Senate election. 
What were the central issues? At last we had the 1974 show. What were the central issues of the 1974 Senate election to be? They were runaway inflation, absurdly high interest rates, staggering tax payments, irresponsible government spending and a Public Service growing like Topsy. Perhaps it is not the Public Service that is growing like Topsy; it is unemployment which is growing like Topsy in 1977. That is the main difference. But this is at last the 1974 show, is it not? The Government at that time, with all those bad things which were attributed to the Government and which were running at a much lower rate than they are now, was accused of being deceitful and of trying to bemuse the people and distract them from those essential factors of mismanagement to which I have referred. The document setting out the case for no- the case of honourable senators opposite- goes on to say: 
The dishonesty of this referendum question is that it says this is the only way to get Senate and House of Representatives elections held together. That is simply untrue. 

 Senator Wright knows that that statement that it is simply untrue is correct. He pointed this out in his dissenting report to the Committee of 1959. The document goes on to say: 
The Constitution, the law, and parliamentary practice allow each Prime Minister to have a House of Representatives election on the same day as any Senate election. He can have the House of Representatives and Senate elections on the same day simply by his own decision. 
He could do that in 1977 and he could do it in 1978. He could have a House of Representatives election with the Senate election if he wanted to do so. The document further states: 
The fact that this Prime Minister does not do so, exposes the fraud of this referendum. 
Then it goes on to explain the fraud and that 'the Senate is not an arm of the House of Representatives '. We would agree with that. We see the Senate as a sort of palsied hand or a withered leg or something of that kind attached to the House of Representatives- an encumbrance to the process of government in this country. The description is graphic, I suppose, but they are the words of the now Speaker of the House of Representatives. He says of the House of Representatives and the Senate: 
Both are established under the Constitution as equal, independent Houses of Parliament with differing roles. The Senate is the only institution in Australia able tobe a barrier to the arbitrary misuse of power by a Prime Minister or his Cabinet. 
I hope that we will hear an explanation about that from  Senator Wright  later in this debate. 
Then the document goes on to deal with the falsity of the Federal Labor Government's position relating to advertisements inserted  oy  the Government of the day in support of the referendum proposals. Let it be said that we on this side of the House will support this referendum proposal here and on the hustings. There will be no doubt about that because we believe in constitutional change, not just for its own sake but because of the experience of this Parliament and the experience which the government of Australia has had at the hands of the Senate. 
We do not believe in the statement that the Senate is an independent and equal House or that it should be an independent and equal House. I can see that if I cite our scriptures they will be quoted by  Senator Wright  for his own purposes, but that does not particularly concern me. The fact is that we do have a different view of the role of the Senate; we do have a different view of the role of government and the way government should function in this country, and we do have a very strong view that the powers of the Senate should be delimited at every opportunity. These are the basic reasons why we will be supporting the legislation. 
In saying that we are being consistent with everything we have said before. It is for Government senators to explain their latter day conversion and the inconsistencies in their position on this matter over 3 years. Some of them will obviously be free from the burden of explaining their inconsistencies because they have at least been consistent in their opposition to any proposals to alter the Australian Constitution. Amongst them are those who described themselves on one occasion, I recall, as the 'bulwark of the Australian Constitution'. That is a splendid phrase which impressed me when I was a new senator. They are people who have views on the nature of the parliamentary institution which I and the Opposition do not believe are consistent with the continued existence of parliamentary government in this country. They are entitled to put their views. 

 - Senator Harradine says: Let the people have their say on this matter. ' He invited us earlier tonight to let the people have a say in the drafting of the proposals. Imagine an honourable senator in this chamber sidling up to somebody in a pub and saying: 'Mate, what do you think about the simultaneous election proposals? What do you think should be in clause 3?' The reply would surely be less than parliamentary. I consider that it is a somewhat phoney proposition that because of  Senator Harradine  's false rhetoric in this matter the people should have a say in the drafting of the constitutional amendment proposals. If he is concerned about the people having a say that is what a referendum is for. They will have a say after the Senate has passed this legislation. I remind  Senator Harradine  that they had a say on 1 8 May 1 974. 
-The expression 'they knocked it off' is unparliamentary. I would have thought that that is not an appropriate expression to use in the Parliament. What  Senator Harradine  surely means is that they defeated the referendum proposals in 1974. Let me tell him by what margin that was done. In the whole of Australia the percentage voting in favour of the Constitutional Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill was 48.3. The percentage voting against was S1.7. In Tasmania  Senator Harradine  's people got a slightly better result for the proposition which he espouses but not much. I remind him that that was in 1974, some 3 years ago, when the whole machinery of the then Opposition, for specious reasons which it no longer advances and which it has abandoned, was arraigned against the proposals put by the Labor Government. Nevertheless, in that political situation in 1974, 48.3 per cent of the Australian people voted in favour of the proposal to alter the Constitution in relation to simultaneous elections. 
-Thirty-nine per cent of the people were in favour of the proposal in the honourable senator's State. It is sometimes said that the Tasmanian people are backward. I have now discovered the origin of that expression. It is in relation to constitutional reform. I have never thought of them as being backward in any other way. The fact is that the percentage of people in favour of the proposal for the whole of Australia was a high one and the referendum was carried in 3 States. When people have to face up to a decision on this matter they will do so in the light of the views of the Australian Labor Party, consistently held and put to them over a number of years in all the forums where this matter is discussed. They will do so in the light of the new found wisdom of Government senators in 1 977. 1 predict that the prospect of this proposal being carried is better than it was in most cases where alterations to the Constitution have been sought by a government of either persuasion. For reasons which I have advanced and which have been set out by the Australian Labor Party in the House of Representatives and in political forums in the last four or five years- at least since 1973-1 support the proposal which is now before the Senate. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to a question asked by  Senator Button  of the Minister on 19 October 1976 and the Minister's reply given on 20 October relating to the sale of equipment of the Film Australia Processing Laboratory on 7 October 1976, why was the equipment in question offered for sale in one lot. 
Did the auctioneer, prior to offering the equipment for sale in one lot, indicate that he would accept any bids for individual lots as itemised in the catalogue. 
Who estimated the total value of the equipment sold as being approximately $5,500. 
What estimated market value was placed on the silver recovery unit, lot 6. 
What was the estimated market value of the gelatine filters, lots 53-59 inclusive. 
What was the estimated market value of the Pako chemical mixer, lot 7. 
What was the estimated market value of the items in lots 1,2,3 and 4 respectively. 
What was the estimated market value of the film stock, lots 79-85 inclusive. 
What was the estimated market value of the chemicals in lots 60-78 inclusive. 
Was the purchaser of the equipment sold at the auction a  Mr Marry  Moil. 
1 1 ) ls the Minister aware of the occupation of  Mr Harry  Moll. 
Will the Minister initiate inquiries to see if any and which individual items purchased at the auction have been resold for more than the total purchase price paid. 
Who appointed Hamilton Miller Pty Ltd as auctioneers of the equipment. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I remind him that I asked him a week ago what, if any, body was currently responsible in Australia for the control of broadcasting standards and procedures in relation to each of the 3 sectors of broadcasting. Has the Minister yet an answer to that question and has the Government in fact any policy on that matter? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The views of both the Opposition and the Government were expressed in the House of Representatives and anyone wishing to know them can consult the  Hansard  of that House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
-The Opposition will not accept  Senator Harradine  's motion and vote for it, the reasons being that we regard the motives behind the motion as suspect; the reasoning in support of it is untenable and absurd; we agree with the view expressed by  Senator Durack  that the people will have an appropriate opportunity to judge the issues involved. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer the Minister to the platform of the Liberal Party of Australia, which says that the Liberal Party believes in full employment. I also refer him to the election promise of December 1975 that a Liberal government would reduce the level of unemployment by 200 000. In the light of those 2 matters, I ask: What is the Minister really trying to say regarding the current unemployment figures and the questions which have been asked of him about employees who leave their jobs voluntarily and who are unable to find other jobs? Is he saying that it is now a part of this Government 's policy that people should not leave their jobs voluntarily? I want to be quite clear about this because very vague answers have been given by the Minister in replies to previous questions. 
-The Opposition will not support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wright.  The fundamental reason for that is that we regard it as being unnecessary. I want to say one or two words about what has been said in support of the amendment. It has been argued in support of it that the measure before the chamber has not been given adequate consideration over the years. I find it surprising that that allegation should be made by people who now apparently are going to support this amendment. They have given the Opposition no opportunity at all to consider adequately the amendment which they now propose. 
It has been circulated this morning. 
-Well, late last night. But the point remains the same. If one is to consider at this stage the sorts of proposals contained in all of these amendments, I still make the claim that we have not been given adequate notice of them. That could have been done some weeks ago by those people who are concerned about these proposals. The Opposition will not support them. I have indicated that the essential reason why we cannot do so is that we regard them as being unnecessary. I might say that I have some respect for the elegant drafting done by  Senator Wright  and the intention behind some of the proposals but that is not sufficient to justify the Opposition in supporting them. 
-The Opposition will oppose this amendment. In speaking in the second reading debate on this Bill we expressed the view that one of the advantages of the simultaneous elections provision would be that this chamber would more adequately reflect at a more recent date the views of the electors. There was some discussion in the course of the debate about situations which arose in which honourable senators elected anything up to 5 years previously acted to effectively obstruct or dismiss the House of Representatives. We regard the amendment as unnecessary and unreal. It reflects a chronic anxiety state in the mover,  Senator Jessop,  rather than any real need for amendment to the Bill before the Committee. 
-The Senate is debating the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill. This is an important proposal which the Opposition does not oppose. It has become important only since 1975. The procedure for filling vacancies in the Senate is laid down in section 15 of the Constitution which provides that the Parliaments of the various States shall fill vacancies as they arise. There is no provision in the Constitution for an honourable senator who had died or retired, or in some other way left this place to be replaced by a person from the same political party. From 1949 to 1975 that convention applied. The Senate will be aware that in those years  Sir John  Spicer was replaced in this place by  Senator Hannan; Sir William  Spooner by  Senator Cotton; Mr Gorton  by  Senator Greenwood;  Dame Annabelle Rankin by  Senator Bonner; Senator Prowse  by  Senator Reid;  and then, of course, in 1975  Senator Murphy  was replaced by  Senator Bunting  and  Senator Milliner  by  Senator Field.  It is only in respect of the last two replacements that the convention which operated from 1949 was broken. If one reads the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  one sees that there is- if I might use the expression- a low key description of what happened in 1975. The Minister stated: 
Nevertheless from the introduction of proportional representation in 1949 until the vacancy caused by  Senator Murphy's  appointment to the High Court in 1975 the practice was observed of filling casual vacancies by the appointment of a person belonging to the same political party as the former senator. 
When  Senator Murphy  had to be replaced this practice was questioned. Questions arose as to whether it was incumbent on the New South Wales Parliament to replace him with a member of the Australian Labor Party. There were some who felt that there was a convention which required the vacancy to be filled on that basis. But others took the contrary view. 
The Premier of New South Wales at that time was the late  Mr Lewis-  I speak in political terms. The Minister continued: 
In the result, as honourable members will well remember, the person chosen to replace  Senator Murphy  was not a member of the Labor Party. In choosing the person to replace  Senator Murphy  the New South Wales Parliament quite clearly acted within the strict terms of the Constitution. Whether it breached a convention is a matter on which opinions have, and no doubt will continue, to differ. 
Similar questions arose in relation to the replacement of  Senator Milliner  by  Senator Field.  The Minister went on: 
More recently, however, following the death of the late  Senator Greenwood,  the filling of his place followed the convention. He was replaced by a person who was a member of the political party to which the late senator belonged. 
As I say, that is a very low key description by the Attorney-General of the history of replacements of retired and deceased senators in the last few years. It is a view which is seen through somewhat tinted glasses, looked upon by the Minister through the charitable mists of retrospect of 2 years. Of course, there is a less charitable view of what happened in 1975. There is a view which sees what happened as being an example in this place of pious people having their country cousins rob a bank and saying: 'Tut, tut', to them when they do so, but sharing the proceeds with them and then saying: 'Look, it cannot happen again. We will have a constitutional referendum to make sure you behave yourself in future'. In wider terms one could say: 'We should have a constitutional referendum to make sure that we behave ourselves in future'. This proposal is of particular relevance to the Government. It would never have been necessary to introduce this measure as a result of the conduct of Labor governments. But it is necessary to introduce this proposal because of the conduct of past governments. For us, it might be described as the 'lest we forget ' constitutional referendum. 
-The honourable senator can tell me the relevance of that later but not now. There are a number of details in this proposal on which we might offer some criticism. The fact of the matter is that it is in substance the provision which was approved of by the Constitutional Convention. There is a slight difference. It is in substance the proposal which was approved of by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of 1959, although that Committee did not see the way in which it could be carried out. It is a necessary amendment to the Constitution and one which we believe will receive the approval of the Australian people, having regard to the conduct of State governments in recent years. I commend the proposal to the Senate. It will have the full support of the Opposition. It is designed to ensure that the heirs and successors of members of this Government do not behave in the way in which their colleagues did in the past. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government obtained information regarding the incomes of doctors and particularly general practitioners for the financial year ending 30 June 1976. 
What was the average income of a general practitioner in Australia for this period. 
Will the Minister make available to the Senate the average incomes of general practitioners, by States, as soon as possible. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement.  I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a question which I asked him on Friday, 25 February 1977, relating to unemployment. In that question I adverted to the fact that the Minister had answered questions of a Dorothy Dix nature from his colleagues on his side of the Senate relating to the fact that 38 per cent of people who are currently unemployed had apparently left their jobs voluntarily. I asked: 
Is he saying that it is now a part of this Government's policy that people should not leave their jobs voluntarily? 
The Minister replied: 
The Government is not saying that and I am not saying that. 
In the light of the statement made by the Prime Minister last Saturday questioning how seriously a person wishes to work if he or she leaves a job, I ask: Does the Minister repudiate the Prime Minister's statement in view of his own earlier answer or has there been a change in Government policy on this issue? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that during Her Majesty's visit to Canberra at each of her points of visit she was preceded by a team of consultants who sprayed the area with fly spray? What was the cost of this operation? By whom was it performed? Was it designed to suggest to Her Majesty that there are no flies in Australia or no flies on this Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer the Minister to the then Opposition's policy on industrial relations in 1975 when the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  announced that the whole thrust of the Opposition's policy was directed towards preventing industrial disputes from occurring. I also refer the Minister to the statistics published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on 4 March this year showing that 3.8 million working days were lost during 1976. 1 ask: Is that the highest figure for man days lost in Australia since 1 929? Does that figure suggest to the Minister that the priorities in industrial relations set out by this Government have not been achieved? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer the Minister to 2 questions I have asked him already regarding persons who voluntarily leave their employment and who are included in unemployment figures. Following his answer to me last week, I again refer the Minister to a remark made by the Prime Minister who asked whether people who voluntarily leave their jobs really want to work. Does the Minister agree with the implication contained in that remark, that is, that persons who voluntarily leave their employment are, in the opinion of this Government, incipient dole bludgers? 
-The Senate is debating the Speech given by  Her  Majesty the Queen last week on behalf of her Government. I shall deal with one or two specific issues in that Speech, but before doing so I record my personal sadness at the content of the Speech which the Queen was invited by this Government to deliver. To me it seems something of an insult to  Her  Majesty that she should be asked, as a visitor to this country, to deliver a speech of such utter philosophical banality as she was asked to do in this chamber just over a week ago. The situation reminds one somewhat of an opera star in a pageantry opera being asked to sing a pedestrian pop song, because the Speech provided no solution and no awareness of the real problems with which this country is faced at the moment. Rather it was a collection of the philosophical cliches of this Government which have been reiterated over the whole preceding year. 
I want to draw some attention to the various alibis which this Government has adopted since it was elected for the failure of its election promises and the failure of its economic management, but before I do I shall contrast some of the failures with the promises that were made in 1975- the promise to restore business confidence, the promise to reduce inflation and the promise to slash unemployment by 200 000 people if this Government were elected. As those promises have been seen to be incapable of realisation the alibis which the Government has sought for those failures have increased in variety and the Government's explanation of them has increased in intensity. For example, we have had the reiterated theme that the faults of society in 1977 are the responsibility of the Labor Government of 1972-75 and thus we still have  Senator Carrick  answering questions in this chamber in a manner reminiscent of a cracked 78 speed record. We get it every day and always the same explanation is offered for this Government's failure to implement the programs it announced it would implement. 
The second alibi used is the failure of the business community to respond to the election of this Government and become confident immediately upon the election of  Mr Fraser  's Government. A third alibi is the failure of Australian consumers to spend as this Government hoped and expected they would and as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has repeatedly asked them to do. A fourth alibi is the failure of the trade union movement in Australia to appreciate that it was necessary for  Mr Fraser  to abandon his promise of wage indexation exactly  2lh  months after it was made. So the unions are blamed for their failure to appreciate that abandonment of a promise. Another alibi is the failure of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to realise that its constitutional and legislative function is to settle industrial disputes, and its failure to realise that it is an arm of government economic policy. If the Government really believes that, it should spell it out, but that has never been said. On a number of occasions inflation has been blamed on the Commission and anticipated levels of inflation have been blamed on it even before its decisions have been made. 
-I am indebted to  Senator Primmer  for the latest information on this matter but the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission certainly has been blamed for the failure of the Government's economic policy. More recently a new alibi has been creeping into Government statements; that is the tendency to blame not only the unemployed in Australia for the failures of this Government but also, more particularly, the compilers of unemployment statistics who have, in the words of one senior Minister, produced a myth. That is to say that unemployment in this country is a myth and all the work that has been done in compiling those statistics apparently has been in pursuance of the creation of a myth. I find it extraordinary when I look back to December 1975 to find that this Government, which now has some 354 000 registered unemployed, said then that it would slash unemployment by 200 000 people. If it is true that unemployment is a myth, as is now said, then that promise which was one of the factors contributing to the defeat of the Labor Government is presumably also a myth and a falsehood which is still perpetuated in Australian political life. 
I turn specifically now to unemployment because it is a matter which has concerned the Senate in questions and in debate for some time. In the last 2 weeks I have asked of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations 3 questions regarding the suggestion which is now emanating from the Government that nearly 40 per cent of unemployed persons voluntarily left their employment and that certain things, although it is not specified what they are, follow from that statistic. The Prime Minister said a week ago that the figure has been established as a result of a Government survey and he then asked the rhetorical question: Can it be said that these people really want to work? I have asked  Senator Durack  to give us his understanding of what the Prime Minister meant in that rhetorical question but I have failed to receive an answer. However, fortunately some of his colleagues are more obliging and  Senator Davidson  in a speech on this subject a week ago gave the answer in the clearest and most explicit terms. He referred to a Government survey which, he said, 'discloses the fact that of the total number of 354 000 people who are unemployed in the nation, more than 141 000 people registered as unemployed voluntarily resigned from their jobs'. He continued: 
In frank terms this means that 40 per cent either declined or refused to work and accepted from the taxpayer considerable amounts of money which have now been increased, with further benefits for their dependants. 
I am indebted to  Senator Davidson  for spelling it out so carefully and I find what he said significant because I thought it was a very well prepared speech. He obviously gave a lot of thought to what he would say on this matter and spelt out for us what the Minister in this chamber has not been prepared to spell out. Although I am obliged to  Senator Davidson,  I find what was spelt out so difficult to understand and so reprehensible because it seems to me to be an insult to thousands of people in this country who voluntarily left their employment for perfectly legitimate reasons. It seems to me to be wrong and superficial in its imputed analysis of this problem. It seems to seek to blame people for situations which are not of their making and it contrasts very sharply with a statement in the 
Queen's Speech which the Senate is now debating and to which I wish to refer. A key part of the Speech was this statement: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lies a commitment and a concern: commitment to increasing the freedom,  opportunity  and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
If that is at the heart of this Government's concern it should have been stated more precisely. The Speech should have said that the Government had a commitment to increasing the freedom of people except their freedom to change their jobs, and a commitment to increasing the freedom of people to make their own choices except a choice about the sort of employment in which they are to engage. That would have been a more honest statement of the Government's intentions and policies as they were revealed by  Senator Davidson  speaking, I take it, on behalf of the Government in the absence of any declared statement from the Minister on the question to which I advert. So I see that approach as being not only superficial and wrong but also inconsistent with the Government's position on this matter. What it seems to do is ignore the real issues and ignore the nature of unemployment as it now is and some of the very important changed social consequences in Australia. The notion that unemployment is a myth is an exercise in unreality, self-delusion and escapism by this Government. 
I turn now to some of the facts in our discussion on unemployment which this Government and this Parliament ignore, but before doing so let me say that I believe the most profound failure of the Fraser Government is its desire to see this problem in terms of its own mythology, to look back to the halcyon days of the 1960s and to say that in those days these things did not happen and that even if they had had happened it would have had the solutions to them. The Government argues that we should look at the problems in the same way and try the same solutions to see whether those solutions will work in 1977 and if the problems will disappear in the same way as they seemed to disappear in the 1950s and 1960s. I can assure Government senators that that will not happen. For example, it is futile to talk about decreasing the size of the public sector of the economy and the private sector taking up the slack as if the economy of this country in 1977 was like a blancmange and if one side of it were pushed the other side would fall into position. It is an absolutely futile exercise to seek solutions in simplistic terms in that way. 1 think that the unemployment situation is fairly summarised as I believe it to be in 1977 in a discussion paper of the Australian Council of Social Services entitled:  What happened to full employment?  The Council summarises the position in this way:   . . unemployment is not, in the immediate sense, a common problem', it strikes selectively, and most commonly at those most vulnerable to social and economic disruption- the unskilled and semi-skilled, the female school-leavers, the poor, the marginal workforce members, the Aborigines and so on. 
If that be correct and if the causes of unemployment be as I suspect they are, we cannot any longer look backward to old solutions. We have a different kind of unemployment. A great deal of it is due, admittedly, to the current economic malaise but much of it is due to lack of planning over many years in this country. There are certain facts in regard to lack of planning which I believe we all must face up to. They are being faced up to in this country far too late. I believe that this is the cause of many of our current problems. We now hear talk from Government supporters in the Parliament but see very little action on the question of manpower policies. But if we go back to 1967, we see that the Minister for Labour at the time,  Mr Bury,  was able to boast in these terms: 
Australia is one of those countries which does not engage in manpower planning. We are fortunate in possessing vigorous product and resource markets in which demand and supply forces can operate freely. 
The key sentence is: 
Australia is one of those countries which does not engage in manpower planning. 
He said that in 1967 at the time when pretty well all countries of equivalent economic sophistication were already engaging in serious manpower planning programs. Australia was in the fortunate laissez-faire and lucky country environment to be able to boast through its Minister for Labour that it did not engage in manpower planning. That inadequacy of the 1960s cannot be blamed on the brief period of Labor Government from 1972 to 1975. It was in that period- in 1974- that for the first time in Australian history an Australian government sent overseas a high-powered mission to study manpower planning. It was as a result of that task force 's visit to Europe that the National Employment and Training scheme with much wider ramifications than this present Government is prepared to allow it was first set up. That was the first initiative in manpower planning on a long term basis which this country has ever embarked upon. The response of this Government has been to limit the NEAT scheme and to try to tailor it to a sort of knee jerk response to the current economic situation without any forward planning or forward looking in any sense. The absence of manpower policy is a factor which has bedevilled this country for many years and which is a direct responsibility of governments of the 1960s. It remains the responsibility of this Government not to indulge in a sort of knee jerk response to the immediate situation but to try to grapple with this situation of manpower policies for the future. 
The second fact which I believe we must face up to relating to unemployment in Australia- it particularly relates to unemployment amongst young people- is that for many years there have been changing social aspirations in Australia which greatly effect the situation of supply and demand in the labour market in 1977. The whole ethos of this country in the 1960s was directed towards higher levels of education. There was an education boom in the 1960s and the early 1970s. There was strong parental pressure in favour of the consequences of that education boom against participation in uninteresting jobs and jobs which were regarded as menial. In fact, those very aspirations have been encouraged by this present Government in various ways. But the Government is not entirely unaware of those changed aspirations of the young people of Australia. It is just that one part of the Government does not know what the other part is doing. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last year commissioned a study group on youth affairs which published its report a month or so ago. In summary form, the conclusions of that study group were as follows: 
Recent developments- and especially the marked and disproportionately high levels of unemployment among the young- have dramatised the inadequacy of existing arrangements, not only as they affect the employment needs of youth, but also over a whole range of educational, recreational, housing and other programs which impinge upon youth. 
Inter-related issues arising from smaller families, higher female workforce participation rates, longer periods of formal education, the stress within employment markets on accreditation, the increased affluence of many members of the community, changing life-styles etc., are impacting on youth in complex ways that deserve more careful attention than they appear to have been receiving in the past. 
That Government study group seems to show some awareness of the problems which Government senators try to ignore by characterising people who voluntarily leave their employment as people who are lazy and who want to receive welfare benefits and by characterising young people who are without work in a general sense as 'dole bludgers'. That is being done; let there be no mistake about that. But it is too simple to ignore the consequences of the Government's own reports on this matter and to indulge in that simple sort of sneering characterisation of people who are unemployed without having regard to some of those changed aspirations which both the reports deal with and to which I have referred. 
Of course, the higher levels of aspiration in relation to the son of work which people might be expected to do was encouraged in Australia by 20 years of immigration from Europe. It surely became an accepted fact in Australian society that jobs on the assembly line at the Ford Motor Company of Australia Limited and jobs with the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board digging up roads were not jobs that young Australians went into. They were jobs that migrants wanted to do. For 20 years that became a fact of life in Australian society and surely has had an effect on the attitude of Australia's young people to this day in the regard they have for that type of work. 
-Change what? 
-I am terribly indebted to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  for his interjection because it shows that in spite of 3 questions and 10 minutes of this speech he still has no idea of what I am talking about. It might be my fault but I suspect that it is his. The point I am trying to make- I will put it again for  Senator Durack-  is simply this: With a higher level of education amongst young people in the Australian workforce and with changed parental pressures and values there is less incentive for people to go into jobs of a poorer manual kind.  Senator Durack  probably has not faced the problem in his family. But plenty of his colleagues may have faced it. I am sure that their commitment to the work ethic is not such that they would want to see their children digging up roads or working on the assembly line at Ford's. I am putting to you,  Senator Durack,  that that is the sort of aspiration which I believe you would have about this matter. I am submitting that  Senator Durack  would inculcate in his children exactly the same sort of aspirations that are shared by thousands of Australian parents and thousands of Australian young people about what they want to do in life and the sort of work they want to perform. 
I am led, by way of further illustration of that point, to ask a number of rhetorical questions about people voluntarily leaving their jobs. Is it not an inherent part of Liberal Party philosophy to encourage upward mobility in job aspiration? I would have felt very sure,  Senator Durack,  that it was. I feel quite sure it is written into the Liberal program. I feel quite sure that it is an integral part of the whole free enterprise philosophy. I would have thought that it was part of the rugged society philosophy that people should, in seeking to be free as  Mr Fraser  would put it, feel free to leave their jobs and feel free to try to get a better one. I feel those people would be encouraged in that aspiration by the continued promises of this Government that it will fix unemployment in this country. Those promises have been going on for 12 months now and show little promise in fact of being fulfilled. 
-Well, you and I might not. 
-Senator Cavanagh has struck me a blow which is mortal in its accuracy and truth. I left my job without realising that I was getting a much worse one. I am silly as far as that goes. I confess that readily. Honourable senators opposite are saying that people who are in very repetitive, menial jobs which do not satisfy them and which provide none ofthe satisfactions that we would hope people would be able to get from their working lives are stupid people. That is the conclusion I am led to draw from  Senator Durack  's interjection. Those people may be improvident or unwise. If they had listened to Ministers in the past year they would think that there was no risk involved because this Government was going to encourage consumer spending and encourage business confidence, everything would come right within a few weeks and everybody would be able to get a job just as they did in the 1950s and 1960s. 

 -As Senator Cavanagh reminds me, unemployment is a myth. That remark came from the mouth of a senior Minister upon whom people might be prone to rely in their ignorance. We cannot blame people for being ignorant about  Mr Eric  Robinson. After all, he is one of  Senator Durack  's colleagues. I hope the honourable senator is not blaming people for believing what  Mr Eric  Robinson said. That is one of the problems people have to face. People leave their jobs for all sorts of reasons but one of them is the aspirations which have been inculcated into them by the phoney promises of this Government and the repeated assurances which have been given regarding unemployment. 
I think we also have to ask ourselves whether it is not a fact- I think  Senator Lajovic  touched on this point- that the migrant work force over many years encouraged similar aspirations and beliefs in Australian young people. I wanted to speak about this subject not so much to make political scoring points- I promised  Senator Durack  a long saga on the question of people who voluntarily leave their jobs- but because I do not think it is a transitory problem which we are facing. I do not think unemployment is the sort of problem which can be fixed with the sort of credit squeeze jiggery pokery which the honourable senator's Party went on with when in government in the 1950s and 1960s. I think this matter is much more lasting and is a permanent factor of the Australian political scene. 
If we look at the unemployment situation and at the economic future of this country we surely see that the industries on which we will be dependent as a nation, such as mining and agriculture, are areas of small or declining labour content. I think we should face up to the fact that unemployment, for reasons such as that and because of its current structural nature, will be a very long term problem with frightening social consequences. It will not be fixed, as I said, by the economic tinkering which occurred in years gone by. In the long term it will be accommodatedas Canada which has been living with the problem for many years has found- only by intelligent manpower planning, by meeting the response of the aspirations of people for decent jobs and working conditions, by planning for industry, by job enrichment programs and things of that kind. More particularly, the problem will not be solved in the long term by sideswiping at unemployed people in the way which this Government has been doing and in a way which was most brilliantly articulated by  Senator Davidson  in a very carefully prepared speech which he gave in the Senate last week. This sort of characterisation of unemployment is dangerous in social terms. When dealing with it as a long term problem it is dangerous in human terms because of the people who are involved. This is a problem which must be faced up to. 
Nobody on this side of the Senate says that people in the community should be free to go on the dole in circumstances in which they refuse to take employment of a suitable kind when it is available. I say to  Senator Davidson,  who is trying to interject, that there is no support on this side of the Chamber for dole bludgers, but we would like some definition of what they are. We do not want all of the unemployed people in this country characterised in the way in which certain Government senators have tried to characterise them in the last few weeks. According to the figures produced by the Commonwealth Employment Service-they are the only ones available- those people who have been offered jobs and refused them to try to stay on the dole number one per cent. The figure has been found to be one per cent, after very serious endeavours- people who could be legitimately described as work shy in the sense in which Government senators have tried to characterise them. I conclude by saying that we cannot look at the problem of unemployment as it is in 1977- it is likely to be a long term problemwithout a little more compassionate understanding of the situation. This problem will continue to affect this society and all socio-economic groups in it 
-The cacophony of sound which we have heard from our colleague  Senator Wright  does not have very much to do with the legislation which is before the Senate. The Senate is debating the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Modification Bill 1977. That is a mouthful which simply means that machinery measures are being introduced to alter an Act of the Parliament so that ballot papers indicating a choice for a national song can be placed in the same ballot box as the ballot papers for the referenda which are to take place on 21 May. If  Senator Wright's  point was that there may be some confusion and that the national song might come out as  No, No, No, No  and the answer to some of the referenda as  Advance Australia Fair,  that would be a good point. But I did not apprehend that he actually made that point. There may have been confusion in his speech but that was not a confusion to which he drew attention. The purpose of this legislation is explained quite clearly in a statement made by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  although, in my view, it is not made clear in the legislation. The Minister stated: 
Concurrently with the referendums all electors are to have the opportunity to express on a voluntary basis their wishes as to the tune of the national song. The poll will be conducted on the basis that  God Save the Queen  is the national anthem to be played on regal and vice-regal occasions, but that on other occasions it will be appropriate for a national song to be played. 
I might interpolate there that the choice which is offered to the electors is, of course, Buckley's choice, because it is assumed that the national song for all regal and vice-regal occasions should be  God Save The Queen.  There is no choice offered in that respect. The statement goes on: 
For this purpose electors will be asked to express their preferences for the following tunes: 
God Save the Queen Advance Australia Fair Song of Australia Waltzing Matilda. 
The Government believes that it is desirable that all electors should be able to indicate their wishes as to which of these tunes should be adopted for our national song and the holding of the referendums to alter the Constitution on 2 1 May will provide an ideal opportunity for this purpose. 
It states further that electors in the Territories will have the opportunity to vote on the issue of the choice of a national song but on nothing else, which is a strange irony of the Australian Constitution as it stands at present. The expression which somewhat puzzles me in the Minister's statement and in the Bill itself - 
-The Attorney-General's statement- I do not want to do  Senator Withers  any injustice. I look forward to giving him his just desserts in due course. However, the words which bemuse me in the Bill itself and in the Minister's statement are 'for the purpose of choosing the tune for a national song'. I would have thought that there was some difference between the word 'tune' and the word 'song' and I hope that that is not going to be a problem which confuses the electors who vote on this issue on 2 1 May. The definition of tune', for example, is 'the giving forth of a musical sound '. There are other definitions of the expression 'the giving forth of a musical sound'. One of the definitions refers to the giving forth of a musical sound which has no relationship with normal speech. Thus we might have a statement from the  Clerk  of the Senate which could be described as a tune but not a song, or a statement from the  President  of the Senate which could likewise be described as a tune but not a song. 
The definition of 'song' is quite a different matter altogether. It is described as 'the act or art of singing, the result or effect of this being vocal music' and so on. It is also defined as 'the musical utterances of certain birds'. So, for example,  Senator Walters  when making a speech in this place, might give forth a song whereas the  Clerk  of the Senate would give forth a tune. This confusion should be of concern to the Senate because the confusion is there in the legislation and may be there for the electors when they vote on this issue on 21 May. It is my own pious hope that the Government's intention is that we have for an Australian national song, as it is called, a tune- that is to say, a song without words- and if we do that we will be the first country to have a national tune without words and without all the cant, hypocrisy and chauvinism which goes with the words of most national songs. 
Of course,  Senator. I  say with some regret, because it involves on my part a recognition that singing as a popular art form in public and in crowds is in decline. For example, we no longer live in the age of great Welsh choirs leading mass singing. We no longer live in the age, fortunately, of people at Numemburg singing in crowds  Deutschland Uber A lles.  We no longer live in the age realistically of people in Albert Hall in London singing Elgar's great song  Land of Hope and Glory.  That is a reality we have to face up to. There is a great danger in a country like ours singing a song which involves some form of respect to a mythical and unreal tradition or to some distant monarch in whom we have no particular interest. 
I refer now to the songs which we are asked to consider in this ballot that is to take place on 2 1 May. I venture the suggestion that few Australians know the words of  Song of Australia;  very few Australians know the words of  Advance Australia Fair,  quite a lot of Australians do not know the words of  Waltzing Matilda;  and quite a lot of Australians, a fact for which I am personally glad, do not know all the words of  God Save The Queen.  This is just as well when one looks at the words of those songs because they are all chauvinistic, pompous, inappropriate for a modern world and crassly vulgar in many verses. Look at the trouble which songs such as  Rule Britannia  brought the British Empire to and songs such as  Deutschland Uber Alles  brought the German people to, because of the emotive connotations which they carried and the sorts of things they represented in terms of national chauvinism. For those reasons I believe that we should come down very strongly in favour of a tune, as I have called it, rather than a song with words. This is an issue which should unite us as Australians rather than divide us. I make an appeal to  Senator Young,  who is laughing. I appeal to him as a semi-intelligent Liberal senator from South Australia to unite with me on this issue so that we might be the first country to have a national song without words. 
Let us look at the words of some of the songs in respect of which we are invited to make a choice. First of all, I turn to  Song of Australia.  I do not suppose that many honourable senators know the second verse of  Song of Australia.  It is: 
There is a land where honey flows, Where laughing corn luxuriant grows 
The Senate obviously- 
Land of myrtle and the rose, land of the rose, On hill and plain the clustering vine, Is gushing out with purple wine, Andcups arequaffed to thee and thine. 
Australia! Australia! Australia! 
That is a verse of a proposed national song which would divide this country right down the middle. I wonder what the Carlton United Brewery would have to say about excise duties on beer and wine when it heard played as our national song: 
On hill and plain the clustering vine, Is gushing out with purple wine, And cups are quaffed to thee and thine. 
That is the sort of thing which is right through  Song of A ustralia.  It goes on: 
There is a land where treasures shine, Deep in the dark unfathom 'd mine, For worshippers at Mammon's shrine, at Mammon's shrine Where gold lies hid, and rubies gleam, And fabled wealth no more doth seem The idle fancy of a dream. Australia! Australia! Australia! 
Just think about the implications of the expression 'Mammon's shrine'. Are we in the Senate who say prayers every day before we commence our deliberations to have a national song where we talk about worshipping at Mammon 's shrine. Of course, there is also reference to the mining industry but I do not want to get involved in that subject because it would be described as political and, as I said at the beginning, I want to make a non-political and uniting speech on this issue. The last verse says: 
And Freedom's sons the banner bear, No shackled slave can breathe the air 
That is a pretty poor outlook for prisoners in Australian Government prisons. I repeat: 
No shackled slave can breathe the air Fairest of Britain's daughters fair, Australia! Australia! Australia! 
That is an insult to the other nations of the Commonwealth. It is an insult to Canada, New Zealand and all the nations of the British Commonwealth when we describe ourselves as the fairest of Britain's daughters fair'. So much for  Song of Australia.  I believe that very few senators knew the words of that song. Let us look at the other suggested song,  Advance Australia Fair. 
-That is  Senator O'Byrne  's song. It is interesting to note, as he interjects, that that song was first published in a publication called  The School Magazine  on 1 September 1928. That was about when  Senator O'Byrne  was doing his matriculation for the fifth time. The words to this song go on in much the same sort of way as the words to the last song I mentioned. It states: 
When gallant Cook from Albion sail'd, To trace wide oceans o'er, 
True British courage bore him on, Till he landed on our shore. 
Then here he raised Old England 's flag, The standard of the brave, 
With all her faults we love her still, Britannia rules the wave 
In joyful strains then let us sing Advance Australia Fair. 
Again, there is this sort of insult to the other nations of the British Commonwealth and again we have the implication that Britannia rules the waves. The song goes in the next verse to say: 
Should foreign foe e'er sight our coast, Or dare a foot to land, 
We'll rouse to arms like sires of yore, To guard our native strand 
Britannia then shall surely know, Beyond wide oceans roll, Her sons in Fair Australia 's land Still keep a British soul In joyful strains then let us sing, Advance Australia Fair. 
To suggest in 1977 that all of us in Australia still keep a British soul is an insult to our ethnic communities which I hope  Senator Lajovic  will speak about in a moment. That is the second choice which we are offered as a national song. 
The third choice is  God Save the Queen.  We all know the first verse of  God Save the Queen,  but for goodness sake, let us have a look at what the third verse says. 
-I agree that the second verse is bad enough. But let us look at the third verse which I know appeals to many members of the Liberal Party of Australia and to this LiberalNational Country Party Government at this moment of history because it says: 
O Lord our God, arise, Scatter Her enemies And make them fall Confound their politics Frustrate their knavish tricks On Thee our hope we fix God save us all. 
I know that that is sung at the beginning of Liberal Party meetings every Wednesday morning and the singing is led by the present Treasurer,  Mr Lynch.  I repeat: 
Confound their politics Frustrate their knavish tricks On Thee our hope we fix God save us all. 
Of course, that appeals to certain sections of the community and particularly to the present Government. But we must ask ourselves in all reality in 1977 whether we can afford to have a song and words like that as a national song in a country with pretensions to being a modern political democracy. 
The fourth song is  Waltzing Matilda.  It is a song about which I share some sentiment with the present Prime Minister. I suspect that it is the only sentiment which we have in common. Let me tell the Senate something of the origins of the song  Waltzing Matilda.  I quote from the  Australian Encyclopaedia  where it discusses the origins of the song  Waltzing Matilda: 
On the song copy of 'Waltzing Matilda' published by Allan &amp; Co. Pty. Ltd, Melbourne, the tune is attributed to Marie Cowan. She appears to have been the wife of a Sydney tea-merchant, who arranged the setting for her husband to distribute in the late 1 890s as an advertisement for his tea. 
Honourable senators will recall the words of the song indicate that once a jolly swagman camped by a billabong and he boiled his tea by the billabong - 
-I am sorry. He boiled his billy by the billabong.  Senator Maunsell  is more familiar with this than I am. The  Australian Encyclopaedia  continues: 
The words used in the song copy differ considerably from those published by Paterson. It is probably that the alterations came about gradually as the song was passed from singer to singer in the outback and, in the main, they have improved the lyric by making it more racy and easier to sing. 
The lyrics given below are those of the song version and are reproduced here by arrangement with Allan &amp; Co. Pty. Ltd: 
The only point I make about this is that the references to  Waltzing Matilda  are not offensive in any way to any section of the community. Nobody has any violent opposition to tea drinkers. Nobody has any violent opposition to tea merchants and all honourable senators should have more confidence and more concern that we should be known internationally as a nation of tea drinkers rather than a nation of wine drinkers. We should be known as a nation with its own peculiar culture and certainly the words of  Waltzing Matilda  are peculiar to foreign visitors to this country. We should be known not as a people which has a national song filled with the sort of chauvinism of the other 3 songs which I have mentioned. 
I think it is very important that we draw a distinction between the 4 songs in question and that in relation to all of them, when we go on the hustings on this vitally important matter- important compared with the other referenda questions on 21 May- we are advocating a national song without words. If I may indicate a personal preference at this stage, if it has not emerged earlier, that song should be  Waltzing Matilda. Waltzing Matilda  does have important historical connotations. 
-That is right. As  Senator O'Byrne  interjects, 'The squatter on his thoroughbred'. In a sense, although this matter unites us and we are all concerned about it, we all come to the Senate representating different traditions in Australian political life- the swagman, whom  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator O'Byrne  could represent, and the squatter mounted on his thoroughbred. There are not many of them in this chamber. But there are in the other place. They are represented in the 2 main political streams of Australian political life. I think it is important we reflect thatelement in the national song we have. The point I am trying to make is that none of these words really stands up in any of these songs. 
There is one other matter to which I wish to refer. I think it is very important in deciding what Australia's national song should be- there have been numerous attempts to do this- to consider some of the history of the matter. I refer briefly to the  Australian Encyclopaedia  on that question. It states: 
Although the official national anthem of Australia has always been 'God Save the King (or Queen)', many efforts have been made to find a substitute, or a subsidiary, more directly expressive of Australian sentiment. 
I hope that is the exercise we will be about on 2 1 May. I continue to read: 
One of the earliest attempts seems to have been made in 1826 by JohnDunmore Lang(q.6.), who published an 'Australian Anthem' and an 'Australian Hymn' in his Aurora Australis. The first anthem produced complete with music was probably 'Advance Australia', described as 'The Australian National Anthem '. 
It was first performed in the Sydney Town Hall- 
The poetic merit of the words is indicated by the following lines: 
Hail to thee, Happy Queen, sweetest that earth has seen, Dear to thy country as chief to his clan. 
They are the sort of words that could have been uttered by  Sir Robert  Menzies as long ago as 1955. It continues: 
Although this song was given a cordial reception by the people of Sydney, apparently it was soon forgotten, for a few years later the Sydney council of the Australasian League decided to conduct a competition for a national anthem. The judges' decision made in the following year, was attacked and their choice did not live long. 
Nathaniel L. Kentish, who called himself 'The Amateur Poet Laureate of Victoria', also issued in 185 1 a national anthem, on a broadsheet without music as did W. S. Jenkins in 1858. In 1854 S. Nelson, a visiting English singer, composed a national anthem, but his effort, too, failed to gain popularity, In 1 860 Carl Linger of South Australia composed 'The Song of Australia' which had a more lasting success  . . During the 1890s a wave of Australian nationalism developed; many patriotic poems were written, but no anthem set to music was very successful. 
The article goes on to record further competitions and states that in 1908 a national competition was held for a national song. The prize was 2 guineas. 
I am reminded by  Senator Douglas  McClelland that C. J. Dennis took part in that competition. The article continues: 
A special prize of one guinea was awarded to C. J. Dennis for his 'Real Australian Australaise', which he appears to have submitted as a joke. The  Bulletin  said his entry was the only satisfactory battle song submitted and was quite Australian. 
I will recite it, senator. The song is to be sung to the tune of 'Onward, Christian Soldiers'. I gird my loins in anticipation of a point of order from  Senator Walters.  I think that the only way that the song can properly be recited is if I use the word 'bloody'. It is said that the verse and chorus of the song are to have the blank spaces filled in according to taste. I do not know what the taste of the Senate is, but if honourable senators listen to the song as I read it, interpolating the word 'bloody', one might get the feeling that the taste of the author involved some other word than the word 'bloody' which more satisfactorily fits the gaps which are left. The song is this: 
Fellers of Australier, Blokes an ' coves an ' coots, Shift yer bloody carcases, Move yer bloody boots, Gird yer bloody loins up, Git yer bloody gun, Set the bloody enermy, An ' watch the blighters run. 
The chorus is: 
Git a bloody move on, Have some bloody sense, Learn the bloody art of Self de-bloody- fence. 
At the time that was seriously suggested as a national song for this country. I put it to the Senate that though those words seem funny, if one examines the words of 'Song of Australia' and Advance Australia Fair' and so on in 1977 in a serious sense they are just as silly and just as funny. One other matter in the article to which I want to refer is this: 
On 1 1 April 1 933 J. T. Lang, Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, rebuked the people at a gathering at Lidcombe, New South Wales, for not removing their hats . . . when a band played 'Advance Australia Fair'. 
It continues: 
Lang claimed that 'Advance Australia Fair' was not a song or a hymn, but a national anthem, and should be respected as such; he did not say, however, who had made the song the national anthem of Australia. 
So just as in 1977 and 1973, I think it was, the politicians tried to make the national anthem of Australia so J. T. Lang was doing it in 1 933. 
The article goes on to say that there was another competition in 1951 and that the winning entry was 'This Land of Mine' written by John Wheeler. The photocopy from which I am reading is somewhat blurred. I am hoping to hear from  Senator Wheeldon  in a moment. I am surprised, if he wrote it, to see that it was written in 1951. 1 thought that 'This Land of Mine' was in fact written by  Senator John  Wheeldon when he was Minister for Social Security in 1975. The article states that the song by John Wheeler was set to music by Henry Krips but unfortunately no official sanction has been given for this work. The article continues: 
The question of a national anthem was raised persistently prior to the holding of the Olympic Games in Melbourne in 1956. The two songs most energetically advocated were Advance Australia Fair' and 'Waltzing Matilda'. However, in a speech in the House of Representatives in May 1955 the Prime Minister, R. G. Menzies, reviewed the whole matter of the Australian national anthem and stated quite definitely that there was only one, 'God Save the Queen', adding that his Government had no intention of substituting any other. 
Just as  Senator Wright  pointed out that the Fraser Government changed its views about the referendums for 2 1 May, so  Sir Robert  Menzies and his successors in this Government changed their views about the national song for Australia and in 1977 recognised that the people of Australia should have a choice and not have that tribute to a distant monarch imposed on them as a national song as it has been in the past. 
I again stress the importance and my own very firmly held view that we should advocate in the campaign which is to culminate on 21 May the introduction of a song without words for Australia and that the preferable music- I am in dispute with my leader,  Senator Wriedt,  about this- for such a song because of its evocation of a genuine Australian tradition is 'Waltzing Matilda'. We should go forth from this place and campaign on that basis on this very important issue together with the other important issues which are to be decided on 2 1 May. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the fact that it was the practice for many years of the now defunct Australian Broadcasting Control Board to conduct public surveys of attitudes to television. The Minister will no doubt recall that the questionnaires which comprised those surveys for a number of years contained questions relating to the control of advertising and other matters on commercial television. Is the Minister aware that those surveys showed that 75 per cent to 85 per cent of Australian people interviewed favoured some control over the amount and content of advertising on commercial television? I ask the Minister: In the current survey which is being conducted into attitudes to television has the question in the questionnaire relating to the control of advertising been deleted? Was the question relating to the control of advertising deleted at the instigation of the new  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal? In explaining his action, has the  chairman  of the Tribunal said that the question in relation to control of advertising was confusing to people? If so, how did the  chairman  of the Tribunal arrive at that conclusion? 
I shall speak briefly on this matter because the points I wished to put to the Senate have already been adequately and eloquently put by my colleague  Senator Wheeldon.  I wish to take up some of the matters which have been raised by various speakers on the Government side. I felt terribly sad to hear  Senator Withers  give that weary, stale, flat and unprofitable speech about the Government's attitude to the issues raised by the proposal moved by the Opposition and the issues raised in the amendment which has been circulated in the Senate in the last few minutes. I think that the Government's attitude to the problems of East Timor right from the beginning has been: 'If we sit on our hands and do nothing the problem will go away'. 

 Senator Scott, in attempting to rationalise that hand-sitting position, asked all sons of rhetorical questions about why Australia did not do something about what is happening in Laos, Cambodia and other countries as though this was vitally relevant to a problem which is occurring right on our own doorstep. With respect to  Senator Scott,  that is the difference. The fact is that the problem of Timor is 400 miles from Darwin. This problem is different in terms of responsibility in our neighbourhood.  Senator Scott  not only invited us to see the problem in a global context of moral responsibility but also insisted that we should try to develop a mature and adult relationship with Indonesia. I would have thought that that is precisely what this Government has not done in the last few months. 
There is nothing mature and adult about a relationship in which one so-called adult goes out of his way, falling over backwards, to make sure that, on any issue, he does not offend the other adult in the relationship. There is something extremely childish about what happened in Jakarta a week or so ago when the Australian Ambassador was called before  Mr Malik  and told: 'If you do not lay off your criticisms of what is happening in East Timor, if you do not stop these criticisms occurring in your country, there will be demonstrations against your Embassy in Jakarta and, what is more, we will raise the question of your moral responsibility in connection with your behaviour towards the Aboriginal people over the last 200 years'. That son of threat does not seem to me to be part of an adult relationship. I do not know what  Senator Scott  thinks an adult relationship is but that is not my concept of a mature and adult relationship. 
It was also very sad to hear  Senator Scott  trying to make rather cheap political points about East Timor. I said in the Senate 9 months agoand I repeat it now- that the Labor Government made mistakes in judgment about East Timor. There is no doubt about that fact. It made mistakes and errors of judgment but in a somewhat different context from the sort of situation with which this present Government is confronted. To try to make a point-scoring exercise out of that situation at this time seems to me to be trying to ignore the whole issue raised quite specifically in terms of the motion moved by  Senator Gietzelt  and the amendment which has been circulated. That really is symptomatic of the Government's attitude towards the East Timor problem. It is exactly the same sort of approach as its current attitude towards unemployment. Unemployment, with which it has grappled for 1 8 months, suddenly becomes a myth. The Government has been wrestling with a spook for all this time. East Timor, with which the Government has not been grappling for 18 months, has suddenly become something that it does not want to talk about any longer and the Senate, which can throw out governments in Australia, cannot even set up a committee for fear of upsetting the adult and mature relationship to which  Senator Scott  referred. The Senate cannot even set up a committee to inquire into matters like Australian assistance to the East Timorese people, Australian policy concerning refugees, the reuniting of families from East Timor and the disappearance of Australian journalists in East Timor. The mighty Senate which can topple governments here cannot even set up a committee to do that, according to the views of  Senator Scott  and  Senator Withers. 
I support holding such an inquiry and the proposed terms of the inquiry to which I referred a moment ago. The terms are not really terribly far ranging in their consequences. They are not terribly far ranging in the information which they seek. I hope that the Senate will agree to set up a select committee to inquire into these matters. Only 2 days ago Australia was accused in the United States of America of not having done anything about this matter. Congressmen asked: Why has not Australia set up an inquiry?' That is a very good question. The answer should be sent back by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to the United States: 'Australia has not set up an inquiry because we want mature and adult relationships with Indonesia and we do not want to offend the Indonesians in any way'. That is the honest answer which should be given but it has not been given. Instead we get all the glib sorts of answers which have been given in the Senate tonight. 
I dislike quoting my own speeches but 9 months ago in this Senate when we were discussing this question of East Timor I said in a speech that the key issues with which we could really be concerned were the issues of humanitarian aid and communication with East Timor. They are still the key issues. The great tragedy of East Timor is that people outside East Timor do not know the correct figures as to how many people have been killed. I agree; we just do not know. That is a tragedy. Whether the figure be 10 000, 2000, 60 000 or any of the other figures which are being bandied about the fact is that we do not know. One of the reasons why we do not know is the connivance of this Government in its mature and adult relationship with Indonesia in stopping radio communications with East Timor. 
I take your point,  Senator Bonner.  It was both governments. This is more serious than the silly little arguments between 2 political parties in Australia. The reason why we do not know the correct figures is the failure of communication. There is the whole area of humanitarian need in terms of medical care and matters of that kind about which there is just no information. That again,  Senator Scott,  is what makes this matter different from other situations and different again because it is happening right on our border. I find the Australian psyche extraordinary in that we can go overboard saying what great people we are because of the gifts we gave to Bangladesh, Biafra and places like that and what great and wonderful people we are for the door-knock appeals for Biafra. But what about what is happening in East Timor? It is no different in human terms. The reason why we do not go overboard about that situation and say what a great people we are and indulge in doorknocks and that type of activity is the simple fact that governments in this country have put the wet blanket over the whole issue and have tried to obscure it from public discussion; people have co-operated in that activity. That is the tragedy of East Timor which we ought to face up to. That is another reason why we ought to appoint the Senate select committee proposed in this motion. 
If we go back to the debate of 9 months ago, we find that exactly the same problems were being talked about and exactly the same issues were important but nothing has been done about them. It was quite possible then for anyone with imagination to predict that the problem of East Timor would not go away as the Government has hoped, and probably as the Labor Government hoped. The hope was that it would just disappear, that the problem would be cleaned up in one night by the Indonesian Army going there, that there would be a deathly silence for a few days as there was in Goa, and then it would all be over: And we need not bother about it any more. We could then get back to talking about the football, the cricket and the size of the deficit. But that has not happened. That result is something which I believe anybody could have predicted. 
What is the situation now? Briefly I wish to refer the Senate to an interview on  AM  this morning. I quote from the transcript of the interview with Congressman Fraser in the United States relating to a congressional committee hearing in America. In answer to a question Congressman Fraser is reported as answering in these terms: 
Congressman Fraser: While the United States has been a principal military supplier to the Government of Indonesia for the past decade, there appears now to be substantial evidence that United States military equipment was used by the Indonesian forces in East Timor. 
Ray Martin: Has the State Department admitted that? 
Congressman Fraser: Well implicitly they have because we've discovered now, to our surprise, that is those of us in the House, that last year, the United States Government suspended new commitments to Indonesia for a period of 6 months, apparently because our Government believes that our military equipment was being used in East Timor. 
It is worth noting that there has been no corresponding action by the Australian Government. The transcript continues as follows: 
Ray Martin: Is it normal though for the State Department or the Pentagon to cut off military equipment without telling Congress? 
Congressman Fraser: No, it 's very unusual. 
Ray Martin: If they are admitting that American weapons were used, the Hercules, or M 1 6s were used, where does that leave you now in terms of violation of the arms agreement? 
Congressman Fraser: Well I suppose the recourse is essentially a political one. 
In a later part of the interview Congressman Fraser referred, as  Senator Scott  and others have mentioned, to the figures relating to the number of people killed. That does not seem to me to be very much to the point. There were differences of opinion about the matter. But then, referring to the problem of East Timor, Congressman Fraser said: 
Well I think the most important thing we may do here is simply elevate the visibility of this issue. 
That is the point in having a Senate select committee. We in Australia should be prepared to elevate the visibility of the issue. That is all that is really intended by the proposal to set up a select committee. The purpose in raising the visibility of the issue is, Congressman Fraser states: 
This may lead, this new administration, with I think a more sensitive concern about human rights, to look into the matter more carefully. That is what I hope might happen. If they do indeed believe there is a continuing problem of some magnitude, rather than get into a confrontation with the Indonesian Government, perhaps in concert with other nations which are important to Indonesia, there might be a sitting down and talking out of this matter with the Indonesian Government and try to come to some sensible resolution of the  probelm 
Later on the Congressman makes another interesting comment. It relates to an interview with refugees about alleged atrocities in Timor. Later on the announcer makes this comment: 
Committee Chairman, Congressman Don Fraser, thanked the Australian official - 
That is  Mr Dunn-  for coming so far to testify and for what he called his 'valuable information'. But other congressmen wondered aloud why the Australian Parliament had not held its own inquiry.  Mr Dunn  suggested that Timor and Indonesia were perhaps a little too close and too sensitive. 
Let us face up to the reality of that. Let us appoint a committee of the Senate to look into the matter. It is not an issue about which we can afford to be too sensitive. Its not an issue about which we can continue to sit on our hands hoping that the problem will go away. In terms of Australian sovereignty, it is not an issue in which we can continue to raise our arms in front of our eyes, hoping that the Indonesians will not see us. I think that the sort of behaviour which has gone on in so-called diplomatic circles between our 2 countries in the last week or so is bordering on the pathetic in terms of the Australian Government's stance. I think we are fools to believe that if we condone that sort of behaviour now over an issue like this, we will never run into that sort of behaviour again. Of course, one show of weakness invites further shows of strength from the other party in what  Senator Scott  is pleased to call a mature relationship. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister at the weekend and the answer given to  Senator Keeffe  earlier today. If the  Deputy  Prime  Minister's statement about the effects of devaluation on inflation is correct, what estimate has the Government made of the likely rate of inflation when the full effects of the devaluation have come into effect? Does that estimate coincide with the estimate given by the Opposition spokesman on defence? If so, what future measures does the Government intend taking to offset the effects of this devaluation on the price control mechanism ? 
I again ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator  Durack),  in view of  Senator Wright's  amendment and the discussion which has taken place since I last directed this question to him; is he now prepared to move that the Committee reports progress and seeks leave to sit at another time? I ask the Minister that because he indicated in answer to the earlier questions that he was not persuaded at that time- that is the expression he used- to accede to the request. It would be most unfortunate if  Senator Wright's  amendment which has obviously been so painstakingly drafted was not considered adequately by the Committee. I am serious in that sense. Very short notice was given of the amendment. It was presented a few minutes ago. I think the Committee should be entitled to take that course and that the Minister should move such a motion. 
-In view of the comments made by  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Wright,  will the Minister consider adopting the course of the Senate reporting progress on this Bill and seeking leave to sit at another time in relation to it. In the final stage of the second reading debate, the Minister made some comments that can be described only as derogatory about honourable senators. There is some genuine concern about the points which have been raised by  Senator Wheeldon  in relation to clause 3 of the Bill and by other honourable senators in relation to other clauses of the Bill. It may be that this is legislation which the Government regards as being of the utmost urgency but I should not have thought so. I should have thought it was the function of this chamber to try to arrive at the best possible legislation on a matter on which there is no violent opposition about the principles. I invite the Minister to advise the Senate whether he is prepared to take that course. I assure him that if he does it will receive the co-operation of the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer the Minister to promises made in 1975 by the present Prime Minister to retain Medibank in its existing form and to support the system of wage indexation. In reminding the Minister of those promises, I ask him: How does the Government feel about the comments made this morning by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on the Government's economic strategy? Secondly, in the event of a projected increase in industrial unrest arising from the decision given this morning and in the light of the promises made in December 1975, what steps does the Government intend to take to deal with any increased industrial unrest which may arise from the decision? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Law Courts (Sydney) Bill. The history of this matter has been set out very fully in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack).  It is a matter that has been going on for some years, in the time of the Liberal Government of  Mr McMahon,  under the Labor Government and again under the present Government. In indicating that we do not oppose the Bill, I draw the attention of the Senate to a speech made yesterday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Uren)  in relation to the Bill. He simply made the point, in connection with Commonwealth buildings throughout Australia, that perhaps more attention should be given by governments to the impact of those buildings on the environment in which they are situated and also to the quality of those buildings. It is a point which is not strictly relevant to the terms of this Bill. But I think it is a point which was made very well and which should be borne in mind by the Government in its consideration of future legislation and with regard to future policy considerations of this kind. Apart from that comment, as I indicated we do not oppose the Bill. We hope it has a speedy passage. 
-The Opposition opposes the Crimes (Foreign Incur:sions and Recruitment) Bill. I should indicate at the outset that, in expressing that opposition to it, the burden of the Opposition's criticism will be taken by my colleagues  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wheeldon  both of whom have far more experience of foreign incursions than I have. I believe that, for that reason, they are much more capable of dealing with the subject matter than I would be. In saying that the Opposition opposes the Bill, I draw the attention of the Senate to numerous statements made by the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Those statements, which have been referred to publicly, have expressed the view that it is undesirable for Australians to engage in foreign mercenary activities. This view has been expressed by both Ministers at various times. In a sense, it points to the criticism which the Opposition makes of the Bill. 
When I say that the Opposition opposes the Bill, I should point out that we are not saying that Australia will be worse off as a result of having this legislation. In fact, we think that the situation with which the Bill seeks to deal will result in this country being better off than it has been in the past. It will avoid all those situations which occurred in the period of the last Liberal Government when Croatian terrorists were training at Healesville and other places. Of course, that was a source of embarrassment from time to time even to Ministers in that Government. Certainly, it was a source of embarrassment to the Australian people as a whole. 

 -As Senator Lajovic has raised the point, I state that I thought  Senator Murphy's  incursion, if I can use that word again, into that area of political activity in Australia had a very salutary effect on the sorts of activities to which I referred. 
Of course, as much as  Senator Missen  might attempt to divert the thrust of that remark, if I may use the word 'thrust' in the context of a debate on incursions, by reference to ASIO, the point I seek to make to the Senate is quite clear.  Senator Murphy's  activities were salutory and something of that kind was necessary in terms of establishing the position of the Australian Government in relation to that type of activity in Australia. For the benefit of  Senator Lajovic  I say that I am making no comments about the sorts of political judgments which might be made about that sort of activity. My comments are simply about the general undesirability of any activity of that kind taking place in this country. Of course, in a sense, that is the purpose of this legislation. 
In the light of statements by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, the Opposition really feels that the Bill does not go far enough. I will illustrate that criticism in a very simple way. The main purpose of the Bill is to prevent the training and recruitment of intended mercenaries in Australia who might be engaged subsequently in incursions against foreign governments. I think the point is well made that it would be more desirable if the Bill were directed a little more widely to preventing incursions or the recruitment and training for such incursions whether or not they be against the government of another country. I think the point can be well illustrated by giving one example. Supposing honourable senators opposite for reasons of ideology and expediency suddenly became attracted to the political ideology of  President  Amin of Uganda and decided that a contingent from the Senate would be trained in the Woden Valley and sent to Uganda to support the government of Uganda. I would have thought that while that sort of activity may have appealed to honourable senators on the Government side, it would become something of an embarrassment for the people of Australia. For that reason we make the very simply point that activities of this kind generally, whether they be against governments or whether they be in support of governments, should be proscribed by the legislation. 
The other point I want to make very briefly relates to the provisions of clause 9 of the Bill which, as I read it, allows the Attorney-General to specify circumstances, as it were, in which the provisions of the Bill would not apply. That seems to me to be a very dangerous activity. It seems to me that governments have to make decisions about whether they want to interfere in the affairs of other countries by way of armed incursions and that it is the responsibility of governments to do that as governments and as elected representatives of the Australian people. I think it would be undesirable for this provision to be exercised by an Attorney-General in any government in any circumstances which I can at the moment foresee. So some criticism of that provision of the Bill is offered. 
As I said, the burden of the debate on this issue, about which some of my colleagues feel very passionately no doubt, will be taken by  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wheeldon.  I do not want to dwell too much on the matter except to reiterate something of our past experience in relation to it. There is the past experience of Katanga, Angola and, more recently, Rhodesia. No doubt Australians have been involved in each of those countries, although they may not necessarily have been trained or recruited in this country. I suspect that both sides of the Parliament desire that the sorts of activities that went on in those countries should not be allowed to be repeated in this country. 
I see that  Senator Wheeldon,  who has very strong views on this, has entered the chamber. I believe he is the author of a thesis relating to it. I think the thesis was called 'The Influence of von Schlaffen on the Soviet Military Strategy in the 1950s'. 
I apologise to the honourable senator; I did him a grave injustice. I think it was his criticism of the thesis on the influence of von Schlieffen on the Soviet military strategy in the 1950s which I read. I misinterpreted that and I apologise to him. I believe  Senator Wheeldon  has an important contribution to make in this debate in view of his previous experience and writings on the subject. 
With respect, that suggestion falls into the same sort of position as  Senator Wright's  amendment. It might be that during consideration of other clauses members of the Committee will wish to consider clause 6 and the amendment which  Senator Wright  has moved as they relate to clause 9, for example. I appreciate the attempt by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  to facilitate the progress of the Bill, but it might turn out to be a glib device, with respect, which does not achieve the substantial purpose about which some senators are concerned. I indicate that the Opposition would be opposed to that view. I noticed when I rose that other senators also rose to speak on the substance of the amendment  Senator Wright  has moved. In that situation, it would be a precipitous course to proceed immediately to other clauses, I should have thought. 
I have twice invited the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  to move that the Committee report progress and seek leave to consider the Bill again. The Minister has, I think properly in view of developments, indicated that he will take that course. We appreciate the suggestion made by the Minister to refer the Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and 
Legal Affairs. It has been a matter of some concern to individual senators. The Opposition will support that course and we will take any steps necessary to achieve that end. 
I want to make a brief statement in reference to what  Senator Carrick  has said on this matter. Firstly, I endorse the matter of principle that has been raised by my colleague  Senator Wheeldon,  in relation to radio station 3CR and I respect the remarks of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on the same subject matter. I think that I should correct him on one matter. That was the suggestion that station 3CR has some affiliation with or indeed, receives support from the Australian Labor Party. To illustrate the point I want to make about that, I would invite the Minister to listen to the broadcasts of 3CR on one or two occasions and particularly to the programs which are devoted to the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr R.  J. Hawke. If he had any doubts about the station's connection or affiliation with the Labor Party, he should listen to those programs. I am sure that would put to rest any doubts he has. I wanted to establish that because I appreciate that the Minister put his remarks in a tentative way. There is no association with the Labor Party in Victoria. 
-The previous  speaker, Senator Tehan,  had one key theme in the speech which he made to the Senate about the tertiary education legislation and that was, as he expressed it, the need to see where we are going in education. Having listened to his speech, I understand his deep-felt need and his confusion about where we are going in education and the confusion which might now be apparent in the Senate as a result of the speech which he just made. 
The Senate is debating the Tertiary Education Commission Bill. As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said in his second reading speech, the purpose of the Bill is to bring about greater co-ordination in the area of tertiary education in Australia. Currently we have a Universities Commission, a Commission on Advanced Education, a Technical and Further Education Commission and, outside the post-secondary area, the Schools Commission. It is proposed by this legislation to establish, in effect, one overall tertiary education commission with separate councils dealing with each of the areas of postsecondary education. The Opposition agrees with that course. We agree with the need expressed by the Minister for Education for coordination in the tertiary area. But we do have some qualifications about the structure, particularly having regard to the area of technical and further education and to the needs which we see in that area in its important and unique position in the Australian situation at the present time. But we wish the Commission well and hope that it will achieve many of the results which the Minister expresses in his second reading speech to be its intention. 
As I said, the reasons for the establishment of this Commission were set out quite clearly in the Minister's second reading speech. It is a comprehensive, thoughtful and very thorough speech which displays an open mind about the issues of tertiary education. The fact that it displays an open mind suggests to me it was not written by the Minister because the Minister's approach to educational problems has been rather that of displaying an open mouth. Whilst he takes justifiable pride in this legislation, I found it somewhat galling to see that at about the same time as this legislation has come before the Senate the Minister issued a statement-on 5 April this year -regarding the achievements in education by this Government. He said this sort of thing and this is the authentic voice of the Australian Minister for Education: 
There is a significant story of achievement to tell. In a time of overall economic restraint the Federal Government has given education top priority. We have inherited some difficult problems. In its last Budget the Whitlam Government cut the 1976 expenditure of the four education commissions by a total of $105 million. It set aside the principle of triennial funding and froze student allowances at the June 1974 price level. It left a legacy of juvenile unemployment of a level unique in Australian history. To reverse these trends has been no easy task but we have done so. 
That is the authentic voice of the Minister, which is not reflected in his second reading speech in relation to the Tertiary Education Commission Bill. I shall make some comments about what the Minister had to say in that statement issued on 'E Day', as it was called, that is, on 5 April 1 977. He refers to the expenditure cuts made by the Hayden Budget of 1975. He knows that he is confronted at this time in 1977 with the possibility of expenditure cuts of a quite considerable order in education. No doubt in the next few months he will be telling us about all that. He knows why the cuts were made in 1975. He knows that those cuts were made on the basis of the most massive expenditure in education that this country has ever known by a Federal Government. 
-Of course I admit we made the cuts. They are there for honourable senators to see. 
-If the honourable senator is looking for nit-picking admissions I am prepared to make them. The point I am making is that the Minister is not. The fact of the matter is that any cuts which were made were made in that context. The last part of the comments made by the Minister which I quoted is the most interesting of all because he refers to the setting aside of the principle of triennial funding, which is not really a very honest approach to the past situation in educational funding in Australia. He referred to a legacy of juvenile unemployment of a level unique in Australia. 
-The honourable senator should not get excited; he should just listen for a minute. The Minister referred to a level of juvenile unemployment, which he described as unique. This came from a Minister who was a supporter of the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1968 when the then Treasurer boasted about this country being unique in the world in not having a manpower policy. He said we did not need a manpower policy, that we leave those things to market forces.  Senator Carrick,  as an ardent supporter of that Government, went along with that sort of policy for years. In 1977 he seeks to score a point against a Labor government about the level of youth unemployment. If he thinks this Government is going to fix up the level of youth unemployment in this country by the measures which are being taken now and will be taken in the next year, or the year after, or the year after that, with the greatest respect to him, he has another think coming and so does  Senator Lewis. 
I draw attention to these matters because it seems to me, as it were, that the Minister speaks with a forked tongue about the situation in which he found education. Let us look at the history of the matter. Let us go back a little further than perhaps the present Government would like to look at the history of the matter. The suggestion of a post-secondary or tertiary education commission for education was first made by the Martin Committee in 1964. Since the Martin Committee made that recommendation in 1964 there have been 10 years of Liberal-Country Party government in Australia: 8 years before the Labor Government came to office and nearly 2 years since. In all that time the suggestions of the Martin Committee had not been taken up. They were never taken up by the LiberalCountry Party governments between 1964 and 1972 and they are only now being realised in 1977 as a result of initiatives taken by the Labor Government. In that period there were 10 years of Liberal-Country Party government and 3 years of interrupted Labor Party government. It took 3 interrupted years of Labor government to establish the Schools Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and Further Education Commission. 
It took a Labor government to raise the needs of each of those major areas of education to issues of public importance and the responsibility of a national government in this country. None of those things were ever heard of before a Labor government came to power.  Senator Carrick  can make carping political points in his ego statement- nit-picking points- about the 3 years of Labor government and the Labor Government's record on education, but the record over the past 10 or 12 years stands quite clear. There is the record of inactivity of LiberalCountry Party governments, the record of activity in the establishment of these new commissions and in acting upon the establishment of those commissions by the Labor Government, which established new education priorities accompanied, as they were, by massive Federal funding. It is a source of regret that the Minister does not show a little more generosity of spirit in introducing into this chamber the Tertiary Education Commission Bill which, of course, really is only possible in its present form as a result of the establishment of two post-secondary commissions by the Labor Government and the priorities and initiatives established by that Government. 
I said that we had some qualifications about this legislation. The Minister quite properly stressed the need for co-ordination at the Federal level on education priority assessment and the level of funding. He seems, with respect- as I suppose we all have- to have grasped in a slow dawning way the simplistic point that in education, as in everything else, the kneebone is connected to the thighbone. The only difficulty I have about that is that in establishing the Tertiary Education Commission doubts still seem to be raised by other activities of this Government as to whether it really understands the relationship between the various areas of education. I hope that in the course of this debate the Minister will explain to the Senate what is the precise relationship between the Tertiary Education Commission and the Williams inquiry into education and training. I suspect that the real relationship is that the Minister, conscientious as I believe him to be, and his Department, in establishing the Tertiary Education Commission as it was to be established by the Labor Government in a slightly less magnified form, are following a consistent line. But if one compares the terms of reference of the inquiry into education and training to be conducted by Professor 
Williams, one finds that there seems to be a very real confusion between the functions of the Tertiary Education Commission and the functions of that inquiry. For example, the terms of reference of that inquiry state: 
The inquiry will be concerned specifically with . . . 
a ) the provision of educational facilities and services: 
the overall pattern of institutions and courses including their objectives; 
the responsibilities of State and Commonwealth authorities in relation to the nature and location of institutions 
the magnitude of the provision, including the desirable balance between sectors; 
the relationship of the provision to the community and individual needs and preferences. 
One can go on. The functions of the Tertiary Education Commission are spelt out in clause 7 of the Bill which states: 
The functions of the Commission are- 
to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to- 
matters in connexion with the gram by the Commonwealth of financial assistance to a State for and in respect of universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education institutions in the State; 
matters in connexion wilh the provision by the Commonwealth of financial assistance for and in respect of universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education institutions -  and so on. I would have thought that none of those recommendations would have been made by the Tertiary Education Commission without reference to precisely the same son of things which the Williams Committee is going to inquire into. One suspects that what has in fact happened is that the Minister, as the responsible Minister, has set up the Tertiary Education Commission to fulfil these functions but earlier this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in one of his knee-jerk, off the top of his head, responses to what he saw as a social need in our community and something which something ought to be done about, with that characteristic degree of ad-hockery which characterised the prices and wages freeze last week set up the Williams inquiry to inquire into the sort of matters to which I have just referred and which are set out in the Williams inquiry terms of reference. Even today one finds the Prime Minister making what is apparently regarded as an important statement on science and technology and not, in any way, relating that statement to the sort of things which the Tertiary Education Commission, one hopes, will be about or the sort of things which the Williams inquiry may well be about. It is the same Government introducing the Tertiary Education Commission Bill which last year proposed to abolish the Australian Industrial Design Council and then, in response to pressure, changed its mind about the abolition of the Australian Industrial Design Council. It did so with no apparent understanding at any stage of the relationship of the function of that body to education and the technological situation in which this community now finds itself. There seems to be no understanding of the relationships between these various statements of the Prime Minister and the statements of the Minister for Education in this House. 
I should like to refer to an editorial which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on 27 August last year which, I think, sets in context the importance of this issue and the lack of planning which has characterised federal governments in this country for many years. When I say ' many years ' I go back to the time of the Martin Committee's report in 1964. 1 am referring, as I said earlier, to 10 years of Liberal Government. The  Canberra Times  stated: 
Apart from inertia on the part of the planning authorities, the lack of any rational co-ordination between all sectors of tertiary education, the neglect of careers guidance and the absence of close links between TAFE and the secondary schools, and the misplaced emphasis on the value of university degrees, there has been an unforgivable failure to understand and constantly bear in mind that the creation of the wealth upon which all the people in Australia depend for their livelihood and affluence is primarily the work of the skilled tradesman and the primary producer. Without its wool, wheat, sugar, meat, milk, timber, steel, fruit -  and so on-  and other products Australia could not support in aboveaverage comfort its tens of thousands of academics, public servants, politicians, entertainers, and market speculators. 
That reference, of course, to the lack of coherent planning is not a reference which arose, as  Senator Carrick  would like to have us believe, in the last days of the Whitlam Government. It is something which has been going on for decades. It is something which has been going on since Liberal governments were able to boast that they had no manpower policies in Australia unique in the world. So, the whole question of lack of planning and so on is important in the context of this Tertiary Education Commission Bill. 
I should like to say something, if I might, about the importance of the area of technical and further education because it again comes into this related problem. Again, in the article in the  Canberra Times  to which I referred, the question of this problem is very well summarised, lt states: 
The urgency of allocating more resources to technical education is underscored by the facts that we can no longer count as much as in the past on the skills brought in by immigrants, on the strong belief that the young in Australia are in for prolonged periods of unemployment, that the demand for skills and for the upgrading of existing skills will increase, and that our technical-education facilities have long been starved of funds for capital equipment . . . 
The same article referred to the fact that the Technical and Further Education Commission report reaches the inescapable conclusion that without a rapid development of the nation's technical education structures and resources, Australia will not be equipped to turn out the qualified manpower it needs. Of course, what that article is saying is borne out by the observations of any honourable senator in this place or any citizen of this country who might wander in to most of the technical institutions in this country and make an impressionistic comparison with the same sort of meanderings in which one might indulge in many universities and many colleges of advanced education. Of course, the essence of technical education, quite apart from the quality of the teaching and the facilities available, in 1977 is, of course, the provision of adequate facilities in terms of equipment and equipment which has regard to rapid technological change in the world at large and in a society such as Australia in particular. 
As I said, one could make an impressionistic judgment of what has been called the 'Cinderella' area of education merely by a visit to some of these institutions. Of course, it is not only educationists and people like that who are concerned about this very matter of the Cinderella area of technical education. Many honourable senators will be familiar with the Jackson report on manufacturing industry and its very strong comments about this very problem of the difficulties which manufacturing industry inherited, of the malaise as it was called which had possessed manufacturing industry in Australia for a number of years- a malaise which once again had nothing to do with 3 years of Labor Government but which has been going on, as the Jackson report found, for a long time. Some of the reasons that the Jackson Committee said that it had been going on for a long time were, of course, the inadequate apprenticeship system which existed in Australia, the poor standard of technical training and the poor working conditions which were available for young people in industry. All of these things, as I said, cannot be attributed in a very glib fashion, as the Minister would like to do, to a brief period of Labor government. All of these reasons were astutely summed up in the reference of the  Canberra Times  editorial to the needs of technical education in this country. 
Of course, the other factor which has to be borne in mind is the sort of revolution of rising expectations which has flooded Australian universities in the last decade and left technical institutions in the Cinderella situation- again as the poor relation of universities and, lately, as the poor relation of colleges of advanced education. That is again reflected, I believe, in the unemployment situation of young people in this country and in the situation of technical education. 
We must, I believe, in considering this Bill take note of the constant changing needs and demands of education and try to assess those changing demands and needs not only for 1977 but also for the 1980s and beyond. Let me refer the Senate to what I regard as a thoughtful commentary on this issue which was given in an Australian Broadcasting Commission  Guest of Honour  program by  Dr David  Armstrong of the Prahran College of Advanced Education in Melbourne a few weeks ago.  Dr Armstrong,  in discussing this question, drew attention to the fact that many of our institutions in Australia are too small to be educationally or economically viable. He said that last year 64 per cent of the total number of our post secondary educational institutions enrolled fewer than 1000 students. He said that it is possible to justify some small institutions on grounds of access, that is to say availability in areas, but he wondered about the overall cost of the mushrooming development of post secondary educational institutions which number some 470 in Australia this year. That is a very high ratio to population compared with the United States of America. In the talk which  Dr Armstrong  gave he advocated a more comprehensive institution and in so doing put it this way: 
At present there are three or four basic institutional types in Australia- universities, colleges of advanced education, technical colleges and in some States single-purpose teachers ' colleges. 
He goes on to say: 
It would make sense to reduce the number of institutional types to two- universities, and comprehensive multi-level regional colleges. 
I know the word 'regional' sends this Government out of its mind. The suggestion of multilevel regional colleges in the context in which  Dr Armstrong  developed it and which has been developed in the United States and elsewhere has a lot of sense. He illustrates the advantages of this suggested program by setting out the functions which such colleges would perform. These functions are broadly for training for the army of technicians and technologists required by the post industrial state, to provide academic transfer programs to universities and to provide students with an opportunity to transfer from one course, faculty or discipline to another within the same institution without changing from one institution to another. The third and important function in the 1970s and 1980s is providing general interest adult education programs for the community at large and to offer to the community services such as academic counselling and so on. There is a multifarious number of possibilities in a suggestion like that. It may not be a matter which this Government or any government would follow up or take seriously, but it is something which ought to be thought about in the context of tertiary education in the late 1 970s and the 1980s. Again I stress in this regard the need for looking forward rather than backwards. 
The only other important point which I think should be made about this legislation is that the Tertiary Education Commission will have one tremendously important function- I assume it is a function of this Commission and not of the Williams Committee. That important function is to try to sort out the relationships between the various sectors now covered by the respective commissions. On this side of the House we have expressed strong emphasis towards the importance of technical and further education, and so has the Minister for Education. In sorting out these relationships it is worth while having in mind some of the criticisms which have been made of the relationships which exist between the various areas in tertiary education in Australia at the moment. Earlier this year the London Times higher education supplement had this to say in discussing the Australian problem ash was called: 
To say the universities are to develop the more academic, theoretical side of higher education, while the colleges develop the practical and immediately vocational side, rings hollow when the former are allowed to retain a virtual monopoly over training for law and for medicine. To say that the strength of the colleges is their diversity is little more than an apology for their failure to develop any coherent alternative conception for higher education. The colleges have mostly aspired to higher level work because there has been nothing in the system to persuade them to aspire to anything else. 
That criticism was made in the  London Times  higher education supplement. I hope that the Tertiary Education Commission will be looking at it in trying to assess the relationships between the various levels of education in this country. They are all matters which need to be considered. As I say, we are optimistic about this legislation. We welcome it. It will need to be seen with flexibility and imagination having regard to changes that will inevitably take place in the next few years and on into the future. Those sorts of changes would, one hopes, provoke us all- I am not making any party political point- continually to try to assess, as one writer has put it, the very elements of education, the theory and the practice, the structures and the methods, and the management and the organisation which all have to be rethought in Australia. Our traditional concepts of institutions must be shed. It is only through the adoption of fundamental alternatives to our present concepts and structures of education that we will produce an Australia which is a total learning society. As I said, the Opposition hopes that the establishment of this Tertiary Education Commission will be a step along those lines, but it will require the imagination, the flexibility and the thought to which I referred earlier in my remarks. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement made following the Premiers Conference last week by the Prime Minister on the program  PM  in which he said that the question of price freezes would be referred to the Prices Justification Tribunal. With respect, I ask the Minister to avoid any waffle in the answer to these 3 questions: Firstly, is it the intention of the Government to amend the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation having regard to the announced wages-prices freeze? Secondly, does the Prime Minister's statement on this matter imply that there will be a coercive element in the wages-prices freeze in relation to prices or is it, as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs said in a statement issued yesterday, a voluntary wages-prices freeze? Thirdly, is the coercive element to apply only to wages or is it also intended to apply to prices in the manner in which I indicated? 
-Senator Scott said that the industrial relations policy of the present Government was clearly stated 2 years ago. I agree with a lot of what he says about that. The policy was clearly stated in the November-December election campaign in 1975. The then caretaker Prime Minister promised quite clearly, without any equivocation at all, that the system of wage indexation then in operation would be continued under a LiberalCountry Party Government if it were elected. That promise was broken 2 1/2 months later in February 1976. Just  2Vi  months after it was made, the promise of the Fraser caretaker Government to the trade unions and the working people of the Australian community was broken. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talks in that pious way about what this Government promised in relation to industrial relations that is the key. That is the first promise that was broken. It has been continually broken in national wage cases ever since. 
The motion before the Senate, moved by  Senator Harradine,  relates carefully the failings of the present Government's economic policies in the area of industrial relations. In so doing it is quite right. The Government's industrial relations policy and performance present obstacles to the achievement of a co-operative approach to the economic problems. One could turn the motion around the other way and debate it with equal fervour. The Government's failure to achieve its promises in the economic field bears very heavily on its industrial relations performance. If there comes out of this debate nothing more than an understanding by  Senator Scott  and other honourable senators that there is a strong and crucial relationship between sound industrial relations and the economic situation in this country, Government senators will have taken a big step forward. It seems to me that the whole question of a crisis of confidence in industrial relations was put very well by  Mr Street,  the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on 9 September 1975. He said: 
Communication is at the hean of industrial relations, because industrial relations are fundamentally human relations. It is obvious that if communication breaks down then industrial relations break down. 
That was his view of what it was all about as a then shadow Minister, shortly to become a caretaker Minister and then to become the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in this country. From the beginning of the period when this Government came to office, that statement of philosophical principle as I understand it to be, made by  Mr Street,  has been departed from. It has been departed from in failure to consult with the trade unions about amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; in failure to consult in connection with the so-called secret ballot legislation; in failure to consult in relation to the proposed amendments to the trade practices legislation; and in the series of broken promises in relation to the Commonwealth Government's attitude to wage indexation. 
Of course, in its present economic difficulties the Government, as Liberal conservative governments have done throughout the history of the Australian Parliament, is seeking to find a scapegoat for the failure of its economic policies, closely related, as I said, to industrial relations. It is at this point that the Government has felt that it is perhaps appropriate to try to find that scapegoat in the trade union movement. It has not had much success today. Yesterday leaders of the trade union movement came to meet the Prime Minister of this country. They asked him what he had in mind by the proposed wages and prices freeze. The proposition was put to the Prime Minister by the unions that there should be a national conference on this issue and that there should, in return for a wage freeze, be taxation cuts of a specific kind which have been indicated as being necessary by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a number of months. The Prime Minister rejected out of hand those proposals for tax cuts and a national conference. Today the Liberal Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has advised the Prime Minister that he agrees with  Mr Hawke  that there should be a national conference of all concerned parties and that there should be tax cuts.  Mr Hamer  has been saying that for a long time. It is said that the devil can cite the scriptures for his own purpose. I suppose that saying could be reversed. I do not normally find myself citing what  Mr Hamer  has said, but if he does not have a reputation for making things happen he at least has a reputation for making the right noises in politics which indicate that he understands the importance in a modern democratic society of trying to reach consensus rather than confrontation. 
That is what the conservatives of this world never seem to learn. During the last period of Liberal government in Australia penal provisions were in operation under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. They failed. Liberal governments did not try to proceed with them after it was apparent that they were failures. Employer organisations did not try to proceed with them after it became clear that those sorts of provisions were a failure. The Heath Government in the United Kingdom tried the same sort of tactics. I remind honourable senators- I hope I do not send any chills up any spines- what happened to the Heath Government because of that particular approach. That approach involves a lesson which should have been learnt as long ago as 1906. It was in 1906, following the Taff Vale judgment in Britain when it was decided that unions could be sued and were liable for damages- and an award of damages was imposed on the railways unions in Britain- that the Trade Disputes Act, which made union funds exempt from claims for damages, was passed. It is extraordinary that in 1977 an Australian conservative government does not even understand the historical and lasting significance of a judgment given as long ago as 1906 on the very question which re-emerges today in the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation and the proposed amendments to the trade practices legislation. 
I shall offer a comment from the Melbourne  Age  of Tuesday, 22 March, about what the amendments to the Trade Practices Act would mean in the Australian industrial relations scene. It said: 
It would create an unprecedented form of statutory civil liability on a special class of individuals whose only distinctive characteristic is that they are employees . . . 
It would not be too melodramatic to say that the provision would return trade unions to something like the political position they occupied in mid- 1 9th Century England. 
I do not take the matter back that far. I take it back only to 1 906 because that is more within the capacity of Government senators to remember than the mid- 19th century. That was a comment by a leading Australian newspaper on the proposed amendments to the trade practices legislation. The proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act relating to the Industrial Relations Bureau have been dealt with thoroughly by  Senator Harradine.  The only point I shall make is that experience has shown people who know something about these matters that this type of legislation is counter-productive. One could not in 1906- one cannot in 1977- run a society which purports to be a democratic society on the basis of coercion of a very substantial section of that society. 
-With the greatest respect,  Senator, it  is not completely contrary to Wilson's industrial relations legislation. I do not know whether the honourable senator is talking about ex-Prime Minister Wilson or the present Prime Minister,  Mr Callaghan.  It does not matter much. 
-The point about Prime Minister Wilson of 1970 is that there was no coercion in the legislation finally adopted. The element of coercion was not present; what was present was an element of consensus.  Senator Wright  does not have to go back to England to understand that. He only has to go back to 1975 in Australia where, with all the difficulties - 
-I went to England in 1906 because I knew that a reference to 1906 would be fresh in  Senator Wright's  mind. It was in the period of his heyday as a student of these matters. That was my one and only reason for doing so. 
-I point out to  Senator Wright  that one really only needs to go back to 1975 in Australia when, admittedly in a fragile way, a government of this country, the Labor Government, was working on the basis of wage indexation towards a consensus with the union movement. I admit it was fragile. 
-The honourable senator might use the expression 'social contract' but I prefer to use the word 'consensus'. The words social contract' would remind the honourable senator that he really was talking about the Wilson Government when there was a social contract and not the element of coercion to which I was just referring. The point I was making about this in general was that conservatives never learn on these issues and I suppose that  Senator Wright,  who interjects a lot, is more at fault than others because he has been a conservative for much longer than a number of other honourable senators on the Government side. I suppose he is particularly sensistive about it all for that reason. 
Following the wage-price freeze which was announced last week by the 7 'political leaders'- I put that in inverted commas- of this country, there was a meeting yesterday between the Government and the unions. In the context of a record of broken promises, a record of total abandonment of the philosophy which  Mr Street,  as Opposition spokesman on industrial relations, put forward in 1975; a total abandonment of promises in relation to wage indexation and other matters in 1975, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  rejected the proposals put by the unions and invited the unions to trust this Government. What the unions were saying, simply, was this: 'You,  Mr Prime  Minister, say there is going to be a voluntary price squeeze and a voluntary wage squeeze. If we are going to be the volunteers we want to know what the other volunteers are going to do '. There really was not much help from the Government on that question as  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, clearly indicated in the statement of his attitude today. The legitimate question which wage earners are entitled to ask is: 'Are we going to get anything for it but the possibility of being fined if we go on strike to protect our interest in relation to these matters?' It is as simple as that. 
This wage-price freeze is not something which is condemned in principle by the Opposition but it is condemned as being something which is typical of this Government in the sense that it is poorly thought out, poorly conceived and off the top of the Prime Minister's head. As a South Australian member of Parliament representing the Liberal Movement put it yesterday, it is the sort of thing which will float out of the window in a couple of weeks. When it floats out of the window, as it will do because it was ill thought out, ill conceived and so on, the Government again will be confronted with the failure of its economic policies. It will come back here in a fortnight's time having to face up to that after this fiasco has been debated in the Senate for a couple of weeks. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
How many copies of (a) the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry; (b) the report of the Inquiry into Australian Broadcasting; and (c) the Green Paper on Immigration Policies and Australia's Population, were made available for distribution respectively to (i) members and senators; (ii) the Australian Government Publishing Service for sale to the general public; (iii) public libraries throughout Australia; and (iv) libraries of universities and other tertiary education institutions throughout Australia. 
Will the Government be making any additional copies available for distribution. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
Prior to his appointment as  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal was the  Chairman  a consultant for the Channel 9 network in Australia; if so, (a) what were the terms of such consultancy arrangements, (b) were the terms of such consultancy in writing or in what other form, (c) what remuneration was paid by Channel 9 in respect of the consultancy, and (d) was any and what amount owing to the  Chairman  as at the date of his appointment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
Prior to his appointment as  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal was the  Chairman  of the Tribunal producing a feature for the American Broadcasting Company; if so, (a) what remuneration was the  Chairman  to be paid in respect of such production; (b) was such remuneration to be paid to the  Chairman  or to any and what company or business on his behalf; and (c) are any, and what amounts, of remuneration still owing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1 977: 
With reference to the Minister's answer given to question No. 257 in the House of Representatives on 24 March 1977, in relation to paragraph (b) of part 2 of the answer, what contracts, agreements or investments does Warooka Pty Ltd have which bring that company within the requirements set forth in section 9 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1977: 
Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in a statement issued in Hoban on 22 March 1977 say Full details of my pecuniary interests were given to the Attorney-General 's Department for investigation and preparation of a statement'; if so, what are the pecuniary interests referred to. 
What 'details' were given to the Attorney-General. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1 977: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal have possession of and/or drive a Jaguar motor car for any and what period after his appointment as  Chairman  of the Tribunal. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, was such motor car owned or leased by (a) Television Corporation Limited, (b) Consolidated Press, (c)  Mr Kerry  Packer, (d) any subsidiary or associated company of the companies referred to in (a) and (b) above, or (e) any newspaper or journal owned or controlled by any company referred to above. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen the forecast contained in the last review of the Melbourne University Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research which predicts a 14 per cent to 15 per cent rate of inflation during this calendar year and a continuation of that rate  in  1978? Is that prediction consistent with the Government's own predictions on this matter and, if not, what are the differences between the predictions of that body and those of the Government? 
It has been suggested, I understand, that these 3 Bills be taken in cognate debate. There is in fact no debate because the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. It would be a waste of the time of honourable senators for the Opposition to indicate its degree of me-tooism on issues which have been raised in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack).  In the House of Representatives, the Opposition spokesman on these matters,  Mr Young,  made some comments which displayed his virtuosity in the handling of his shadow portfolio but which did not amount in any sense to a disagreement of opinion with what the Government is doing or to a debate. As I indicated, the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. They may have a speedy passage as far as we are concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers  in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. I refer to current Press and public speculation about the degree of knowledge amongst Australians and members of this Parliament of the activities of foreign intelligence gathering agencies in Australia. Are messages from the Pine Gap installation transmitted through the Defence signals establishment in Albert Park Barracks in Melbourne? Is there a United States installation in the Defence signals barracks in Melbourne and is it manned by members of an organisation known as SUSLO? 
It might be; that is why I am asking the question. If so, what is SUSLO? What is the function of the United States computer installation in the St James complex in St Kilda Road, Melbourne, to which only United States citizens are admitted? Is that building owned by the Australian Government and occupied by, among others, the Australian Security Intelligence Service? 
-The Senate is debating an urgency motion which was moved by the Opposition. It arises from a recent announcement by General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd of its intention to stand down some 18 000 workers for one week. When I use the expression stand down', I mean in this instance that it is forcing workers to take a portion of their annual leave in May this year rather than at a time to be negotiated, which is the normal provision in most Australian industrial awards and the standard normally applicable to most Australian employees. Listening to  Senator Cotton  one became very aware of the limitations which are imposed upon parliamentarians in a debate of this kind. I suppose that because of particular circumstances which have arisen all of us are contributing to this debate on the basis of how best in a society such as ours one can contribute to the welfare of the motor car manufacturing industry, the employees engaged in it and the companies engaged in it. I suppose that in a week or two when we are perhaps discussing the energy crisis or the Australian environment it will be brought to our attention by contributors to those debates that the motor car is not necessarily the greatest benefaction that has been inflicted on Australian society. At that time we might be putting quite different points of view about the future of the motor car industry. 
I think it is a fact, as  Senator Wriedt  acknowledged in an earlier speech, that governments of various political persuasions have had difficulty in facing up to this problem. The difficulties are very real, as  Senator Cotton  pointed out, because of the numbers of employees involved and the capital involved. But at some stage we will have to face up to those difficulties. In saying that sort of thing,  Senator Wriedt  did not say, as  Senator Cotton  alleged he said, that the Opposition was advocating a reduction in sales tax. 
I accept that the honourable senator did not say that, but listening to his contribution I perceived that he said that and I may well have been wrong. The present problem arises because of a recent announcement by General Motors-Holden 's. It was a unilateral decision of the company made without consultation with government or with the trade unions. The reason given for that decision by General Motors-Holden 's was that it wanted to clear its unsold stocks of cars. The ultimate reason, of course, is that the company wants to maintain, at the expense of whoever happens to suffer, its current levels of profitability. The sorts of propositions which the company puts forward in support of its action are of extremely doubtful validity when one looks at them in terms of public interest, of business or of the consumers in Australian society. 
According to the figures published in relation to the December quarter, General MotorsHolden 's had 23.8 per cent of the Australian car market. The Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd had 23.1 per cent of the Australian car market. To its credit, Ford has not seen it necessary to embark upon a similar course in relation to its employees as that embarked upon by General Motors-Holden 's. The unofficial figures for March show that GM-H secured 25.96 per cent of the total number of vehicles sold. That figure was not as good as the March figure for the previous year, but March of this year was a had month, as  Senator Cotton  has acknowledged, for all manufacturers in the motor industry, and particularly for Toyota and Datsun, which have not seen fit to take the same course as General Motors. A spokesman for Chrysler Australia said recently: 
The market is down in April. But we have no plans to cut production, or to lay off workers. 
One would think that that is a more responsible attitude that the attitude adopted by General Motors. The Managing Director of the Toyota assembler, Australian Motor Industries, said: 
The market is down but the situation is not drastic. I don't want despondency fed into the public's minds. We should be encouraging more confidence and spending. 
General Motors does not seem to care whether despondency is fed into the public's mind and it does not seem to care whether despondency is fed into the minds of workers it employs in the industry. These are the sorts of considerations which have led the Opposition to raise the matter in the Parliament today. Let me refer to one other statistic from the Australian Statisticians Office. That statistic, published in the newspapers on 30 April this year, confirms the figures which I just gave relating to the share of the market which those respective companies had. 
It was on the basis of specious arguments such as those advanced by General Motors, such as wanting to get rid of its unsold cars- I use the word 'specious' in terms of public interest in this country- that the company proceeded to inform its employees that they would take a compulsory week's holiday in May this year. As I said, other companies do not seem to see that as being necessary. The effect on employees in terms of social and family disruption is of course quite considerable, but the point which has to be made is whether in the free market society in which  Senator Cotton  believes we live, companies should be able to operate to the detriment of the social welfare of individuals employed in an industry such as this and should be able to behave in the manner in which this company has behaved. Such behaviour has a highly disruptive effect on employees and a considerable effect in terms of employment and social insecurity. It is contrary to all the industrial relations principles which have been advocated by the responsible industrial relations bodies in this society since the turn of the century, that an employer should take unilateral unannounced action of this kind in relation to its employees. A company which has taken so much by way of profits out of this country should in turn have a greater sense of responsibility towards the people who live here and towards the people who work for it if it wishes to continue to take out that level of profit. 
As I said,  Senator Cotton  referred to the free market economy- 'private enterprise' as it is sometimes called. But what about public responsibility? I heard today about a company which is retrenching employees, many of whom have had years and years of service, and as part of the negotiations regarding retrenchment it is offering those employees $100 a year until they are eligible for the age pension. That is the sort of sense of public responsibility which some companies in this country have. Does General Motors-Holden 's have the same sort of sense of public responsibility towards its employees? The attitude of the Government on this matter is simply reflected in the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he said that the company should have consulted the Government and the unions before it adopted this course. That was a mild admonishment from the Prime Minister. Since we are talking about the motor industry I am reminded that when the first motor cars appeared on the road a gentleman always walked in front of the motor car waving a flag to warn how dangerous it was. I suggest that the Government should adopt a similar course in relation to its industrial relations policies and have somebody walking in front warning how dangerous those policies are for this country if it continues to pursue them in the present way. 
There is a degree of double standard in the Government's attitude which can be seen in the mild admonishment of General Motors for the action which has been taken and in the Government's threats day after day against the trade unions for embarking upon exactly the same free market enterprise course of conduct in which General Motors is indulging. General Motors said: 'You will not work because we want to make bigger profits'. The trade unions have said: We will not work because we want to make bigger profits in terms of wages.' It is quite clear where our respective sympathies lie when we consider the share of the wealth which each of those corporations has in the total scene in Australia. Those on the Government side undoubtly have sympathy for General Motors. Most of us on this side perhaps have sympathy for the trade union movement when we consider the share of wealth which each of those sectors of society enjoys. It is exactly the same sort of thing. The Government hands out uneven treatment. It mildly admonishes General Motors but makes threats of an industrial relations bureau and of savage amendments to the trade practices legislation to deal with industrial disputes by trade unions. 

 Senator Cotton referred to the statement which he made in March last year relating to the future of the motor car industry. In one passage he said: 
It is the desire of the Government to ensure that necessary changes in the industry are brought about in a way that can be sustained by the economy. The Government's policy has been developed to ensure change occurs in a manageable and controlled manner. 
I do not know whether he regards the action of General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd as a manageable and controllable manner of dealing with an industrial situation in Australia and of dealing with a human situation. One could talk about the free enterprise society in which we live.  Senator Cotton  talked about it but his colleague, the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  apparently does not agree with him very much. Only last weekend  Mr Ellicott,  addressing the Australian Society of Senior Executives in relation to the role of the public corporation, said:   a corporation was vigorous and performing its true role in a free society if it 'reacts to the needs of society, is responsive to its consumers and innovative in its products, is self-reliant and maintains high ethical standards in its business relationships. 
He did not cite General Motors-Holden 's as an example of a body which failed to live up to those standards, although it is one of the biggest corporations in this country. He stated further: 
On the other hand a corporation that has to be goaded into action or pushed into submission or disciplined by government regulations, that takes no account of social needs until told to do so is anathema to a free society. 
I repeat that: ' . . . anathema to a free society'. That is why we have moved this motion today. The sort of conduct in which General Motors is now engaging is anathema to a free society if it continues to be subjected to the same double standard which the Government hands out and continues to behave like a dinosaur in the context of a free market without any regard to the public interest or the welfare of its employees. 
We are concerned about the question of double standands and are concerned about the particular conduct of a particular company. It is all very well, of course, to talk about the responsibilities of corporations, as  Mr Ellicott  did. Trade unions are corporations which have responsibilities to society as a whole. They do not always carry them out. Companies like General Motors also are corporations which have responsibilities to society as a whole. They very rarely carry them out and they should be continually reminded that those responsibilities exist. It is for those reasons and not ibr any profound reason about the future of the motor car industry- about which we all ought to be concerned on a nonparty basis if we are really concerned about the public interest in this country- that we support the motion which has been moved by my colleague,  Senator Wriedt.  I commend the motion to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 30 March 1977. 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in a statement issued in Hobart on 22 March 1 977 say Full details on my pecuniary interests were given to the Attorney-General's Department for investigation and preparation of a statement'. If so, what 'details' were given to the Attorney-General. 
What investigations were conducted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and is in 3 parts. I ask: Firstly, was the decision by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission this morning in breach of the wage-price squeeze? Secondly, if the air traffic controllers, contrary to the announcement of the Prime Minister, were to receive lc, or indeed 2c, would that be in breach of the wage-price freeze? Thirdly, will the Minister table in the Senate a list of companies whose dividend policies in the past month have been in breach of the criteria laid down at the beginning of the wage-price squeeze? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to Press reports in which  Senator Martin  is alleged to have said that the Cabinet lied about the likely effect of one of the referendum proposals. I ask the Minister: Is that allegation in relation to this particular matter correct? Did the Cabinet lie? 
-The likely effect of the referendum concerning simultaneous elections. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether a decision has been made to grant an FM radio licence to the University of Melbourne and the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology? Further, what criteria were used for granting that licence if it has been granted? In what respect do the criteria differ from the criteria which are being applied to the Macquarie University and the Sydney Technical College? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Since 1 January 1976 what, if any, news items or programs have been broadcast by Radio Australia in relation to the situation in East Timor. 
Have the tapes or transcripts of such programs, if any, been retained.  
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister been informed of complaints about the conditions of 20 Republican prisoners in the Portlaoise Prison in the Republic of Ireland. If so, are the complaints of poor treatment correct or otherwise? 
Has any representation been made to the Government of Ireland regarding this matter? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am encouraged to ask it by his statement in answer to an earlier question that he was familiar with  Mr Kerry  Packer's cricket team. A report in the Melbourne  Age  of 10 May stated: 

 Mr Packer approached the ACB; 
That is the Australian Cricket Board-  with an offer to buy and promote the Australian team in similar television matches earlier this year. 
It went on to say that this was rejected by the Board. It then stated: 

 Mr Packer also is believed to have spoken to the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser.  Mr Fraser  earlier this year asked the ACB Tor permission to field a Prime Minister's XI against an Australian XI . . . 
Did  Mr Kerry  Packer approach the Prime Minister asking him to act as an intermediary in negotiations with the Australian Cricket Board? What action did the Prime Minister take following that request, if it was made? 
-The Senate is debating the Appropriation Bills. I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill.  In so doing, I want to refer to a speech made yesterday by  Senator Wright.  One of the main points of that speech, I recall, was that the institution of Parliament was threatened by the absence of senators from this place when they ought to be here. It is of interest to note that  Senator Wright  has not re-emerged, as far as I can recall, since he made that speech. But I do wish to refer to what he said because a lot of it stuck in my mind. It was, in fact, a fine and moving speech, particularly the last words, when he said: 
So, in the last year of my existence in this place, I am putting forward this proposition in the hope that we will be able to formulate a new sense of purpose to enable parliamentary government to be the reality that people believe it is . . . 
Of course, I cannot imitate  Senator Wright  in this chamber and my repetition of what he said is mundane by comparison with the way in which he delivered it. But, as I said, it was a fine speech- a fine theatrical Shakespearian speech. It would be a bold and presumptuous man who would pretend to match his eloquence. I am, however, sufficiently bold and presumptuous to challenge some of the assumptions which were at the basis of  Senator Wright's  speech. In a sense it was a call to arms- a warning that Parliament and society was being white-anted from within and attacked from without. On a number of occasions he referred to the crisis of Parliament. He saw the crisis of Parliament as being illustrated by a number of points which he put forward. One was the lack of quorums in the Senate; another was that too much power was given to the executive arm of government; a third was a lack of diligence in relation to Appropriation Bills in the Senate; a fourth point was a decline of the work ethic in Australia; and a fifth point was a lack of social discipline in societies like Australia. In citing these points he used as his authority to support his argument none other than Lord George-Brown, a distinguished politician in Britain, as  Senator Wright  described him. In fact he described him in these words: 
He is a most astute man, an intellectual man and a man of judgment. One failing or one frailty lost him the Prime Ministership. 
That was a very polite way of putting it. One might have put it that Lord George-Brown fell over in the gutter outside No 10 Downing Street and that lost him the Prime Ministership. But the quotation from Lord George-Brown which runs to some length in  Senator Wright's  speech is devoted to the same sort of points which  Senator Wright  was seeking to make- the sort of points which led him to call for what he called 'the new sense of purpose ' in Australian society. 
I see what  Senator Wright  was saying as a journey into retrospect. I saw him and listened to him as a man like Hotspur who summoned spirits from the vasty deep which would not come. In fact, everything  Senator Wright  said amounted to a sigh for the past- a nostalgia for the days when government in Australia was relatively simple and when this country, in a sense lived on the sheep's back or, as  Senator Lajovic  no doubt will recall, to some extent on the migrant's back. It was a time when economic decisions were much easier to make and when government was much easier. Where I differ with  Senator Wright  is that I believe that those days are gone forever and unless this Parliament faces up to that fact it is as doomed as he in his most deep forebodings considers it is doomed. I thought he failed to face up to some of the very key facts about the nature of our society- about questions such as the restructuring of industry, the decline of manufacturing industry in Australia, the need for a manpower policy and the complex nature of the industrial relations scene. All those things did not have to be faced up to in the period about which  Senator Wright  was talking. 
In his speech he rejected- and some of his colleagues have rejoiced- the apparent sanctity of our 1900 vintage Constitution, which has a high degree off immunity from change. In 1 977  Senator Wright  persists in describing this chamber as a States House and apparently is incapable of recalling as far back as 1975 when his revered leader in this place,  Senator Withers,  walked the corridors of non-power here boasting that he had 3 1 in the bag when the then Leader of the Opposition in the other place had  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators now on the Government side of the chamber waiting breathlessly to find out what they had to do at the behest of the then Leader of the Opposition in the other place. Senators waited to find out what to do. 
There is a mumble from the past that what I am saying is a lot of rubbish.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would be no more capable of facing up to the facts I have outlined than  Senator Wright  would be, but of course that is the precise point I am making. 
I want to examine the sort of things  Senator Wright  was talking about in the light of the political problems in recent weeks which he talked about- some of the problems that have bedevilled this country in the past few weeks and probably will do so for the next 30 years. The first example that  Senator Wright  took was the air traffic controllers strike. He bemoaned the fact that parliamentarians looked very silly because they were able to travel around the country which they apparently governed only in Royal Australian Air Force planes. Like others, he suggested that the solution to that problem might be in some form of social discipline, which is always talked about but is never capable of being prescribed. Like many Ministers, he probably deluded himself into the belief that the air traffic controllers strike was being run by a group of militants with some allegiance to a foreign power. All these mumblings, which have the approval of some Government senators, are totally unreal and do not assist them in any way to face up to the realities of that sort of situation. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was no better. He told the air traffic controllers during the course of the strike that they would get not one cent. I think I can tell him now that they will get a lot more than one cent. He will have to discover, as every Prime Minister in this country has to discover, that it is not as easy to make statements of this sort and make them stick as Prime Ministers would like. So, we had a lot of threats and a lot of abuse, but no action. Behind all the bluster nothing happened, because the Government was incapable of taking any action which would have resolved that dispute along the lines it would have liked in terms of its rhetoric of 1977. 
It is very difficult. The bushrangers to whom the honourable senator is referring are a fact of life in Australia society, and one has to deal with them if one is in government. All I am saying is that it is not easy to do so. If one compares the rhetoric of 1977 in this regard with the rhetoric of 1975, one sees the differences between the Opposition of 1975, and its promises about how it would resolve these matters, and the Government of 1977. It recalls to mind the phrase that life was not meant to be easy. It was not meant to be easy for Prime Ministers as well as others. That applies particularly to Prime Ministers in Australia, with the Constitution about which  Senator Wright  spoke at length. In 1975  Mr Fraser  said: 
Our view is that satisfactory industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. Attitudes of mutual respect, of willingness to listen, to understand, to reason, and discuss in an informed way, are essential. These attitudes cannot be created by any party's industrial relations policies. 
He also emphasised the need for the prevention of industrial disputes and so on. I cite the air traffic controllers dispute as an example involving a government which gave forth a lot of bluster but which was unable to do anything about the dispute. I cite that because  Senator Wright  was talking about the decline in the respect for the institution of Parliament. One of the reasons for that decline is that half the time it cannot do what it says it can do and pretends it can do. 
Let me take another example. Only today the Prime Minister announced that the price-wage pause was at an end. That was only 6 weeks after it was announced. Now it is officially off. Everybody in Australia knows that it was never really on, because of the absence of power in this Parliament to do anything about it. It was suggested that the wage-price pause would be a voluntary one but that the wage aspect of it would, if possible, be compulsory. There never was any such power in this Parliament, because, for one thing, of decisions made by the then Opposition in 1973 to campaign against the referendum on prices and incomes. That referendum was not carried. The Government now finds itself without the power which would enable it to do the things which it would like to have done in the contest of the so-called price-wage pause. 
-Precisely. The reality of life in a society such as Australia is that a wage freeze alone cannot be imposed when a company such as the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia says that it will not be bound by any price freeze; when the Managing Director of Safeways, the supermarket chain, says 'We will impose a voluntary price pause, but we will review it every day'; when exemptions are announced by the Government the moment the so-called pause is announced; when it does not apply to incomes as distinct from wages; when it does not apply to dividends- numerous companies during the course of the so-called pause announced dividend policies contrary to the guidelines laid down by the Government; when parents of Australian children who travelled in the recent school holidays know that motels increased prices for that period; and when a government which promised wage indexation did not keep that promise. 
In all these contexts it is not reasonable to expect that that sort of gimmickry can be imposed on Australian society. That sort of thing can be imposed on any society only if one has the constitutional power to do so and the will to do so. I do not want to go into an analysis of the Government's degree of genuine will about that gimmick, but it did not have the power to do what it wanted to do. If one looks at the whole question of incomes in that context one sees that governments- this Government in particularhave never been prepared to grapple with that question. Until it does so, until a government is prepared to do so, we cannot say to people earning wages that they are not entitled to wage increases, when those people know that incomes for non-wage earners are rising. That is the sort of problem which I believe we as a parliament must face up to. 
Let me turn to another issue which is relevant to what  Senator Wright  said. I refer to manufacturing industry and manpower policy. The Government has produced a White Paper on manufacturing industry. There have been some furtive noises about a manpower policy. I recall  Senator Lajovic  's remarks of a few minutes ago to the effect that the Australia of 1977 is very much a result of decisions of leaders of days gone by. Of course it is. The decisions of leaders of days gone by in relation to manpower policy were those of a Liberal government in 1968. The then Treasurer boasted in international forums that we did not have any manpower policy in Australia and that we left it to market forces. That was a decade after most countries of equal economic sophistication had developed manpower policies. I agree with  Senator Lajovic  's point about today's problems being the results of previous failures. This is perhaps another reason why the decline in the influence of Parliament about which  Senator Wright  talked is occurring. Again the realities do not match the rhetoric. 
I think the problem of the restructuring of industry and developing a manpower policy for this country will be so enormous in the next couple of decades that we in this Parliament should be thinking about making a decision to cut defence expenditure drastically and to redirect those resources to the restructuring of industries. I think we should be thinking seriously about trying to develop a bipartisan policy and not relying on the adversary system in respect of this very grave problem for the captains of capital, whom honourable senators opposite represent, and for labour, which we represent. 
We are not talking about apples and pears now. The word 'rot' is appropriate to them. If the honourable senator is hostile to the view that there should be a bipartisan policy on this important issue, because she does not understand it, I hope she will express her hostility at the appropriate time. 
-I am not suggesting that. I am suggesting that capital and labour have mutual interests in this respect. 
-Senator Walters might regard herself as an exception. I do not want to paint all honourable senators opposite in the same colour. I agree that there are different shades. Basically the point which I am making is true. We represent different interests in that respect. What I am saying to the Senate is that on these issues the context of the adversary system under which the Parliament operates is detrimental to the interests of industry in this country and it is detrimental to the interests of labour in this country. 
-I am grateful to  Senator Chaney  for his brief interjection when he said quite right' because I think he is aware of the sort of problems which totally elude  Senator Walters.  All this amounts to saying that we live in a very complex society, in a post-industrial society in which there are no easy solutions for governments- no easy solutions at all. There are none of the son of soft options which  Senator Young  was talking about tonight in relation to energy. I do not believe seriously that they are available to us. In a society in which there are few soft options and no easy solutions the Parliament has, I believe, a not very significant role to play at all. Those of us who are parliamentarians would, I believe, better serve the country if we recognised that fact and recognised that many of the decisions and debates that we have here are not of half the significance that many of us sometimes think they are. I think there are alternative reasons for the institution of parliament falling into disrespect- alternative reasons of the type which I have indicated, such as the incapacity to grapple with contemporary problems. That incapacity is one of which this Government has provided some classic examples. Again, if one compares the rhetoric of 1 975 on unemployment, for example, when the Prime Minister of today said in December of that year: 
Unemployment is the worst possible way of restraining industrial conflict. It solves nothing. It will be a principal objective of our policy to re-establish and maintain the circumstances in which full employment will prevail. 
Of course 2 years later the present Prime Minister has discovered his own inadequacies in regard to his words of 1 975. They are not entirely personal inadequacies- he has those- but they are inadequacies of the parliamentary system and the way the system operates in relation to its capacity to grapple with these issues. The same thing can be said about inflation. The same can be said about the promised return of business confidence. The same can be said about all the sort of glib talk about getting people in Australia working again as if one could do it by waving a magic wand. These are all fantasies, absolute fantasies. They are fantasies which are not assisted by the frustration which arises when a government discovers that it cannot do any of these things in Australia and then decides that it will get people working again by waving a big stick over them. That is the ultimate fantasy and the ultimate delusion. 
I would have thought that  Senator Wright,  a man for whose ability I have a great respect, might have made a greater contribution in this debate to the contemporary problems about which he talks if he had pursued with more vigour his own convictions of 1959- nearly 20 years ago- when he was just passed the peak of his career as a parliamentarian. In 1959 he was a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review. In 1959 as a supporter of the Menzies Government- nearly 20 years ago- he recognised the fact that the Commonwealth Parliament lacked sufficient powers to deal with the sort of contemporary problems which existed in 1959. Again I come back to what  Senator Lajovic  said: The problems of today are the inheritance of yesterday. In 1959  Senator Wright  saw that it was necessary in the interests of the good government of this country if it was to develop as a viable political democracy, if its economy was to develop, to have changes to the industrial powers of the Commonwealth; he saw that there would have to be changes to the broadcasting powers, to the corporations powers, to the marketing powers of the Commonwealth Government; he saw that the Commonwealth Government should have power over interest rates; he saw that there should be alterations to the provisions of section 92 of the Constitution. In 1959  Senator Wright  saw all these things and the Government of the day saw all of these things, but for 20 years they sat on them and they did nothing about them.  Senator Wright  described himself last night as a grizzly bear, I think, but for 20 years he grunted away about these things and did nothing about them. The somnolence of that period in a sense leads to the seeds of destruction probably of the Whitlam Government and probably of the Fraser Government because neither of those governments has had or has the capacity to tackle the problems which face Australia as a contemporary society in 1977. The delusions, as I say, of 1975 of the Fraser Government about what it could do in this country have been shown to be false and manifestly delusions. 
Of course the sad thing about all that is that a politician of  Senator Wright's  generation and  Senator Wright's  considerable ability sees these things, sees solutions to all these problems with which he cannot quite grapple and with which probably we are all inadequate to grapple as being some sort of reinvigoration of the life of the Senate- a little more attention to quorums and committees and watching the power of executive government and a few things like that will mean that all these things will come right and, suddenly, the Australian people will come to respect the institution of the Parliament again and know that we are all behaving ourselves here and working very hard on their behalf. But of course that is no solution at all. What the Australian people are entitled to look for from the Parliament and from governments is achievement. There can be no achievement in relation to the sorts of problems which  Senator Wright  discussed and to which I have adverted tonight in the context of an absence of power to deal with those achievements and, in some sense, in the absence of some unanimity within this Parliament about the extent of those problems and perhaps a bipartisan approach towards some of them if we are, in the interest of the people of this country, to achieve anything very significant in the future. 
So while I share that sad view, expressed in the last year of my existence in this place, as  Senator Wright  put it, and while I share his concern about this institution, I see very different reasons for that quite legitimate concern- very different reasons for it- and very different solutions to the sorts of problems which he poses.  Senator Wright  is a very difficult act to follow, but I am grateful to him because the points which he made were I think valiant efforts but difficult ones conceptually for him to deal with. I am not in any sense being patronising about that, and I hope I do not sound so. They are difficult problems for us all to deal with and I think, if we do not face up to them in a very real way, the sort of fears which a man like he has will continue to be justified and will get worse as the institution of parliament is seen not to be an achiever, as parliament is seen to be an under-achieving institution. So long as it is an under-achieving institution in terms of the lives of the ordinary people of this community it will not get the sort of respect which  Senator Wright  and I, and I believe other honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, hope for. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on  2  1 April 1977: 
1 ) At which commercial studio or production company did the Prime Minister record his Address to the Nation transmitted on 6 April 1977. 
Did the studio or company charge a fee for the production and or recording. If so, what was the fee, and by whom was it paid. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Why does she appear on programs like  AM  hiding behind the legal technicality in relation to the Karen Green case stating that it is the responsibility of the DirectorGeneral of Social Security to deal with this matter? When will the Minister on behalf of this Government make an announcement in relation to that matter and when will she consult with the Director-General, statutory obligation though he may have, and inform the Parliament of the Government's attitude? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that an atomic power station at Gundremmingen in West Germany shut down recently for an indefinite period because of an escape of radioactive steam? 
) Has the Australian Embassy in Bonn informed the Department of Foreign Affairs of the details of this incident? 
What information is in the possession of the Minister's Department regarding this matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does Department of Foreign Affairs have in its possession information regarding leakage of radio-active material from Rocky Flats Nuclear Weapons plant at Broomfield, Colorado, into the Broomfield Reservoir. If so. what are the details. 
If the Department does not have information regarding this matter, will the Minister make inquiries through the Australian Embassy in Washington in order to ascertain details. 

 Mr Peacock; The answer to the honourable senator's questions are: 
1 ) No. 
Yes. 
I will be delighted to show the Minister for Veterans' Affairs the document in due course. I find it an occasion for great regret that a Minister of the Government does not know what his Party was promising in December 1975 and what his Leader was promising in December 1975 in relation to this matter. I repeat, I will be delighted to show him the document. 
I wish to make a brief inquiry and comment in relation to sub-division 3.10, dealing with the Regional Employment Development scheme. I note that the additional amount appropriated is $120,000. 
I should be grateful for an indication from the Minister for Veterans' Affairs of what that additional appropriation relates to. I want to express some general concern about the question of the Regional Employment Development scheme in the light of the Government's election promise of December 1975 that the Scheme, which the Labor Government in the Budget of 1975 had announced would be phased out, would be restored by this Government. 
I notice that the Minister is frowning. There is no need to frown. That was an election promise made by this Government in 1975. It was made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and supported by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as part of a 7-point plan to deal with the question of unemployment in Australia. It followed from a comment which was made by the then Leader of the Opposition about unemployment being a most unsatisfactory method of" dealing with industrial relations problems and a repudiation by the Liberal Party of the suggestion that unemployment would ever be used as a method of trying to solve both economic and industrial relations problems.  Mr Street  then went on to promise that the reintroduction of the Regional Employment Development scheme would be part of a 7-point plan to deal with unemployment in Australia. The Minister will probably recall that it was a part of the package which was going to reduce unemployment by 200 000 within 12 months. In the light of problems of that sort I am concerned to find out whether the additional appropriation of $ 1 20,000 is seen in some way as a fulfilment of those election promises or for what other purpose that additional amount is being appropriated. I would also be grateful for any comment the Minister has to make about the Government's current attitude towards the RED scheme, as it was called. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, relates to an admission by  Mr Lang  Hancock on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program last week that he had prior information of the contents of the second Fox report before it was released. In the course of that interview  Mr Hancock  said: 
Obviously I cannot disclose the  scource  I got it from but I did have that information. I passed it on to the Prime Minister 2 days before the Fox report was released. 
He then went on to say that in a telex to the Prime Minister dated 23 May he had set out the 5 principal recommendations of the Fox report together with his comments on them. I ask: Who else other than  Mr Lang  Hancock had prior information regarding the contents of the second Fox report? Why was this information made available to people like  Mr Hancock  before the report was officially released? Is this the Government's normal way of doing business in the interests of its great and powerful friends? 
-I understand that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Amendment Bill 1 977 and the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill 1977 are being taken together. The Opposition does not oppose either of the Bills. For that reason I intend to speak to them only very briefly. The 
Bill dealing with the Administrative Appeals Tribunal amendment is a consequence of the establishment of the Tribunal. It is another step forward in the satisfaction of the rights of those who feel aggrieved by administrative decisions. I will deal briefly with that Bill first. The main points of the legislation to which attention has been drawn in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  are, firstly, that it widens the number of ways in which the Tribunal may be constituted to deal with various matters and gives a general discretion in the  President  of the Tribunal as to how it will be constituted for particular matters. By so doing, it introduces a degree of flexibility into the method of constituting the bench depending on whether a question of law is involved. Secondly, by the amendment to section 26 of the Principal Act it makes it easier to transfer the jurisdiction of existing appeal bodies to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal by the making of regulations under the section. Thirdly, it also introduces a greater degree of flexibility and sensibleness into the provisions of the Act relating to the disclosure of documents. Fourthly, Clause 36 of the Bill provides for the charging of fees. By that, I mean that it enables the Tribunal to fix fees to prevent frivolous appeals. 
I might say that, as a general principle, we in the Opposition are not greatly in favour of this proposal but we can see that it may well be necessary. We express the hope that the power is used only in circumstances in which it appears to be absolutely necessary for the reasons stated by the Minister in his second reading speech- that is, in circumstances in which it is desired to discourage frivolous appeals. 
The only other comments I make about the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Amendment Bill relate to the comments made by the Minister himself in his second reading speech in which, first of all, he said that plans were well advanced to enable appeals to be taken to the Tribunal under the Social Services Act. That is news which we welcome. We hope that those plans are even further advanced than perhaps the Minister realised in his wildest imaginings when he made his second reading speech. The Minister drew attention to the fact that, since the Administrative Appeals Tribunal had been constituted, only 24 applications have been made to the Tribunal up to 26 April 1977. Even with the limited jurisdiction of the Tribunal that does seem a fairly low figure. I suggest that that may well be because the Tribunal got off to a very slow start in terms of appointment of its members and staff. 
There seemed to be a number of delays about those processes. 
I raise the question of whether sufficient publicity- not in the wider sense but in a fairly narrow sense- has been given to the existence of the Tribunal and its availability to deal with appeals under its present jurisdiction. I think it is a terribly important matter that those who might have the right to appeal to the Tribunal under the jurisdiction which it now has should be well informed of the existence of those rights. I think that it is not only true in the community generally but also true in the more limited areas of the Tribunal's application that it is very important that the community is aware of its rights and is able to take advantage of those rights where necessary in circumstances of an appeal. I am not offering this by way of criticism of the Government or the Department necessarily, although they may indeed be deserving of criticism. I do not know. I would be grateful if the Minister would comment on that when we deal with the Bill at the Committee stage. 
I turn now to the other Bill before the Senate, the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill 1977. The purpose of this Bill is described in the Minister's second reading speech in summary form when he says: 
What the present Bill seeks to do is to establish a single simple form of proceeding in the Federal Court of Australia for judicial review of Commonwealth administrative actions as an alternative to the present cumbersome and technical procedures for review by way of prerogative writ, or the present actions for a declaration or injunction. 
That being taken- for the purposes of what I hope will be a short discussion of this legislation in the Senate-as a summary of the main purposes of a Bill, the legislation is very much welcomed by the Opposition. I welcome it for the sort of reason which I put forward when discussing the other Bill, namely, that there will be greater simplification and availability of action under this Bill to aggrieved persons which will be perhaps less costly and probably less cumbersome. We hope that in each case that will be so. 
The legislation is part of a general attempt to improve and to facilitate Commonwealth administrative law following on the work of the Administrative Review Committee in 1968 which led, as has been pointed out, to the establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Administrative Review Council and the Commonwealth Ombudsman. We are told also that the Government has in hand a Bill to provide standard procedures for Commonwealth tribunals and freedom of information legislation. 
We await both of these Bills with interest, particularly the freedom of information Bill. In summary, both Bills represent a general updating and improvement of administrative law and, we believe, should be welcomed by all parties. Both parties- the Liberal Party and the Labor Partyhave been committed in recent years to the improvement of this area of the law. In our view these Bills take it a little further. As I said, we welcome them and wish them a speedy passage through the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
1 ) What arrangments currently exist between the Australian Broadcasting Commission and any, and what, private investors or government departments. State or Federal, for sponsorship of Australian Broadcasting Commission television programs. 
What programs arc being made pursuant to such arrangements. 
Is the Commission negotiating regarding future productions on a sponsorship basis. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
Is the Australian Broadcasting Commission preparing to operate the Teletext system in conjuction with Australian Broadcasting Commission television. If so, what stage have such preparations reached. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
How many persons aged (a) 18 to 21 years: (b) 22 to 29 years; (c) 30 to 39 years) (d) 40 to 49 years; (e) 50 to 59 years; (f) 60 to 69 years: (g) 70 to 79 years: and (h) 80 years and over are now registered as voters in (i) the electorate of Deakin, (ii) the electorate of Casey, (iii) the electorate of Diamond Valley; and (iv) the following electoral subdivisions: Blackburn North (Deakin), Heatherdale (Casey), Mitcham (Casey). Southwood (Casey), and Tunstall (Diamond Valley). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 7 April 1977: 
1 ) Did any news bulletins on the Australian Broadcasting Commission, or any other public affairs program of the Commission, use news coverage or comment in relation to a large public meeting held in the Sydney Town Hall on Tuesday, 8 March 1 977, organised by the Citizens for Democracy and entitled "Towards an Australian Republic'. If not. why not. 
Was any directive given by the Australian Broadcasting Commission management that such news coverage should not be given to this meeting. 
I should indicate, in speaking about the definitions of Bureau' in clause 3 (b), that for reasons which may have emerged in the course of the somewhat lengthy debate on the second reading the Opposition is opposed to the inclusion of references to the Industrial Relations Bureau in this legislation. I do not propose to rise on every clause and indicate that position. I indicate it now in relation to the whole of the Bill and take the opportunity of referring to it in dealing with clause 3. We will not proceed further with that objection. We just indicate it in relation to the Bill generally at this stage. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Offences by organizations in relation to members and eligible persons). 
-Clause 5 is a somewhat extraordinary provision. Clause 5 (a) is not very different from the provisions in the principal Act. It is a sort of safety provision. It is rather like what  Senator Durack  mentioned in his reply- the real purpose of this Act is part of the Government's ethnic affairs policy to look after migrant workers. This provision deals with safety. Sub-clause 5 (b) states in part that 'Section 126p applies in relation to an investigation under sub-section ( 1) of this section'. Proposed new section 54(1) states: 
Where, in the opinion of a member of the Commission, a matter concerning the safety of employees or of other persons in or about a place of work arises in or in connexion with an industrial dispute, he may request the Bureau to arrange for an authorised person forthwith to investigate the matter and to report to him as soon as practicable. 
Proposed new section 126P which appears a little further on in the Bill refers to the question of right of entry by an authorised person. In accordance with the right of entry the authorised person is entitled to enter a building, examine books and so on, and to inspect any work or any material, machinery, appliance, article or facility and, in proposed new sub-section (b) (iii), interview any employee. I draw attention to that. My attention was drawn to it by a distinguished industrial relations scholar at La Trobe University. I think that pan is a hangover from the original legislation which was introduced in the House of Representatives on 3 1 March. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Perhaps the Minister will also table the telegrams bearing the date 27 May and any subsequent telegrams between the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations and the Minister. 
-by leaveBecause of the circumstances in which  Senator Davidson's  statement was made to the Senate, my statement will be extremely brief. 
I detected an interjection from  Senator Wriedt  about music. I hope that he will make a statement about it in due course, he having interrupted me and my having interrupted him this morning when he was listening of the Eroica symphony. So we have a common interest in the outcome of this report. I agree substantially with the comments that have been made by  Senator Davidson  as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on behalf of the Committee. However, I would put the situation in another way. I think the Committee found that the reality of the situation is that orchestras in Australia have tended to grow like Topsy under the aegis of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. They have done so because the Australian Broadcasting Commission has assumed responsibilities, in respect of the carrying out of its broadcasting power, to broadcast music. A substantial percentage of its broadcasting time is given to musical programs. 
I think one of the most important and refreshing things about the Committee's examination of the matters outlined in the reference given to it was the simple finding that things have developed in a rather haphazard way in the musical scene in Australia, particularly in relation to the development of orchestras. It has tended to be done under the aegis of the ABC as entrepreneur in the musical field. It has taken on the responsibilities of running 6 orchestras in the various State capital cities, all of which, as I say, has been done under its supposed broadcasting power. The Committee, in a very nervous and tentative way- I was part of that nervousnesshas suggested that in the future orchestras in Australia should not be developed perhaps in the same way as they have developed in the past; that it is a pure coincidence of history and geography in Australia that we have a symphony orchestra in each capital city, and that that does not necessarily mean that resources have been developed in the most rational way. There is one other matter which I wanted - 
-I hope that it continues for a long time before the next legislation comes on. A further matter to which I wanted to advert is this: I think that, in its Committee system, the Senate is really wasting its time if it takes up any sort of reference which is made on the basis of rumours and speculation. That is precisely what happened in connection with this reference. It was made to the Senate Standing Committe on Education and the Arts when the Government announced that it would make certain cuts in the budget of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. There was then widespread speculation in Australia as to how the Australian Broadcasting Commission would handle those cuts and what areas would be affected. It was speculated very feverishly in Tasmania, for example, that the Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra would be, to use a colloquialism, the first cab off the rank when the cuts were to be made. So the subject matter of the reference- the employment of musicians in Australia by the Australian Broadcasting Commission- was referred to the Committee. 
I think it is important for the Senate to know, and those honourable senators who bother to read the report of the Committee will know, that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is the only employer of musicians in Australia on a regular basis. It seems to me to be quite silly for a Senate Committee, when employment of musicians was seen to be threatened, to conduct an investigation into the only body which has taken responsibility in a very significant way for the employment of musicians throughout Australia. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has done that over many years. At that time I sought on behalf of the Opposition a widening of the terms of reference of the inquiry. I took the view, my colleagues on the Committee took the view, and  Senator Harradine,  when we approached him about it, shared the view, that it was not just a question of the employment of musicians by the one body in Australia which does employ them- the Australian Broadcasting Commission- - but that perhaps the Committee should look into the question of the possible employment of musicians by other bodies in Australia. As we have now reported, we think that in the future there should be other employer bodies of musicians, but in the terms of reference which we were given we were very strictly confined to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
It is only 10 years since some of the commercial radio and television stations in this country started to employ musicians. In 1 954 when commercial television channels sought television licences- as they were then described, licences to print money-they undertook to employ musicians if they obtained the licences. They did that for a number of years but at a certain stage in the development of television in Australia the employment of Australian musicians became unprofitable. It was said that it became unprofitable to employ musicians, so musicians were sacked. There are now no musicians in Australia employed by commercial television channels or by commercial radio stations. The point of that observation is simply that people who have, as it were, use of the airwaves in Australia, in my view and in the view of the Opposition, have a responsibility towards Australians and towards the development of Australian music. They have that responsibility just as Australian mining companies have and accept now responsibility towards the environment.  Senator Georges  is attempting to interject. 
-He groaned in pain. I understand he groans in pain because he does not accept that perhaps some companies do accept those responsibilities. 
The honourable senator would understand their motives if he read their annual reports because half their annual reports are devoted to indicating what they are doing for conservation in Australia and not for mining. I am hoping a similar situation might develop with commercial broadcasting and television stations. 
The point I am putting to the Senate is that the terms of reference which were sought related to the maintenance of a level of employment for musicians and others engaged in the creative arts by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial radio stations and television channels, with particular reference to growth of orchestras and so on and the need for creation of employment opportunities for actors and graduates of bodies such as the Australian film and television school. These proposed widened terms of reference were taken to  Senator Harradine,  as the mover of the motion, and he concurred with the wider terms of reference. Subsequently they were taken to the  Chairman  of the Committee, who indicated, as I have indicated in an addendum to this report, that the Government Parties were not prepared to accede to an amendment to the terms of reference. 
I might pay to  Senator Wright,  whom I see sitting on the other side of the chamber, a tribute which is perhaps irrelevant to this discussion. He has long been vocal in this Senate on making Parliament seem relevant, the proper carrying out of its functions and so on. Every time 1 see him opposite I am reminded of that point, which he has made here continually over many years. Sometimes we have disagreed about how that objective which we share can best be carried out. But the point I am putting is that the Senate, if it has any reason for its existence- honourable senators all know my views about that- has a great reason for its existence in terms of the committee system and the work which committees of this Senate do. If the committees of this Senate are going to be sent chasing red herrings, as it were - 
-Yes, senator. 
We came up with an orange report. The point I am making is that it is a waste of time if the Senate committees, because of the nature of this House as a Party House, are incapable of examining the full ramifications of subjects which are referred to them and are confined to the most narrow aspects of those subjects. I hope that in future references to the Committee of which I am a member and of which  Senator Davidson  is  Chairman  there will be a broader approach to the things which the Committee is allowed to consider. For that reason I rise to speak on this matter. Having said that, I endorse the comments made by the  Chairman  about the report and I congratulate him on the way in which he presented the report and his approach to the whole conduct of this inquiry before the Committee. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Davidson)  adjourned. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the nature of this clause insofar as it purports to deal with matters of safety. By sub-clause (b) proposed section 126P is brought into the scope of the provisions of clause 5. Proposed section 126P provides a right of entry to an authorised person. Proposed section 126P sub-clause (b) (iii) refers to what that authorised person can do when he enters premises to interview any employee. This matter was brought to my attention by  Ms Jackie  Fristacki, a scholar in industrial relations at La Trobe University. The suggestion, insofar as the application of the safety function set out in clause 5 is concerned, is an extraordinary one. Insofar as it has application, one would think it would be desirable that the authorised person have other functions, including the interviewing of an employer as well as an employee in relation to safety matters. That seems to be an omission. I draw that to the Minister's attention. 
I draw it to his attention in the context of the amount of talk in this place and elsewhere about man- days lost through industrial disputes in this country. The number of man-days lost through industrial disputes in this country is relatively small, if one compares the man-days lost through industrial disputes with the man-days lost through industrial accidents. That fact is often neglected in discussion of this question in Australia.  Senator Lewis,  who is attending very astutely to what I say, might reflect on the fact that the number of man-days lost through unemployment is significantly more than the number of man-days lost through industrial action. 
I cannot give the honourable senator the figures. 
-I shall hand  Senator Lewis  my copy of the Jackson report. The figures are set out in it. The point is made very graphically. I cannot find the relevant page. If he bears with me, I will hand him a copy of the Jackson report. He would be well advised to spend his evening researching it. If he did, he would be better informed when he finished. 
The Jackson report drew attention to this point very significantly. In talking about the malaise in manufacturing industry in Australia, it made the point very strongly that the work force had a shocking record of industrial accidents and that that was a tremendously significant factor in man-days lost. The number of man-days lost through industrial accidents was far in excess of the number of man-days lost through industrial action in any year of recorded history in Australia. When I say 'any year of recorded history', I mean in the last decade or two. 


 - Senator Georges raises a very good point. We have no amendments prepared. I hope that the Minister will take  Senator Georges'  interjection into account. I do not think the Minister was actually listening. It has been suggested that the Government should amend this legislation so that it refers to persons rather than to men. 
Obviously, the reference should be to person-power rather than to manpower. I have no doubt that we will get a great contribution from  Senator Georges  on that point later. My point about clause  5  and its relationship with proposed section  126P  is a small one to which attention has not been drawn in the House of Representatives or elsewhere, but I believe it to be an important one. I am not suggesting any amendment, but I hope that the Government will give consideration to it. We are dealing with only clause  5  at this stage. Those are the only particular matters to which I draw the attention ofthe Committee. 
I also draw attention to the fact that the proposal in clause  5  is a very important one. It provides a very constructive function for the Industrial Relations Bureau to perform. I hope that the Bureau is succesful in performing that, and is more successful than its predecessor bodies have been in carrying out that function. As the Minister said in his reply to the second reading debate, considerations of the conditions of members of the work force, whether they are migrant labour or injured labour, are important factors in the success of legislation of this kind. 
-We in the Opposition express our regrets about the repealing of section 125, which is dealt with in clause 8 of the Bill. Sub-clause 8 (2) provides that where a party to proceedings before a court under this Act was an inspector the Industrial Relations Bureau will replace him as such a party in those proceedings. We assume- I reiterate this point for the purposes of the record, if nothing else- that that reference to the powers of the Bureau will be construed in the light of the statement by the Minister that these powers will be no more or less than the powers exercised by the inspector whom the Bureau is to replace and whose function is now to be exercised by the Bureau. We do not pursue any objections to the provisions of clause 8. 
-I am grateful to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  for the last piece of information he gave. I just wonder whether the Minister is able to inform the Senate of the attitude of members of the Inspectorate to their proposed transfer to the Industrial Relations Bureau. There has been a degree of Press speculation on this question, and I wonder whether the Minister can inform the Senate about that and whether Press speculation that members of the Inspectorate are not happy about their proposed new functions is correct. 
-The Opposition regards as important one or two objections which it has to the provisions contained in clause 10. 1 shall deal with the clause  in globo.  Clause 10 provides for the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau and the office of Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau who, in the words of the clause, 'shall control the Bureau'. We heard much comment from  Senator Durack  earlier this evening about what the Director will do and what the Bureau will do, but we have heard nothing about the qualifications of the Director of the Bureau and whence he is supposed to come. There is a hint in subsequent sub-clauses of clause 10 ofthe Bill that he might be a presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. However, that is only a hint that one can draw from subsequent subclauses. I would be interested to hear the Minister's views on the qualifications which the Director of the Bureau will be expected to have. One would hope and assume that the Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau will be a person who is experienced in industrial relations matters and, for that matter, in industrial law. We are concerned about that aspect of the Director's function. 
The clause goes on to say that the Director may, on behalf of the Bureau, exercise any power conferred on the Bureau by this Act or the regulations. Contained in the Bill, of course, are a number of other provisions relating to the functions of the Bureau. What is most frightening, if I may say so- I am sorry that  Senator Wright  is not here to support me on this question, because I am confident that he would- is the fact that the Director reports annually to the Parliament but otherwise is completely free of ministerial directional control. At an earlier stage when the legislation was being discussed, I was facetious enough to suggest to the Minister- 1 hesitate to recall it- that Norman Gunston might be an appropriate figure to direct the Industrial Relations Bureau; that is, when it had its full powers and was in its full glory under the legislation as it was previously drafted and not under the emasculated Bill which we now have before us. 
Let us assume a situation in which the Director appointed to the Bureau has as an isolate a particular view of what the functions of the Bureau ought to be and the way in which they ought to be exercised. He seems to me under this legislation to be entirely free in the way in which he behaves and in the way in which he exercises those functions. I would have thought that industrial relations was too important an area for a Minister to abdicate his responsibilities to a Director who is appointed by statute and who holds a statutory office as head of a statutory body, which the Industrial Relations Bureau will be. In the last week or two we have had cited in this Parliament instances of what I would regard as a political abdication of responsibility in relation to the Director-General of Social Services. It is quite true, as Government Ministers have said, that in the Karen Green case it has been the responsibility of the Director-General to determine what will happen. I think it is unfortunate when Parliament, by virtue of legislation of this sort, puts the onus and responsibility for administering a body of this kind on a statutory head who is really quite free of government direction. Assume the horrifying possibility, for government senators, of having in this country again a dreaded socialist government and  Mr Whitlam  the elder, as he would then be, appointing some outrageous figure to be head of the Industrial Relations Bureau. 
-Senator Hall has not done much recently either, I have noticed. He has been very quiet indeed. 1 can imagine  Senator Hall,  if he is still in the Parliament in about 1984, in all his outrage saying: 'Look at this dreadful Government. With all these industrial stoppages that are going on, with wages going up, with profits going down, with manufacturing industry being ruined, with the whole country going to the dogs, with the work ethic declining, the Government is hiding behind the head of this Industrial Relations Bureau and saying: "It has nothing to do with us; it is all his fault because he has not been exercising the powers properly".' We see that as a fundamental objection to the provisions of clause 10 of this Bill. I indicate that it is the Opposition's intention to vote against that clause, although we do not propose to divide the Committee on it. 
A number of other provisions in clause 10 are a little vague. They go to the question of the functions of the Bureau and so on. However, I think that most of the comments that one might wish to make about those other provisions really can be taken up by what I have said about the role and function of the Director of the Bureau. I refer particularly, of course, to proposed section 1 26f which deals with the powers of the GovernorGeneral to suspend or remove the Director for misbehaviour or incapacity. That expression might not include a very bizarre view of industrial relations. 
-Earlier in this debate in Committee I drew attention to what I regarded as a substantial point in government and administration which I thought would interest  Senator Wright.  It related to the powers of the Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau and the fact that there was no real ministerial responsibility for that Director. He will be required to report to the Parliament once a year and between making those reports he will be free without any responsibility to the Minister for this very important function of government. I am glad  Senator Wright  has joined us in the chamber. He may have some contribution to make on that important matter. 
I refer to proposed new section 126P, which relates to the right of entry onto premises. As I have already said in the earlier stages of this debate, this  proposed new section  is related to clause 5 of the Bill, which entitled a member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to allow authorised person to enter certain premises on safety matters. There does seem to be some confusion in this legislation, in relation to which I should be grateful for the Minister's assistance. Can he tell us the difference between the function of the Industrial Relations Bureau in relation to an industrial dispute and the function of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in relation to an industrial dispute? The functions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are quite well spelled out in certain sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I do not have the Act in front of me, but certainly section 28-1 think it is now section 25- and subsequent sections of that Act set down quite clearly how the Commission will act in pursuit of its statutory function of settling industrial disputes. 
This legislation contains a number of references, of which the entry onto premises is one, to other clauses of the Bill which refer to the functions of the Industrial Relations Bureau in relation to industrial disputes. I for one am not clear whether those functions are either separate or distinct and at what points they meet. There is a provision that the Commission might certify that it is appropriate for the Bureau to intervene where, in the opinion of the Commission, the safety of employees is involved, that opinion of the Commission having been expressed. Of course, there are other references to the right of the Bureau to intervene in an industrial dispute. I ask the Minister to clarify that position as it relates to the other provisions of the Act. 
I wonder whether I can draw the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  out a little further on the question which I raised relating to the qualifications of the Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau. It does not seem to me to be an answer to say that the Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau will enjoy the same salary as a presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It is quite possible that there are people who draw that sort of salary but who could not run a pie stall if they were asked to do so. The Minister did not give me an answer about the qualifications of the Director; he merely spoke about the remuneration that the Director will receive. 1 am seeking information from the Minister about what sort of qualifications the Government anticipates the Director will be required to have. 
I have an amendment to clause 6, which reads:  6. (1) The Council shall consist of 1 6 members, namely- 
the Minister, who shall be the  chairman  of the Council; 
the Secretary; 
a member chosen by the Minister to represent public authorities as employers; 
6 members nominated by the National Employers' Policy Committee; 
6 members nominated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions; and 
a member nominated by the Council of Australian 
Government Employee Organisations. 
The members, other than the Minister and the Secretary, shall be appointed by the Minister. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 6. (1) The Council shall consist of 16 members, namely- 
the Minister, who shall be the  Chairman  of the Council; 
the Secretary; 
a member chosen by the Minister to represent public authorities as employers; 
6 members nominated by the National Employers' Policy Committee; 
5 members nominated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions; 
a member nominated by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations; and 
a member nominated by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. 
The members, other than the Minister and the Secretary, shall be appointed by the Minister, provided that, in the case of nominated members, appointment by the Minister shall be on the nomination of the organisations concerned.'. 
Clause 6 of the Bill provides for the composition of the National Labour Consultative Council. It provides for the Minister to be a member of the Council. It also provides for the Secretary; a member chosen by the Minister to represent public authorities; 6 employer representatives and 6 representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Sub-clause (2) provides for the Minister to appoint the members, other than the Minister and the Secretary. Although it is not mentioned in my amendment, it might have been advisable if the Government had given consideration, in relation to this problem, to having representatives of both the Government and the Opposition on a body of this kind. I do not press that point and it is not in the amendment. But it might have been advisable. It is a provision which has been included in similar legislation of this kind. 
The purpose of the amendment, most specifically, is to deal with the situation of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. It is one of the peak trade union councils covering what are commonly called white collar workers in private employment. It embraces a number of organisations and I think I am right in saying that the organisations represent approximately 400 000 members. Paragraph (g) of the Opposition amendment provides that one member of the Council shall be a member nominated by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. Other peak councils of the trade union movement are included in this legislation. The Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations is included and, of course, the Australian Council of Trade Unions is included, with 6 representatives in the Bill and 5 representatives in the amendment. 
What the amendment does is to take one of the representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and replace that representative with a representative of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. One wonders why when the Government expresses, in the terms that were discussed in the second reading speech, its public rhetoric and commitment to the idea of consultation in industrial relations- the idea that the Prime Minister expressed in the industrial relations policy of the Government announced in August 1975 that there can be no successful industrial relations without discussion and harmony and consultationsthis Government, for some reason, excludes the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations from representation on this body. The reason it has been excluded comes back to what we were discussing earlier in the debate on the second reading speech. It relates to the schizophrenia of the Government 's industrial relations policy. It has been excluded because it was told that the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation, which is now before us and which resulted from consultations between the ACTU and the Government, had to be accepted by everybody. The Council was told: 'Take it or leave it straight away. There will be no argument about it'. The Council said that it was not prepared to agree with the Industrial Relations Bureau immediately, so it has been excluded. 
This is just a silly, shortsighted piece of pique which this Parliament has been asked to enshrine in the form of a statute. Why should the Senate, this proud institution, pass legislation in relation to a subject like industrial relations which, because of a fit of pique by the Government, excludes one of the most significant bodies in this country concerned with industrial relations? Why should the Senate pass that into law? It is just a piece of temporary idiocy, a madness ofthe moment which possesses the Government. 
-Yes, it does. One of the reasons why one wonders about this,  Senator Wright,  is that in the House of Representatives on 27 May the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said that ACSPA had not agreed to the proposals which had been put forward about the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. He said: 
It was in the light of that statement that ACSPA was excluded. It will be noted that 6 members are to be nominated by the ACTU, and if at some future date ACSPA changes its mind and abandons the stand it took in paragraph 4 of the statement of 1 7 May it may well be that it can persuade the ACTU that one of the 6 members nominated by that organisation should be a member of ACSPA. 
The Minister put forward the suggestion which is implicit in the amendment which I have moved. 
-Yes, it is. We have discussed this matter with the ACTU. The ACTU is quite happy about it.  Mr Hawke  is on public record as having said that he is happy about it. One might disagree with  Mr Hawke  from time to time but he is not a man who would indulge in such pettiness in the industrial relations arena as this legislation does. He immediately said to the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations that the ACTU can have 5 positions and the Council could have the other position. 
There have been telegrams between the Secretary of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Minister but there has been no resolution of this problem. We will pass into law at the whim of this Government a piece of legislation which carries in it this little punishment for a peak council of Australian trade unionism because of its failure to immediately accept a proposition that was put to it by the Government in May 1977. It is quite absurd. As I understand it, the latest situation in the exchange of telegrams is accurately reported in today's newspapers. A newspaper report regarding that matter states under the heading, 'Street studies Hawke offer over council': 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  is examining a proposal to give the white collar union, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, one of six ACTU positions on the National Labour Advisory Council. 
The ACTU  president, Mr Hawke,  made the offer on Monday. 
That is last Monday- 
The reconstituted council- a key part of  Mr Hawke  's industrial peace plan- appeared to be getting off to a shaky start when  Mr Street  excluded ACSPA from legislation setting up the council. 
ACSPA-a confederation of 37 unions with 400 000 membershas consistently opposed the proposed Industrial Relations Bureau, and the union's  president, Mr Philip  Reilly, last night repeated its continuing opposition to any penal clauses. 
Continued opposition to penal clauses is nothing new in the industrial relations scene in Australia.  Senator Wright,  in his speech to the second reading of the Bill, today expressed logical and sensible reasons for the non-application of penal clauses- the same position in substance as ACSPA, but for different reasons. 
-Let me finish and perhaps the honourable senator will understand better. The report continues: 

 Mr Street claims that ACSPA has excluded itself from the council by rejecting an ACTU package agreement on industrial relations. But ACSPA officials are considering  Mr Hawke  's proposal and the executive will discuss it this week. 

 Mr Street's office said it was unlikely that he would accept ACSPA as party. 
As I say, it is really silly to carry into legislation for all time the petty quarrels of May 1977. It is really absurd. If I might say so, the Government ought to be ashamed of itself for going on with this silliness. 
Reprehensible circumstances, yes,  Senator Mulvihill.  We recall the phrase. I think this is absolutely absurd and I invite the Senate not to be carried along as a party to this piece of political idiocy of May 1977. The other point I raise relates to sub-clause 2 of my amendment. Clause 6(2) of the Bill which relates to the membership of the National Labour Consultative Council states: 
The members, other than the Minister and the Secretary, shall be appointed by the Minister. 
The amendment I have moved reads: 
The members, other than the Minister and the Secretary, shall be appointed by the Minister, provided that, in the case of nominated members, appointment by the Minister shall be on the nomination of the organisations concerned. 
When we were in government we introduced, for example, the Trade Union Training Authority Bill. It was passed by this Senate unanimously, indeed with the approval of the then Opposition. Everybody made very me-too noises about it, and said what a great and good thing it was. That legislation provides quite specifically that the nominations to the Australian Council for Union Training, which is a body appointed by the Minister, shall be made by the nominating body. That is to say the union body or the employer body, whoever it happens to be, shall nominate the particular persons to go on that Council. In 1974, in the dreaded days of Whitlam socialism, the Opposition in this place supported that legislation. Now, in 1977, the Government- the then Opposition- has introduced legislation which simply provides that the Minister shall appoint the representatives of the various organisations. So the Minister will select who will represent the Australian Council of Trade Unions. That is what the legislation says. The Minister shall select who will represent the Australian Council of Trade Unions, who will represent the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and who will represent the National Employers' Policy Committee. The Minister will make the selection. It reminds me of the Premier of Queensland selecting a Labor replacement. 
I am referring to clause 6 of the amendment. 
I am looking at clause 6(2). 
I do not know,  Senator. 
It is a nice question for the Minister to answer. The amendment, of course, is taken from the Trade Union Training Council legislation. It is in identical terms in that situation.  Senator Wright  may be correct. I hope he will speak to the point. I am sure that he will agree with me that it is a sloppy piece of drafting which is open to the interpretation which I have put upon it. If it be right that clause 6(2) entitles the Minister to appoint in those circumstances - 
That may be so.  Senator Cavanagh  is always one of the most imaginative lawyers in this place. I am sure  Senator Wright  will agree with me. I am grateful to  Senator Cavanagh  for his interjection because I was slightly troubled by  Senator Wright's  interjection. If that point is correct we could get a quite ludicrous and divisive situation. If the ACTU has not nominated people the Minister may appoint union officials of his own choice. That would be a divisive situation and not one conducive to the good working of the Council. The main point which the amendment is concerned with is paragraph (g) of sub-clause 1 relating to the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. I invite the Senate to adopt the amendment I have moved for reasons of logic and maturity which become a chamber of great dignity and authority in this land. 
I wanted some clarification of the Minister's position. I would like it to be on the  Hansard  record; so I seek a reply from him. Is the Minister saying that since 17 May there has been no communication between the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations which in any way qualified ACSPA 's position of 17 May? Is the Minister saying that his colleague has no information as at today's date about whether ACSPA is prepared to accept the offer made by  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to ACSPA on Monday of this week? I would be very grateful to have the Minister's answer to that question. That would seem to me to be a matter of importance. It is a matter of importance because the Minister's statement tonight amounts to nothing more than this sort of proposition: Because the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations expressed hostility to one piece of legislation which the  Government was  introducing into the Parliament it will not be a party to a council established by another piece of legislation. 
Let us look at the purpose of the National Labour Consultative Council. It is set out in clause 5 of the Bill. It states: 
The purpose of the Council is to provide, in the public interest, a regular and organised means by which representatives of the Government of the Commonwealth, of employers and of employees may consult together on industrial relations matters, and manpower matters, of national concern. 
It states when the Council will meet and so on. That is the high sounding and high flying rhetorical purpose of this legislation. The Government is embarking on a new era in industrial relations. Big stuff! We are told that there are to be consultations with the trade unions regularly. In the light of the purposes of the Bill as set out in clause 5 and those high sounding objects, the Minister says tonight that because of a statement ACSPA made on 1 7 May about another piece of legislation it cannot take part in fulfilling those purposes as clause 5 contains the words 'in the public interest of the people of Australia'. The Minister in this place responsible for employment and industrial relations says: 'No, that does not relate to the public interest of the people of Australia. We will exclude 400 000 people working in private industry from the deliberations of this Council '. As I said before, it is childish of the Government. It is immature to ask us to pass legislation on an important subject matter with those purposes, with those petty, childish reasons being given by the Minister as to why the amendment I have moved should not be adopted. That is the sort of exercise we are indulging in tonight and that is the sort of hope the highfalutin industrial relations policies of this Government have of success in the future if because of the reasons given 400 000 workers organised in 37 organisations are to be excluded from the deliberations on industrial matters, manpower policy and other matters of national concern. That is what this Bill is about and what the Minister's answer amounts to in terms of the purposes of the Bill. 
If the Minister were mindful to be conscious of the purposes of the Bill and anxious that it should be something more than mere window dressing, perhaps he should adjourn the proceedings and consult with the Minister in the other place. Perhaps such a course could lead to a telephone call such as  Senator Mulvihill  has suggested or to the Minister obtaining from his colleague in another place more up to date information about the telegrams which have been exchanged between ACSPA and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Otherwise, as I say, we are indulging in childish, silly exercises, and that is not the sort of thing Parliament should be doing because of the reasons which have been given by the Minister. 
I speak to the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  I drew a rather hasty and perhaps ill-conceived analogy with the appointment by the Premier of Queensland of  Senator Field  to this place. We all remember that event. What happened was that the Labor Party, as was the custom and convention, nominated the gentleman who subsequently became  Senator Colston.  The Government of Queensland said: 'No, we will not accept that nomination. He is not the right person to be nominated by the Labor Party. We will appoint somebody else'. It seems to me that the point  Senator Cavanagh  made is one which is worth consideration by the Government in view of the sort of attitude which it has taken to other provisions in this Bill. It says that the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations cannot be considered because it does not agree with the Government on something else. Supposing, as  Senator Cavanagh  said, the Australian Council of Trade Unions was to appoint  Mr Halfpenny  to the Council? I am sure  Mr Halfpenny  does not dissent from the views held by ACSPA on penal clauses. I am not totally conversant with his current view on all matters, but one is confident in suspecting that he shares the sort of view on penal clauses which ACSPA,  Senator Wright  and others have. But it is quite possible that he could be a nomination of the ACTU but could not be appointed. That is the point about sub-clause (2) of clause 6 which I wish to make. But I am more concerned at this stage that the Minister answers some of the questions which were directed to him in relation to sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 6. 
-Do I now understand the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  to be saying that there is evidence that the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations is prepared to take up the offer? 
-The Government has received telegrams from  Mr Richardson,  has it not, saying that that is so? Perhaps the Minister will answer that question. Has the Government received telegrams from  Mr Richardson,  the general secretary of ACSPA, saying that it is prepared to take up the offer of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
The Government has received telegrams from the general secretary of ACSPA and from the  president  of ACSPA saying that they will take up the ACTU offer to be one of the representatives to be nominated by the ACTU. If the Government has any conferences with the representatives of those 400 000 white collar workers in Australia, the people to whom the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in the lower House will be talking will be  Mr Richardson  and  Mr Reilly.  They represent those people. If under the legislation which the Government may introduce it wants to put officials of ACSPA in gaol it would choose  Mr Richardson  and  Mr Reilly  because they are the secretary and the  president  of ACSPA. After a lot of prevarication here tonight on this question, after reading documents dated 1 7 May and standing on them, the Minister now says that, in response to telegrams from  Mr Richardson  and  Mr Reilly  indicating that they are prepared to take the position, he does not recognise them because there is no official statement from that body. 
What has to happen for the Minister to recognise them? What has to happen now? Does the Minister have to receive 400 000 telegrams? That would be good for revenue but bad for industrial relations. The Minister knows perfectly well that  Mr Richardson  and  Mr Reilly  are the responsible people. If the Minister was not behaving as childishly as the Government is behaving on this issue he would recognise that fact and accept the offer which was made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations himself on 27 May. He is reported in  Hansard as  having said:   . . and if at some future date ACSPA changes its mind and abandons the stand it took in paragraph 4 of the statement of 17 May it may well be that it can persuade the ACTU that one of the 6 members nominated by that organisation should be a member of ACSPA. 
That is what has been done.  Mr Hawke  went to ACSPA and offered it a position. ACSPA has now indicated to  Mr Hawke  and to the Minister, according to those telegrams, that it accepts the offer. The Minister says: ' Well, they are not the proper people. We have not heard officially from ACSPA'. The Minister cannot deal with industrial relations on such a petty basis and say that these people are spooks because he has not met them. That is just ridiculous. Perhaps what the Minister should have said- probably he now has been instructed to do so- was that the offer of acceptance which has been communicated to him should have been accompanied by a humble apology for the errors of the past. It is absurd. The amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition should be accepted by the Government. Quite frankly, if the amendment is not accepted by honourable senators opposite they will have egg all over their faces because the Parliament is passing legislation which has the purpose of improving industrial relations and consulting about manpower matters and matters of national concern. They will look silly and childish from now on. This body will not work- I hope that the Government wants it to work- if people are excluded on this petty basis. 
I do not want to delay the Senate, but throughout this evening we have heard discussions about what  Mr Hawke  said. What he said was accepted by the Government, by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  by  Senator Walters  and by others who have spoken, as being the authentic voice of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. If he sends the Government a telegram, it is all right. But the Government does not happen to know  Mr Riley  and  Mr Richardson  as well as it knows  Mr Hawke. 
-I do. But if they send telegrams to the Government it is not all right. That is the position into which the Government has placed itself. With respect, that is silly. 
-The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill has as its essential point the establishment of a body called the Industrial Relations Bureau. The Bill which has been introduced in the Senate is a slim little volume compared with the Bill which was introduced in the House of Represenatives on 3 1 March. I make the preliminary observation that the differences between the Bill introduced in the Senate and the Bill introduced in the House of Representatives on 3 1 March indicate something of the vacillation and, if I might use the word, schizophrenia of the Government's industrial relations policies which have been manifest throughout any decisions which have been made on industrial relations since this Government came to power. 
It is unfortunate for the Government that it should have this style of industrial relations approach in an area which is both sensitive and important and which I am sure the Government recognises as being both sensitive and important. The sad fact is that the Government has hovered like a waitress between tables over 2 approaches to industrial relations- one which might be described as the coercive approach to industrial relations and the other which might be described as the consensus or conciliatory approach to industrial relations. The dichotomy- the 2 strains -in Government policies is no better indicated than by the quite genuine efforts, I believe, of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  from time to time to adopt the second approach and the quite obvious efforts of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in overbearing his Minister, to adopt the other approach from time to time in what he sees as an appropriate electoral response to dissatisfaction with the position of trade unions within the community. 
This dichotomy, this diversity, this twin stream of views on industrial relations, which runs right through the Government's attitude, goes back to the policy announced by the Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, in 1975. Let me point clearly to 2 passages of a speech which he made in August 1975 in which he set out the 2 views which are still, as I said, quite apparent in the industrial relations policies of the Government. In the first passage, he stated: 
Our view is that  satsifactory  industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. Attitudes of mutual respect, of willingness to listen, to understand, to reason, and discuss is an informed way, are essential. These attitudes cannot be created by any party's industrial relations policy. 
He went on to say that there was an emphasis on the settlement of industrial disputes in the Government's policies. At a further stage of the same speech he said: 
To achieve a more reasoned industrial climate, the L-NCP believe that rules must be established that carry consequences. 
That statement is the seed of the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. He continued: 
We do not believe that such a crucial area of national life can be outside the law. The parties to an industrial dispute, the general public, and individuals are entitled to the protection of the law, and the law becomes meaningless if its rules do not have consequences. 
That is a statement with which I think nobody could disagree in its generality. He stated further: 
There should be no return to old, rigid penal clauses. 
He continued: 
In addition, we propose an Industrial Relations Bureau as a third arm of the Conciliation and Arbitration. This purpose would be to secure observance of industrial law. There is already an Arbitration Inspectorate but it covers employers only. 
Those are the words used by the Prime Minister in 1975. They are words which in my view, as someone who has had some experience of industrial relations in this country, carry with them that degree of schizophrenia about which I spoke, earlier. Two approaches are inherent in the speech of the then Leader of the Opposition. 
While I am referring to that speech, for the benefit of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)-  if it is not departing too much from the subject matter- I draw attention to page 3 of the speech. In a discussion on the Estimates recently I asked  Senator Durack  what had happened to the Government's proposals to reintroduce the Regional Employment Development scheme.  Senator Durack-  a responsible Minister in the present Government, one assumes- said that he could not recall those promises or that he did not know where they were made. It is extraordinary to find in office a Minister who does not know what he was promising to the people of Australia when he sought to gain office. But that is what we were told. I undertook to tell  Senator Durack  where those promises came from. At page 3 of that speech there is specific reference to the fifth point of the Liberal and National Country Parties' industrial relations policy. It states: 
The fifth specific point is the establishment and support for relief work programs in co-operation with States and local government. These schemes should not be  ad hoc,  but an accepted part of policy where unemployment rises beyond a certain level. At the level of industry itself we support maximum freedom of choice, opportunity and initiative as essential bases of both individual self-respect and mutual respect between management and employees. 
Of course, that statement of the now Prime Minister was developed and spelt out by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  as a promise that this Government would reintroduce the RED scheme. I promised to tell the Minister for Veterans' Affairs where those promises came from, and I have done so. 
I now put that in the context of the whole consideration of this Bill. In industrial relations, as in anything else, if one tries to do one thing with one hand and another thing with the other hand one gets caught out in the end. This Government promised that successful industrial relations would 'depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people' concerned; but 3 months after it made that promise it forgot its promise about the RED scheme, it forgot its promise about the reduction of unemployment and it forgot its promise about wage indexation. It forgot all those things. In desperation this Government, in 1977, is trying to make disappear some of the situations which it promised it would dispose of with a wave of its magic wand in 1 976. In 1977 it has decided to introduce this conciliation and arbitration legislation dealing with the Industrial Relations Bureau. Again in this legislation the same discrepancy, the same dichotomy between the 2 parts of the Government's industrial relations policy, is seen. The Government has talked about the need for understanding but at the same time has made the threat that, if that talk does not work and, if the Government does not get satisfaction according to its point of view, then the stick will be used. That dichotomy is still there in the legislation which was introduced in the House of Representatives on 3 1 March. 
-What was that? 
If you have an interjection which you are ashamed of perhaps you can deal with it in your speech later. The fact of the matter is that that dichotomy is still in the legislation which was introduced on 3 1 March in the House of Representatives, and I point out to  Senator Hall  that different legislation is now introduced in the Senate. Why? Because the Government has resorted in desperation to the first arm, the first thought of its industrial relations policy. That is to say, it decided finally that it had to consult with the trade union movement about the proposals which were in the original draft of this legislation. That, of course, was a matter which was taken up to some degree by the Minister in his second reading speech. I will refer to that in a moment. But let us look at the original proposal before the Government decided that it had to carry out paragraph 3 of its election promise of 1 975. Let us look at the first piece of legislation before it resorted to paragraph 3. The sorts of things which were seen as objectionable by the Opposition and by the trade union movement in that legislation ought to be pointed to. The first thing that that legislation set out to do was to encourage non-unionism in Australia. That might be a very desirable objective from the point of view of the Government, but it flies in the face of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself which this Government is pledged to support. The principal purpose of the Act is the encouragement and development of representative organisations of employees. 
Can we come to that in a minute because that is a matter that the Government is going to come to, not in a minute because that is not its wont, but in a few months' time. The point I was just making is one which I appreciate  Senator Hall  may not understand, but the Conciliation and Arbitration Act does refer specifically to the encouragement and development of representative organisations of employees. The specific purpose of the first part of this Bill as it was originally introduced was to fly in face of that reference and to encourage nonunionism in this country. Secondly, there was a specific encouragement in the legislation- a financial incentive- to claim conscientious objection from trade unionism. Thirdly, there was a restriction on independent contractors becoming members of unions. That is something which anybody in the industrial relations field knows employer and employee organisations have been concerned about for years. It is something in respect of which the New South Wales Liberal Government first introduced legislation. It is something which resulted in an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act- which was not opposed by the Liberal and Country parties at the time it was introduced- to encourage persons who were in the category of independent contractors to become members of unions. In the draft legislation which was introduced into the House of Representatives that specific discouragement was there and, of course, it affected people like owner drivers and organisations such as the Transport Workers Union of Australia and so on. All these steps were taken as part of a concerted effort to weaken both the numerical and financial strengths of the trade unions in Australia, which of course have been a consistent part of one strand of Liberal Party thinking on this issue for a long time. 
-The troglodyte section of the Liberal Party is now interjecting about this question. Of course I do not believe in an undisciplined trade union movement. I do not believe in undisciplined business corporations, as  Senator Hall  probably does. I favour some discipline in society and I favour some consensual approach towards obtaining that discipline. When  Senator Hall  speaks on this issue I hope he will spell out the philosophical consequences of what follows from his rather silly interjection because when he talks about discipline he has ultimately to face up to the fact that it is very difficult- and all sorts of governments and all sorts of societies have tried it- to make people actually work if they do not want to work. It is very difficult indeed.  Senator Hall  with his vast philosophical experience and wisdom on this matter will no doubt tell us all how to discipline society in the sort of way which this legislation proposed and how to stop people from going slow at work if they do not want to stop. He might try it on some of his colleagues for a start. Try to stop them going slow in the Senate and see how he gets on. Then he can try it on the work force at large. So all sorts of things will no doubt be said by Government spokesmen on this matter, but the point I was making is simply this: The dichotomy of positions in Liberal-Country Party thinking on this issue we will hear developed today- it is inevitable because its supporters cannot get away from it in speeches by, I hope,  Senator Walters  and others. They all amount to trying to tackle the problems of 1977 with solutions which were appropriate in 1905 but which were seen by the British Parliament in the Trade Disputes Act of 1906-  Senator Wright  will recall and I hope speak about this- to be outmoded and irrelevant ways of trying to deal with the sorts of problems which the Fraser Government in 1977 rejuvenates. That is the very real difficulty which I am telling you,  Senator Hall,  that you have and we all have in trying to look at these problems in 1977. 
In pursuit of the big stick approach, which is one part of the Government's approach, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Ministers in the course of the dispute involving the air traffic controllers announced that this Parliament might be recalled and this legislation might be introduced and the air traffic controllers would immediately return to work, led as they were by so called militants as Government Ministers said. 
-That of course was the huff and puff of the Government's industrial relations view, and we will get a lot of huff and puff from  Senator Walters  in a minute I suppose. All that was said and we felt that the problem was to be dealt with in that way. Then suddenly it somehow occurred to the Government- the penny dropped- that perhaps that approach would not solve anything. Suddenly there was a realisation that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission might have a role to play in the air traffic controllers dispute. It was a realisation which was made clear to them by the efforts of  Mr Hawke  and when that dawned upon the 
Government, when it was threatened with a massive dislocation of the economy of this country by the trade union movement on 4 May this year, it retreated from the big stick position with the air traffic controllers and reverted to the second position. The second position was to talk with the Australian Council of Trade Unions about this sort of problem. These discussions which took place led to us debating in the Senate today a very slim piece of legislation compared with the big stick piece of legislation which was introduced into the House of Representatives- a very slim piece of legislation. In the talks which the Minister referred to in his second reading speech, this is the position which was put to the Government on behalf of the ACTU. 
We put 2 propositions for the earnest consideration of the Government. These propositions are put in the deeply held belief that confrontation and massive economic dislocationif avoidable while still adhering to principle- is against the best interests of the Australian community. First, if the Government wishes to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of a body which they wish ta designate as an Industrial Relations Bureau and there is no explicit or implicit addition to those existing provisions or processes, the trade union movement, while regarding such a move as unnecessary, would offer no objection. 
That is the basic reason why at this stage the Opposition opposes this amending legislation which has been introduced in the Senate. It really is unnecessary. The Bill which was introduced into the House of Representatives could be seen, from the Government's point of view, as being necessary and as being a significant step forward. But this piece of legislation, if what the Minister has said about it is correct, really is unnecessary. It is just a bit of window dressing. Just as this Government abolished the Department of the Media and shifted all the staff to the Postal and Telecommunications Department and by that move made what it thought was a significant change but which was only a cosmetic change, so this legislation is introduced now, the Opposition believes, on the basis of undertakings given by the Government, as a piece of cosmetic legislation. 
The ACTU went on to say that it would agree to the reconstitution of the National Labour Advisory Council. That body has been reconstituted by the second piece of legislation which we are considering in a somewhat different form. In reply to the position put by the ACTU to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  and officers of his Departmentthe second approach- the Minister said: 
The Government gave very serious consideration to the views and proposals put by both unions and employers. 
The employers went along with the ACTU proposals, being a little wiser in industrial relations matters than this Government. On 1 7 May, the Minister said: 
The Government welcomes the acceptance by the ACTU of an Industrial Relations Bureau and the reconstitution of the National Labour Advisory Council. The Government has decided to pass legislation in this session to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau which will have the functions of securing the observance of the Acts and awards. 
He then went on to say: 
The Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more no less. 
If the Minister's words are to be a guide to the construction of this statute, then this piece of legislation is not necessary. The Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more no less. In the Committee stages of this debate I and my colleagues will be pointing out that we believe that certain provisions of this Bill do not honour that undertaking. In the second reading stage I suppose we are entitled to look to the Minister's undertaking as being an aid to the construction of the legislation. The Bureau will have the same powers, no more no less, as the Arbitration Inspectorate. As I have indicated, the Opposition will be taking the trouble, in the Committee stages of this Bill, to point out some of the silly things which we consider to be included in the legislation and to make some general points about various clauses of the Bill. 
The other matter with which we must deal in this cognate debate is the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council. The Opposition does not oppose the establishment of that body. In his second reading speech dealing with the establishment of the Council, the Minister set out the reasons for its establishment and its functions, as he envisaged them. The functions of the Council are set out in clause 5 of the Bill. The first paragraph of clause 5 states, in part: 
The purpose of the Council is to provide, in the public interest, a regular and organised means by which representatives of the Government of the Commonwealth, of employers and of employees may consult together on industrial relations matters, and manpower matters, of national concern. 
The Opposition will be moving an amendment to that legislation because in constituting that body, the National Labour Consultative Council, the Government has engaged again in a little piece of pique. It has engaged in the pleasure of refusing to allow the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations to be represented on that body. That goes back to the old punishment method of industrial relations. The Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations is to be punished by the Government. It it not allowed to be represented on this Council because it did not adopt, in the Government's view, the correct approach to the introduction of this legislation. That is a matter which can, of course, be dealt with again in the second reading stages of that particular Bill. 
The main point I want to make about the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council is that it has, as part of its specific terms of reference or powers, the responsibility for consultation on industrial relations matters and manpower matters. Before it is even established, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has announced that the question of future amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will be referred to the National Labour Consultative Council. That, of course, arose from the discussions of the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation which was introduced in the House of Representatives. That matter will be referred for consideration by this body as soon as it is established and I believe that to be a very important first job for the Council to consider. 
The second area of power which the Council will have and which I believe should not pass without comment is the question of the consideration of manpower matters. I emphasise again the belief which I expressed in the Senate only a few days ago, during a discussion on another matter, that with the very real problems with which this country is confronted at the moment, the question of manpower policy is absolutely crucial to the continuing existence of this country as a viable democratic society. The whole question of manpower policies was neglected by Liberal-Country Party governments for years and years. I remind honourable senators again that less than 10 years ago the Treasurer of this country boasted that we did not have any manpower policies in Australia. He boasted in international forums that Australia did not need manpower policies. We are seeing now the consequences of that stupidity. We must face up to the very real fact of the significant decline in the viability of Australian manufacturing industry; the decline of the rural work force; the growth of tertiary employment, as distinct from secondary industry employment and the fact that the problems of employment, which this country now faces, will not be fixed up by the sort of economic, Keynesian tinkering that went on in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s. They just will not be fixed up like that. 
This Government, when it made all those promises and came to power, I think, genuinely believed that it could fix up the problems of unemployment with those sorts of techniques. The answer is that it cannot if manufacturing industry, a very significant employer in this country, is to recover. Manufacturing industry will be concerned totally with the question of restructuring and the introduction of new technology. This all means that there are immense manpower problems of disemployment and the need to retrain sections of the work force. These are long-term problems which this Parliament must face. It is very important to realise, if one detects in this Bill a recognition of these problems by the Government, that they can be faced up to only by consultation at all stages with the trade union movement. I regard the reference in clause 5 of the proposed Bill to the powers of the Council to deal with manpower matters as being most significant. It is a matter upon which consultation must proceed continually and, if possible, consensus be reached. If we do not grasp that nettle in 1977 our successors in this place in 1997 still will be facing up to the same sorts of problems that this country has today, only they will be worse. 
We welcome this legislation and hope that it represents the predominance in the Government's thinking of the spirits which  Mr Fraser  summoned up in 1975 as one hand of his industrial relations policy and not an emphasis on the other hand which has proved to have been unsuccessful and upon which the fingers have already been burned. We commend this piece of legislation. We will be moving amendments to try to take out of the legislation the consequences of the Government's pique with ACSPA. That is a matter which we can deal with more adequately in the committee stage. We commend the Bill to the Senate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  I call  Senator Wright. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! There is no point of order. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Wright. 
I move: 
That the Bill be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and that the Committee report to the Senate as soon as possible but no later than 30 September 1977. 
Question put- 
That the morion  (Senator Button's)  be agreed to. 
-I regret that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has left the conduct of this argument to  Senator Tehan  'Q.C, who has really provoked me. 
If the view is that he is doing well, perhaps he should go a little further. I refer to proposed section 45D (5), which has been the subject of the debate between  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Tehan.  I would be helped if I could have some better understanding of what 'all reasonable steps' taken by an organisation means. That sort of terminology is used in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in relation to rules of organisations. I wonder whether the same kind of thing is envisaged by that expression in that proposed sub-section of the Act. That, of course, is nothing more than a lawyer's paradise and an evasive trade union official's delight, if he wants to get around the provisions of that proposed section. In using the word 'evasive', I am not implying that any trade union official would intentionally be evasive; but he might, of course, take steps to protect the interests of his organisations, as he saw them, which were not regarded as ' all reasonable steps ' having regard to the provisions of this proposed section. 
While I am on my feet I should like to make one or two other observations about proposed section 45D. The Opposition's general objection to this proposed section has been particularised in various ways and in relation to various points. I suppose that from the point of view of the Parliament we would say that our objection to proposed section 45D is that it is not going to work. So, it is not desirable in the interests of the community that this proposed section be included in this legislation. I want to make one p articular comment about what seems to me to b e the very clear purpose of it. It relates to the provisions of proposed section 45D (1) (a). The action in concert referred to in proposed subsection (1) has to have the effect of causing substantial loss of damage to the business of the corporation. 
-All right; I am grateful to  Senator Wright.  But the point I am making is not altered by the interjection. 
-Yes, I appreciate that and I am grateful for the correction. Of course, the purpose of this legislation, as one sees it in its totality, is to prevent action which is detrimental to competition or fair trading. This is the purpose of the whole legislation. In proposed section45D the purpose is to prevent action which is in any way inimical to the interests of a business or corporation. That is a different purpose from the purpose of the whole legislation. That, of course, goes to the crux of the objection to the presence of proposed section 45D in the legislation. It may not be action under proposed section 45D which in any way has the effect of being detrimental to competition or fair trading, but it can be action which causes or has the potentiality to cause substantial loss or damage to the business of the corporation. The connection with the dominant purpose of the legislation in terms of competition and fair trading is particularised in this provision down to the provision in 45D ( 1) (a). It does not follow that that son of action which is covered by sub-clause (l)(a) would have effect on the whole question of competition. 
The other couple of points which I wanted to mention in relation to this matter refer to the question of the difference between the expression purpose' and 'dominant purpose' in sub-clause (3) which is the exemption provision. Sub-clause (3) provides that a person will not be taken to have contravened the main provisions of this clause if the dominant purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to several things which are set out in the sub-clause. Basically, they are the things which the Government likes to regard as being the normal subject matter of industrial relations- the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of the person or of another person employed by an employer of that person, and so on. Of course they are, with respect, very narrow exemptions when one has regard to the totality of industrial activity which may occur. 
The exceptions in that provision would involve a good deal of complexity over determining what is, for example, the remuneration of employees. Does it include, for example, matters which affect the money value of one's earnings? Does it include the Medibank levy? Does it include any matters relating to taxation? Does it include all sorts of questions which may arise about remuneration such as ancillary payments? Those are the sorts of difficulties which are seen in that type of expression. The phrase 'conditions of employment contains the same sort of vagueness as to what it means. It is a very wide head. What about matters such as superannuation, manning disputes and demarcation disputes? Do they fall within the question of 'conditions of employment'? Seven per cent of the industrial disputes which occur in Australia are demarcation disputes. They should be got rid of. They are like level crossing accidents. Most of them could be got rid of if the Government adopted a proper approach towards union amalgamation. Instead of dealing with them in the proper area of industrial relations it is now sought, presumably, to include them in the provisions in this legislation. So those are the sorts of questions which arise about the sorts of exemptions which may be considered. 
Take the expression 'working conditions'. That can be interpreted quite narrowly as relating to pure physical working conditions within the work place. If it is interpreted narrowly it cannot possibly relate to questions of travel to and from the work place or to all sorts of ancillary benefits which go with the modern corporation and which in another context honourable senators opposite would say were desirable in terms of conditions of employment. So all these things in the exemption provisions are most unsatisfactorily defined. They are in my view, as I said before, a lawyer's delight and cause for great dissention in terms of the administration of this provision. But they are only illustrations which I have tried to give. I repeat the point which I made at the beginning, that is, the clause will not work. The Government has been told it will not work, and if it has to learn by experience that is something we can all wait for over the next few months. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
It is sometimes said that brevity is the soul of wit. That is not a comment I would apply normally to  Senator Douglas  McClelland, but today it certainly seems to have been true. I apologise to the Senate if I have delayed it in any way. The Opposition opposes this legislation. At a later stage I intend to move that it be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I indicate that at this stage because some of the great parliamentarians in this place like  Senator Wright  will appreciate that we spent the greater part of this session talking about very little of importance to this country and we are spending this week of the session dealing with all the important legislation which has come before the Parliament this session. 
The Trade Practices Amendment Bill is an important piece of legislation. It is complex and difficult to understand. I have heard it said in a discussion at which members of the 2 major political parties were present, namely, the Labor Party and the Liberal Party, that there were perhaps only 2 people in the House of Representatives who really understood what was happening when the trade practices legislation was passed by that House. I refer to  Mr Howard,  the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, and  Mr Tony  Whitlam, the honourable member for Grayndler. I do not know whether that is a fair comment about our colleagues in the House of Representatives, but it may well be. It would be regrettable if this legislation were passed through the Senate on the same basis that no one in this chamber understood what it is all about. I confess in speaking during the second reading debate on this Bill that I do not know what it is all about. I would very much like to have the legislation examined by a Senate committee so that we might all be a little better informed. For that reason I foreshadow that I shall be moving at the end of my speech in the second reading debate that it be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
As far as the Opposition is concerned, the original concept of the trade practices legislation introduced in 1974 was simply that business people in Australia should compete and do so fairly within the rules. I suppose that one could say, if one was being slightly facetious about it, that it was legislation introduced by a socialist government, so designated from time to time, to make capitalism work according to its own professed ethos and rules. From what the Trade Practices Commission has said about the operations of the legislation and also from its comments on the Swanson Committee report, it can be seen that the Trade Practices Commission, which after all is a body established to represent the public interest in Australia- that is its prime function- believes that the trial period between 1974 and 1977 during which this legislation has been operating has not been long enough to warrant the substantial changes which are being made by this Bill. It is rushed legislation. It is very complex legislation. It is a matter of regret that it is brought into the Senate on the second last day of the parliamentary sitting before the commencement of the winter recess. 
-Senator Durack is seeking today to retrieve the embarrassments of yesterday. I suppose that is fair enough. However, let us concentrate on the trade practices legislation. Then perhaps later he will introduce an amendment to the National Labour Consultative Council Bill which will leave the Senate with some respect in the eyes of the public as we end this parliamentary session. 
I can indicate quite clearly that a future Labor government would not attempt to weaken the trade practices legislation but would attempt to strengthen it. One can see from the reports of the Trade Practices Commission why we would do that. The Commission had this to say in its report on the 1974 legislation. Referring to that legislation before it was passed by the Parliament, the Commission said: 
The present Act is in sharp contrast with the law it replaced. It covers matters not previously touched, for example mergers, price discrimination. exclusive dealing, and consumer protection. It starts from a general principle instead of case by case examination. 
The Trade Practices Commission at that time saw its long term role as one of laying down general principles for dealing with trade practices which would be abided by. It did not adopt a case by case approach, but saw its role as developing a body of general principles in relation to the content of the Act. This Bill will result in the law relating to trade practices reverting to the old system of case by case examination. We believe that in the long term that could cause many problems for businesses. 
I also say in passing that it could be said from an examination of the somewhat confused and tentative conclusions of the White Paper on manufacturing industry that the legislation which we are now debating in some respects flies in the face of any policy decisions which may have to be made in relation to competition between viable manufacturing industries, which is a matter that that White Paper advocates. It is another example of not letting the left hand know what the right hand is doing in government. I am not making that as a party criticism. I think that we are all guilty of that sort of thing. But there is a dichotomy between some of the recommendations of the White Paper and some of the provisions in the Bill in their ultimate application if the legislation is passed. 
It might be said that, in relation to these proposed amendments, the Government seems to be incapable of distinguishing between its political relationships with some business organisations and the inflationary impact of reverting to a sort of  laissez faire  approach to competitive forces in society. We should look at the Commission's statement in relation to the selfenforcing effect of the Act as it stands and the manner in which it is now being challenged. On page 12 of the Trade Practices Commission's second annual report it had this to say: 
Subject to the procedures for clearance and authorisation, both the restrictive trade practices and the consumer protection provisions operate by prohibiting specified kinds of conduct having certain specified effects. Consequently, the effectiveness of the provisions depends to a great extent on deterrence, and that is  difficult  to assess. No one can say how many anti-competitive mergers were never proposed because the parties realised there was no public benefit that would justify them, or how many competitors resisted the temptation to agree on prices because of the risks under the Trade Practices Act. However, there is some striking evidence of results the Act is producing. The evidence presented to the Commission's public hearing on building societies' tied insurance arrangements showed a substantial decline in insurance premiums over the preceding 2 years . . . 
The report goes on to give other examples. What the Commission is saying, of course, is that one of the most substantial effects of the 1974 legislation, it believes, is not what actually has happened in the Trade Practices Commission since then but, as it puts it, the deterrent effect of the existence of the legislation. That is something which I believe will be removed if the case by case approach is adopted and if the general principles laid down by the Trade Practices Commission are departed from. As I said before, the Commission, as a body concerned with the public interest in business transactions, has really engaged, I suppose, in some quite spirited defence of its activities and operations. The interesting thing about it is that the arguments which the Commission has put in its reports have not really been challenged or ridiculed by anyone, not even the Swanson Committee and not even the Government. 
I refer now to one or two particular matters in passing. First of all, I refer to the application of the public benefit test. The Government's proposed changes in that regard are a complete turnabout on what the Commission said in relation to the public benefit test. The statements of the Commission indicate that these provisions should just not be altered. When interpreting the words 'benefit to the public', the Commission had this to say in its report: 
The phrase 'benefit to the public', has been interpreted by the Tribunal as meaning 'anything of value to the community generally, any contribution to the aims pursued by the society including as one of its principal elements 
. the achievement of the economic goals of efficiency and progress. 
I emphasise the words 'including as one of its principle elements ... the achievement of the economic goals of efficiency and progress'. Therefore, in terms of substantial benefit to the public or of exclusive dealings with which the Commission has been involved, no real argument has been put forward to support the changes vested in this Bill. 
I mention mergers. Substantial evidence from many analysts exists to indicate that the merger section of the Trade Practices Act will be weakened considerably by this legislation and the 
Commission's role will be considerably watered down. This again is an important factor in considering the future of manufacturing industry and the sort of competitive forces one might like to encourage in the interests of efficiency. The Opposition does not believe that what the Government proposes in this Bill will overcome the enormous problems concerning economies of scale and international competitiveness. It is not just the role of the Trade Practices Commission or the Industries Assistance Commission to look at the problems of mergers. They are problems for the Government to face in terms of ultimate economic policy and the ultimate good of the economy. Therefore, they are problems to be faced by government and not just those statutory bodies. I point out that mergers do not always take place as a move towards anticompetitiveness or monopoly. They have done so in some cases but they do not always do so. Before the 1974 Trade Practices Act was passed a great number of mergers were for that purpose. 
The next matter to which I refer relates to the debate in the other place when the Opposition moved that the matter be referred to a select committee. This occurred at least a week ago, I gather. The point was made there that it was desirable that the matter be referred to a select committee because the Government could not expect members of Parliament in the absence of legislative committees to understand the full ramifications of the Bill which the Government then proposed to put through the Parliament very quickly. It now proposes to put the Bill through the Senate very quickly. Twelve pages of substantive amendments to this legislation were introduced into the House of Representatives last week. They were not just drafting amendments; they were not just amendments to replace particular words or to rephrase particular clauses. They were substantive amendments introduced during the course of the debate. The Senate is indeed fortunate to the extent that the substantive amendments have been incorporated now in this Bill which is before the Senate. It is interesting to note that precisely the same tactics were used by the Government in relation to the amendments to the Prices Justification Act. Substantial amendments were introduced during the course of the debate and the whole thing was pushed through very quickly. 
-Yes, although I think we probably - 
Yes, I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that that was another example. But I think there is probably a greater understanding amongst us all of what the Bill relating to the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau is all about than there is in relation to this trade practices legislation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  I think we should cease the round table conference and continue the debate. 
I am fascinated by the discussion which has taken place. I am particularly grateful to  Senator Walters  for her interjection. She is one of those honourable senators who represents to me unfulfilled promise. By way of interjection she always indicates that she has a complete grasp of the legislation which is before this chamber. Then sometimes when she makes a speech about the legislation which is before the chamber I have the feeling that that grasp has temporarily eluded her. So we can look forward to hearing from her a complete exposition of the significance and import of the trade practices legislation. I await with fascination. 
I should indicate that we on the Opposition side of the chamber are not all bitterness about the trade practices legislation. We welcome the amendments in relation to consumer protection. At an earlier stage we had fears that that situation might have been much worse than it is. But in relation to restrictive trade practices and the provisions contained in proposed amendments to Part IV of the Trade Practices Act, we repeat that the Government has acted in far too hasty a fashion for this Parliament properly to deal with the matter. Previously those who have been engaging in anti-competitive behaviour have had to go before the Trade Practices Commission and justify being allowed to continue to behave in that manner. Under this legislation the onus will be on the other side. This is a very important reversal of the onus of proof. The Commission will now have to turn round to determine not only whether the behaviour is anti-competitive but also whether there is a public benefit which outweighs that anti-competitive behaviour. 
It is extraordinary that when a body which, as I have said before, has an underlying function of protecting the public interest is established by legislation the onus of proof is reversed like that; that the public interest has to be protected by a body which has to discharge an onus of proof against a corporation which it is alleged is not acting in the public interest. That is a very important reversal of the onus of proof. I have mentioned before that there is a case for saying that many of these provisions fly in the face of the White Paper on manufacturing industry and the hopes that are expressed for the future of manufacturing industry in relation to the policy outlined in that White Paper. During this second reading debate I want to refer briefly to one other provision of the legislation. Perhaps we will deal with the matter in greater length at the Committee stage. On the assumption that the Senate, the repository of legislative wisdom in this country, will not accept the amendment which I foreshadowed, I shall move to refer the matter to a committee of this Senate. My proposed amendment relates to the provisions of proposed new section 45D. I indicate to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  that at the Committee stage we shall certainly want to ask questions in relation to that proposed new clause, particularly its terminology. I look forward to hearing him tell us exactly what some of the expressions in proposed new clause 45D mean, with greater effect than he was able to advise us last night. 
This legislation nominally relates to trade practices. But by way of the provisions contained in proposed new clause 45 it bears very heavily on the area of industrial relations. We say at the outset that there is an unwanted confusion between the regulation of trade practices and the bearing which this proposed new section has on industrial relations. We believe that that stems from a suggestion made in the Swanson report, which the Government seems to take up with considerable alacrity. Many of the issues which I assume the Government hopes to solve by this legislation are not related in the slightest to the matters contained in the rest of this important Bill dealing with trade practices. The essence of proposed new section 45 is that unions involved in secondary boycotts will be subject to legal restraints imposed by this particular proposed new section. I suspect the proposed new section goes far beyond the issue of secondary boycotts and would have effect on a much wider range of union activities. For example, I mention 2 points. The proposed new section, as amended, now relates to 'a person'. The expression 'a person' for the purpose of dealing with secondary boycotts is a very wide one and embraces all sorts of activities which it is conceivable some persons in this community might regard as undesirable. A lot of examples of this have been given but there is little doubt that it embraces, for example, residents in a street who decide that they will stage a sit-in to prevent trees in the street being pulled down- an example of lawful activity in a strict sense, no doubt, but an example of frequent activity, particularly in the middle class suburbs of Melbourne. 
-I understand the restrictions. We can discuss that aspect in the Committee stage. I look forward to hearing  Senator Tehan  's learned opinion on the subject. There are a number of other examples of a similar kind, such as unemployed workers engaged in a sit-in who would, I believe, be covered, and the expression 'a person', of course, now includes a trade unions- incorporated as they are. I hope the Minister will tell us later whether it includes a union deregistered under the provisions of industrial legislation. 
A whole range of activities of that kind can be covered by the provisions of proposed new section 45D. We say that this is a silly part of the legislation and one which should be exorcised by an intelligent government which is concerned with its own rhetoric about industrial relations. Of course, by virtue of that provision substantial penalties can be imposed on persons, including unions, engaged in concert in secondary boycotts. The penalties, I would think, are far greater than the sort of penalties which  Senator Wright  suggested might appropriately have been considered if unions had been registered with limited liability. I think that was the position in 1871.  Senator Wright  referred to that in yesterday's debate. 
I have dealt in passing with some of the issues which the Opposition regards as important, some of the issues which seem to be the key issues in this legislation. I said at the beginning of my speech that I did not believe that the Senate, if it passed this legislation, would be acting in a conscious) and sensible way. I do not exclude myself from that. I am certainly concerned about the inadequate time that we have had to consider the detailed provisions of this Bill, the complex nature of the particular provisions and the fact that this legislation is being rushed through the Parliament in the last days of the parliamentary session. I understand that  Senator Ryan  will be dealing in greater detail with the provisions of proposed new section 45D of the Bill. I hope we will have a further opportunity to discuss that in the Committee stage. I again foreshadow, however, that we do not think the Senate as constituted today is the appropriate forum in which to discuss and pass this important legislation. 
I wonder whether the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has answers to questions raised by  Senator Cavanagh  before the debate was adjourned in relation to the provisions of proposed section  45D. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
1 ) In the event of a person being entitled to the old age pension, why does the amount received have to be divided equally between the husband and wife. 
Why does this procedure still apply when the wife has a separate income. 
) Does this procedure also apply in circumstances where the wife is receiving the old age pension and the husband has a separate income. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as a Minister. I refer to the answer which he gave to  Senator Wriedt  earlier this morning regarding the transcript of the Premiers Conference. Firstly, was the Minister saying in that answer that if  Senator Wriedt  found that transcript, for example, on a Melbourne bus he would not be entitled to read it? Secondly, does the Minister recall that in 1975 he and others quoted in this place from confidential government documents relating to the alleged loans affair? I ask the Minister: What, if any, is the difference? 
-by leave-Mr  President,  I wish to make a personal statement relating to an article which appeared in yesterday's edition of the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  under the heading 'Case against PM adjourned'. The article reads: 
Six charges of conspiracy, brought against the Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  and 2 other political leaders by an Aborigine, were adjourned to 29 June in court yesterday. 
The article goes on to set out the details of the case. It then says: 

 Mr N. H. Snedden appeared for Munro- he is the complainant- and  Mr John  Button for  Mr Fraser, Mr Viner  and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  . . . 
Although it has been said recently that some people are out of touch with the Labor movement, I have never gone as far as being in touch with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen, Mr Fraser,  or the other defendant,  Mr Viner.  The article does not relate to me; it relates to somebody altogether different, who I believe is a legal practitioner in Canberra. 
-The Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills, and we have been totally consistent about that. We have not opposed on 2 previous occasions Bills which were designed to achieve a similar purpose, that is, to put off the proposals to resolve finally the problems of the stevedoring industry according to the Government's intentions. The effect of the main Bill is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry Act until 1 January next year. The history of the matter is to some degree set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  and includes an outline of the various conferences and discussions which have taken place, particularly the important conferences under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Robinson of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
In indicating that the Opposition supports the Bills, I should say that there are one or two matters relating to the continued extension of this legislation which are of concern to employees of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. This is the third time since it was first decided that the Authority would be disposed of that the staff of the Authority have been faced with an extension of the life of the Authority. The staff have been inconvenienced considerably through the severe uncertainty relating to the closing date, and accordingly they are particularly concerned about a number of claims. One of those claims relates to increased severance payment of an extra week. A severance agreement has already been negotiated between the Government and the Authority's staff, but with the further extension and the inconvenience created thereby the staff now believe that they have the basis for a claim for a further week's payment, and I advise the Government that that is their attitude and intention regarding the matter. Furthermore, what remains of the staff of the Authority is being required to move between various ports to bridge gaps as they appear through retirement and as people leave to take over the jobs in other areas when the opportunity arises. 
The other matter of concern to the staff of the Authority is the question of the incentive bonus. 
Since last November a bonus at the rate of 5 per cent has operated as a retention attraction for the Authority's staff. Those remaining on the staff of the Authority now seek an increase in this bonus as the basis for remaining with the Authority until the time for which the legislation is extended expires, and for whatever period the Authority is required to remain in existence and carry out its duties. The staff pointed out that the basis of calculation of the severance payment is different from that on which furlough entitlement is calculated. For furlough entitlement the Authority's staff can count as service all service with all other government departments and statutory authorities, not just service with the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. However, for the purpose of calculating severance pay, service is confined to service with the Authority. Again, that is a matter of concern to the staff. I have referred the Senate to these matters so that they are on the record of the Parliament, having regard to the fact that this is the third time these provisions have been extended by legislation of this kind, frequently in circumstances such as today in the dying hours of a session of the Parliament.  Mr President,  those are the matters which I wish to record in  Hansard  and of which I wish to inform the Senate. Apart from them, we do not offer substantive opposition to this legislation at this time. 
-The Opposition opposes this legislation. It is my intention to move the following amendment at the end of my speech in this second reading debate: 
At end of motion, add- but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for (a) the establishment of an independent statutory Legal Aid Commission to finance, co-ordinate and provide legal assistance in Australia, and (b) the provision of such funds as are necessary to meet the needs of legal aid in Australia '. 
It is now a quarter to five on the day on which this parliamentary sessional period is scheduled to end, and at this stage the Government brings before the Senate very important legislation such as this. I have foreshadowed an amendment in a particular form, but at the outset I indicate the Opposition's strongest objection to the abuse of the Parliament by bringing most important legislation of this kind before us at this stage. This is not the first time that has happened this week. For weeks and weeks at the beginning of this year the Senate debated such things as the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. People even had a second go in the AddressinReply debate to fill in time so that the Senate could continue working and feel relevant. But at this time on this day an important piece of legislation is being brought on for debate, just as yesterday a very important piece of legislation relating to trade practices was brought on for debate and the day before a very important piece of legislation relating to conciliation and arbitration was brought on in this way. All these are matters of vital concern in fields in which this Parliament could be said to have achieved something positive, whether or not we like the particular legislation once it is passed. All that legislation is being rushed through in the course of this week. 
I refer the Senate to an editorial in the  Canberra Times  of yesterday referring to the specific Bill now before us. It is headed: 'Blitzkrieg Legislation '. The editorial deals with the provisions of this important legal aid Bill. The second part of the editorial is headed: 'Senate needs to act'. During this year we have heard a lot from socalled rebellious senators on the other side of the chamber- rebellious about apples and pears, pretty insignificant referenda and things of that kind. But today for the first time the Senate has been called on by a major newspaper to act in respect of a particular piece of legislation. I wish to read the section of that editorial headed: 'Senate needs to act'. It states: 
Some of the 'safeguards' proposed in the Bill are less than convincing: former Federal public servants are not guaranteed equal rights within the State commissions and the criteria for their read mission to the Commonwealth Service seem unnecessarily narrow. In fairness,  Mr Ellicott  has vowed on a number of occasions to seek the States' cooperation in providing such safeguards. On the other hand, his approaches so far to Western Australia, one of the two States to legislate to set up a local commission, have met with a lack of any meaningful response. 
Questions of honest dealing and courtesy aside, there are many points on which the Bill can be faulted. A strong case cun bc made that legal aid is to a sufficiently large extent a welfare, as distinct from a narrowly legal, issue that the preponderance of lawyers on the proposed commission is inappropriate. Moreover, the Australian Government Lawyers Association is on strong ground when it protests at the destruction of a national career structure for lawyers with a commitment to legal aid. 
The editorial then goes on to deal with some further issues in the Bill. Then it states: 
Given the Government's commitment to its 'federalist' dogma, it is nevertheless difficult to understand why the Government is unwilling to entertain the intelligent compromise suggested by the unions- and accepted by the South Australian Attorney-General-to staff the autonomous State commissions from the Federal Public Service, so retaining the advantages of a unified career structure. A strong case can be made that legal-aid authorities should be enabled to stand back from the local interests of State legal establishments.  Mr Ellicott,  by contrast, advocates a system calculated to subjugate Commonwealth-financed legal aid to just those establishments. Too many questions are raised by the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill to permit its passage at this time. If the Senate is in any shape or form - 
-I did not have it incorporated because I know  Senator Tehan  would never read it because he is hoping to go home at 6 o'clock. I am reading it to  Senator Tehan  now in the hope that he will understand what is in it. 
So perhaps he will be good enough to listen. The editorial continues: 
If the Senate is in any shape or form- 
The word 'form' probably refers to  Senator Tehan-  the 'House of Review' it proclaims itself, it will defer action on the measure at least until the Budget session. 
I read that portion of the editorial because it relates to many of the matters which concern the Opposition in relation to this legislation. The editorial is quite consistent with the views expressed by  Mr Ellicott,  then shadow Attorney-General, when the Labor Government introduced the Legal Aid Bill in October 1975.  Mr Ellicott  said this: 
The Opposition believes that a joint committee of both Houses should consider the important legal, social and constitutional issues involved. 
It is time . . . that we acted as a Parliament on a matter like this. It is time that we legislated on the basis of an inquiry into the important issues involved. 
Admittedly this Government's Bill is more of a dismantling kind than the sort of legislation which was being discussed in October 1975. But there are still very important issues involved which are of concern to thousands of recipients of legal aid throughout this country, to people working in legal aid and to organisations such as that representing the officers employed by the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
One point made by the  Canberra Times  editorial to which I have referred was that the question of legal aid involves important questions of social issues and important questions of welfare in addition to narrow legal questions. The Bill before the Senate suggests a Commission which one anticipates would be staffed, according to the arrangements for appointment and so on, largely by members of the legal profession. I should like to make a point about the relevant clause in the Bill. The Opposition would like to see included in that clause of the Bill some reference to the interests of other than one representative of the Australian Council of Social Services, to the interests of consumers, as it were, of legal aid. We also want to see included on the Commission some representation from lawyers who are experienced in legal aid and who, if I may use an old-fashioned term, are 'dedicated' in the field of legal aid. There are plenty of those about as a result of the activities which arose from the establishment of legal aid services by the Labor Government in the last months of its period of office. 
We think that there are too many important issues of that kind which cannot be dealt with adequately in the time available to this Senate. We think that those issues should be stood over and considered in the redrafting of the proposed legislation which is suggested in the amendment I foreshadowed. There are two or three points in our proposed amendment. They establish, in a sense, the essence of our criticisms of the Bill. The first point is that the Bill should provide for the establishment of an independent statutory legal aid commission to finance, co-ordinate and provide legal assistance in Australia. The second point is that the Bill should provide for the provision of funds by the Commonwealth Government as are necessary to meet the needs of legal aid in Australia. Those essential criteria are missing from this legislation. We regard them as fundamental to the development of legal aid as an aspect of welfare services in this country because we happen to believe that access to lawyers in many senses is as important to citizens of this country as access to doctors, though perhaps not as pressing from time to time. But in terms of fundamental rights and in terms of fundamental concepts of equality of opportunity and so on, we believe that access to legal aid is as important as access to medical services. 
Today many honourable senators will have received telegrams from bodies such as the Australian Conservation Foundation asking that amendments be introduced in relation to this legislation so that legal aid will be available to participants in environmental law issues. I believe that nobody in the Senate has had time to consider that aspect of this legislation. It might be thought by a Minister who is mindful of those questions that they are matters which should be considered by a committee of this Senate or which should be reconsidered by the Government. We know, of course, that the Government has made certain arrangements with the States. Some of the States are probably satisfied with those arrangements; others are not. Nonetheless, we regard it as an abdication of the responsibility of this Parliament to consider this matter adequately, having regard to the time and the date on which this legislation was introduced into the Senate. 
The Bill establishes a commission but gives no guarantee in relation to its independence. It certainly gives no guarantees in relation to the level of funding which will be available and which will be channelled through the Commission. The Legal Aid Commission will be given power to make recommendations to the Attorney-General concerning the provision of legal assistance in Commonwealth matters. From our point of view there is some difficulty in the use of words 'in Commonwealth matters'. Under the provisions of this Bill, it might well be that a person would be turned away and denied legal aid because he was not applying for legal aid in relation to proceedings under Federal law. Because of the sheer inadequacy of the legislation and the lack of time in which to study it all sorts of possibilities could be pointed out. 
I again want to emphasise the point, which was referred to in the  Canberra Times  editorial, that legal aid should not be seen just as part of the legal system but as part of the welfare system within a democratic society. We have no time to consider those issues here today. But, as I said before, the implicit conclusion which one can draw from the wording of the Bill is that the Commission will be dominated by legal practitioners. We suspect that the Government wants to avoid the Bill being subjected to public scrutiny. The public certainly would demand extensive and substantial amendments to it because the public sees legal aid not as a narrow legal issue but, to a very large extent, as a welfare issue. 
Following the quite recent announcement by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  of his intentions regarding this legislation, Professor Sackville, who was commissioned by the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty to prepare a paper on the provision of legal services, issued a Press release in which he criticised the Bill in the following terms, amongst others: 
The Bill politicises the service because the Commission's role, in effect, is limited to making recommendations to the Attorney-General, who retains final authority in relation to the funding of State legal aid commissions and the coordination of their activities. 
He went on to say: 
The Commission has no power to grant funds directly to legal aid bodies. 
That raises the question of what happens to bodies like the Fitzroy Legal Aid Service in Victoria, which is one of the most highly successful legal aid services in this country, I believe. We are concerned also about the fact that there could be an uneven level of delivery of legal aid services to Australian citizens because of the input, if one can put it in those terms, of State governments into their respective legal aid commissions. It is quite possible that if some State governments in terms of their welfare considerations were to give priority to legal aid and others did not we would arrive at a situation in which a built-in inequality of rights in relation to the capacity of people to obtain legal aid would operate throughout the Commonwealth. We believe that the Commission's lack of independence in regard to this will continue to contribute to the politicisation of legal aid. 
The Attorney-General, in pursuing his Government's new brand of federalism, knows that the Government might eventually have to limit the real amounts of money that are made available by this Parliament for legal aid. That would be an abandonment of a commitment which this Parliament, without much dissent, accepted during the period of the Labor Government. Coupled with this, we believe that the Attorney-General wants to limit the effectiveness of the service. On reading the Bill, that seems to us to be the likely result. The legislation, of course, is a long way from what the then Opposition wanted when the original legislation was introduced and, in particular, is a long way from what the present Attorney-General wanted when he said on 9 April 1 975: 
The Opposition - 
That is the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition-  takes the view that legal aid services should be provided in the most efficient, accountable and accessible form to those in need of it. 
In April 1 975 the shadow Attorney-General, in discussing questions of legal aid, included a needs criterion in his speech when he said that legal aid should be provided in the most accessible form to those in need of it. That sort of criterion is completely lacking from this legislation. 
I turn to the terminology of my amendment which at the beginning of my comments I foreshadowed I would move. I remind  Senator Wright,  who was absent from the chamber - 
-Senator Wright, I would not assume otherwise. I know you are always here unless it is unavoidable. I began by saying that the Opposition was extremely concerned that important legislation such as this should be brought into the Parliament at the deathknock All sorts of community bodies are concerned about this legislation, and there should be an opportunity for public discussion of it. The LiberalNational Country Party Opposition in 1 975 saw fit to delay this legislation and suggested that it be referred to a joint committee of this Parliament because the issues involved were so important. The  Canberra Times  yesterday called on the Senate to act to stop this son of behaviour of government rushing through important legislation on the last day of the sitting. 
I know the propaganda that has been poured into you for the last 70 years. 
There is, of course, a conflict between those 2 outpourings, but I would have hoped that  Senator Wright,  at this stage, would have been influenced by the other propaganda as well, because I know him to be a man of flexibility as well as of integrity. I turn to the words of the amendment which I foreshadowed I would move, because I believe that they encompass the gist of the Opposition's objections to this legislation. Of course, the most important point of all is the way in which it is being introduced into the Senate. I move: 
At the end  of motion,  add-  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for (a) the establishment of an independent statutory Legal Aid Commission to finance, co-ordinate and provide legal assistance in Australia, and (b) the provision of such funds as are necessary to meet the needs of legal aid in Australia '. 
In so moving, I warn the Senate that if this legislation is rushed through we are taking a retrograde step with great haste. I urge the Senate not to do so. 
-I refer to clause 5, and in doing so state that I do not regard myself as being in the generic description of 'colleague' used by  Senator Wright  when he said that he was speaking briefly in order to facilitate his colleagues. I was not included in that description, I hope. In clause 5 the constitution of the Commission is set out. It provides for a  chairman, deputy chairman,  2 commissioners nominated by the Attorney-General and 2 commissioners nominated by the Attorneys-General ofthe States in which legal aid commissions have been established. I will come to sub-clause (d ) in a moment. Clause 5 provides for a commissioner nominated by the Law Council of Australia and a commissioner nominated by the Australian Council of Social Service which, presumably, is intended to be the consumer representative. It appears to us, and wc would be grateful for some assurance from the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  or some indication of the Government's view, that it is likely that all the commissioners other than the commissioner representing the Australian Council of Social Service will be lawyers, none of whom necessarily has had any experience, involvement or dedication in the field of legal aid. A lot of hopes have been expressed by senators such as  Senator Missen  that this sort of thing will not happen, but there is nothing in the legislation to prevent it. 
I would be very grateful for an indication of the Government's hopes or intentions, whatever the case may be, regarding the point I have raised. Certainly one imagines that the commissioner nominated by the Law Council will not necessarily fall into that category. I also ask the Minister to elaborate on sub-clause (d) which refers to the commissioners nominated by the States in which legal aid commissions have been established. That carries an important implication regarding this legislation. There may bc States in which legal aid commissions have not been established. This goes to the very point wc were trying to make in the second reading debate; that is, that it is undesirable that Australians be accorded unequal rights in relation to access to legal aid. That may be an area in which people such as  Senator Missen  and I have hopes, but that is a weakness which we see in the legislation. I would be grateful for the Ministers comments on clause 5. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Attorney-General agree with the view expressed by the Law Reform Commission on the matter of publication of papers. 
Will the research papers prepared for the criminal investigation project be published. 
3 ) If the answer to ( 2 ) is in the negative, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
With reference to the Proforma for preparation of submissions for the Public Inquiry into the concept of SelfRegulation by Australian Broadcasters which has been distributed by the Broadcasting Tribunal, does that Proforma misinterpret the Terms of Reference set down by the Minister in that sections 1 to 4 of the Proforma refer to need for program standards, but do not refer to the possibility that broadcasters may be allowed to set and maintain those minimum standards. If so, will the Minister take steps to rectify this situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a letter from  Mr J.  Goncalves regarding the plight of the relatives of Timorese refugees in Australia. 
Is the allegation contained in the letter correct that the Minister has failed to reply to 3 earlier letters from  Mr Goncalves  on this question. 
How many officers of the Department are fully engaged in the processing of family reunion applications from Timorese refugees in (a) Portugal, and (b) Australia. 
What initiatives have been taken by the Australian Government to involve (a) the International Red Cross, and (b) the United Nations Commission on Refugees, in the supervision of the evacuation of the families of Timorese refugees from Timor. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Which commercial television stations transmitted (a) the Address to the Nation by the Prime Minister on 6 April 1 977: (b) the Statement in Reply by the Leader of the Opposition on 1 3 April; and at what times did they do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's answers to Senate questions Nos. 867 and 1266 relating to the operating costs of the television transmitter at Mount Dowe, was the cost of electrical power included in the figure for total costs of operating the transmitter. 
What was the cost of electric power for operation of the transmitter for the year ending 30 September 1 976. 
Who paid the accounts for electrical power during the period referred to in ( 2 ) above. 
What is the average amount paid per financial year in transport allowances to the staff employed in operation of the transmitter. 
) Was the amount referred to in (4) included in the total costs. 
Does the amount of $87,881 in respect of salaries include payments for shift work, overtime and penalty rates for work on holidays and Sundays. 
If the answer to (6) is in the negative, what additional amount was paid in respect ofthe items not included in the amount of $87,881. 
In respect of the amount paid by NEN9, does such amount include an amount of approximately $9,000 paid in respect of upgrading the transmitter for colour transmission: if so, when was such amount paid and is it a recurring payment or not. 
In respect of the answer given on the contributions made by NEN9 for the building and roads, what was the total cost of ( a ) the buildings, and ( b ) the roads. 
Over what period and on what dates were the contributions by NEN9 made in respect ofthe costs of the buildings and the roads. 
Over what period and on what dates were the total contributions paid by NEN9 made since I January 1 970. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the current amount of the budget of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation allocated to research into problems of rural industries. 
What are the major research projects on rural industries currently being undertaken by the Organisation. 
What mechanism exists for co-ordination of rural research programs being conducted by the Organisation, the Department of Primary Industry, universities and relevant State government departments. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
How many companies carrying on business in (a) Australia; (b) Victoria: (c) the City of Ringwood, Victoria; (d) the City of Nunawading, Victoria; (e) the City of Doncaster-Templestowe, Victoria; (f) the City of Box Hill. Victoria: (g) the Diamond Valley Electorate; (h) the Casey Electorate: (i) the Deakin Electorate; and (j) the Holt Electorate were (i) ordered by a civil State or Federal Court to pay moneys due by them as income tax to the Commonwealth Government; (ii) prosecuted for an offence under, or breach of, the Income Tax Assessment Act or any other and what Commonwealth taxation legislation; and (iii) convicted of an offence under, or breach of, the Income Tax 
Assessment Act or any other and what Commonwealth taxation legislation during the period 1 March 1976 to 1 March 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
How many persons residing and/or carrying on business in (a) Australia; (b) Victoria; (c) the City of Ringwood, Victoria; (d) the City of Nunawading, Victoria; (e) the City of Doncaster-Templestowe, Victoria; (f) the City of Box Hill, Victoria; (g) the Diamond Valley Electorate; (h) the Casey Electorate, and (i) the Deakin Electorate were: 
ordered by a civil State or Federal Court to pay moneys due by them as income tax to the Commonwealth Government; (ti) prosecuted for an offence under or breach of the Income Tax Assessment Act or any other and what Commonwealth taxation legislation; 
convicted of an offence under or breach of the Income Tax Assessment Act or any other and what 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What persons, or organisations, have been granted approval to publish matter transmitted in broadcasts by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Broadcasting Tribunal, under the provisions of section 120 of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
How many persons residing in (a) The City of Nunawading, Victoria; (b) the City of DoncasterTemplestowe, Victoria; and (c) the City of Ringwood, Victoria were receiving on 1 March 1977 (i) unemployment benefits (stating how many of those people are registered at the Box Hill Commonwealth Employment Service Office, the Ringwood Commonwealth Employment Service Office and any other and which Commonwealth Employment Service Office), (ii) sickness benefits, (iii) widows' pension, (iv) age pension, (v) child endowment (family allowance), (vi) handicapped childrens' allowance (stating the number of children for whom the same is paid), (vii) double orphans allowance (stating the number of children for whom the same is paid). 
How many persons residing in (a) the City of Nunawading; (b) the City of Doncaster-Templestowe; and (c) the City of Ringwood were receiving such benefit, pension or allowance on 1 1 November 1975. 
How many persons residing in (a) Australia; (b) Victoria; (c) the City of Ringwood; (d) the City of Nunawading; (e) the City of Doncaster-Templestowe; (f) the City of Box Hill; (g) the Diamond Valley electorate; (h) the Casey electorate; and (i) the Deakin electorate; were (i) ordered by a civil State or Federal Court to repay moneys to them by the Department of Social Security; (ii) prosecuted for an offence under, or breach of, the Social Services Act; (iii) convicted of an offence under, or breach of, the Social Services Act, during the period between 1 March 1974 and 1 March 1977. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) What proportion of (a) the persons who left school between October 1976 and March 1977 were, as at I March 1977 (i) employed, (ii) unemployed, and (iii) registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service; (b) persons under 2 1 years of age as at the date of answering this question are (i) employed, (ii) unemployed and (iii) registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
How many persons under 21 years of age residing in (a) the City of Nunawading, Victoria; (b) the City of Doncaster-Templestowe, Victoria; (c) the City of Ringwood. Victoria: and (d) the City of Dandenong, Victoria are at the date of answering this question, employed by persons or corporations receiving subsidies from the Commonwealth Government in respect of their employment. 
) How many (a) persons under the age of 2 1 years, who were registered for employment between I October 1976 and I March 1977: (b) persons who left school between I October 1976 and 1 March 1977, were placed in employment by the Commonwealth Employment Service Offices at (i) Box Hill, Victoria: (ii) Ringwood, Victoria, and (iii) Dandenong, Victoria, between I October 1976 and I March 1977. " 
What number of registered job vacancies were there for (a) persons under the age of 21; (b) persons who left school between 1 October 1976 and 1 March 1977 as at 1 March 1977 and at the date of answering this question at the (i) Box Hill, and (ii) Ringwood Commonwealth Employment Service Offices. 
(a) Where any and, if so, what number of man hours lost by reason of strikes or other, and what, industrial disputes by employees employed by employers situated in (i) the electorate of Casey, (ii) the electorate of Diamond Valley, (iii) the electorate of Deakin, (iv) the City of Ringwood, ( v) the City of Doncaster-Templestowe, (vt) the City of Nunawading, (vii) the State of Victoria during 1974, 1975 and 1 976 and during the period between 1 January 1 977 and the date of answering this question, and (b) what were the number of strikes which took place at businesses situated in each of the abovenamed electorates during each of the said periods of time. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on  3  May 1 977: 
Hus the Government made any decision to delay the processing of data from the 1976 Census. If so. what is the estimated effect the delay will have on planning for the needs of Commonwealth. State and Local governments. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) How many research reports of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty have been published since the Commission commenced operation in 1972 and how many remain to be published. 
How much finance has been made available to the Commission in each financial year from 1 972-73 to 1 976-77. 
How much finance has been made available to the Commission for the purpose of advertising in each financial year from 1972-73 to 1976-77 and what proportion of total finance does this represent. 
Will the Government be making additional finance available to the Commission for the purpose of advertising. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to a question asked without notice by  Senator Melzer  on 8 December 1976  (Hansard,  page 2776) concerning the Report of the Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System that I would expect a number of announcements of decisions and perhaps legislation to be introduced in the autumn session, have any such decisions been made or legislation passed, particularly in the three areas mentioned by  Senator Melzer.  If so, what are the decisions or legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
1 ) Has the Minister received any and what applications from licensees of television stations to make transmissions by means of the system known as Teletext. 
Has the Minister received advice from the AttorneyGeneral as to whether a television transmission licence entitles the licensee to operate the teletext system. 
If the Minister has received advice from the AttorneyGeneral, what is the substance of such advice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Is the Industries Assistance Commission currently conducting an inquiry into the recording industry; if so- 
1 ) Has the Minister written to the Industries Assistance Commission giving any instructions as to the priority to be given to the inquiry into the Recording Industry. 
If such instructions were given, was it following consultation by the Minister or a member of his staff with any, and if so, which foreign-owned record manufacturing companies. 
Which, if any, companies has the Minister informed of his direction or request to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
With reference to a report in the Melbourne  Age  dated 10 May 1977, in relation to various approaches made by  Mr Kerry  Packer to the Australian Cricket Board and to the Prime Minister concerning an Australian cricket team, did  Mr Packer  so approach the Prime Minister concerning this matter; if so, what action did the Prime Minister take following that approach. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) What assistance, other than the use of the Government Ordnance Factory at Bendigo, has the Government given towards the development of the Pritchard Steam Car? 
Will the Government give financial assistance towards the final developmental stages of this important project? 
In the interests of employment, and the encouragement of Australian design and engineering skills, will the Government take steps to ensure that if this project is successful the production of the car will remain exclusively in Austraiian control? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
With reference to regulation 19 of the Regulations made under the Family Law Act 1975 and the document referred to in those regulations known as 'Advice to Effect of Proceedings', what representations has the AttorneyGeneral received regarding the need to have this document translated into various foreign languages for service on respondents overseas. 
Over what period of time has the Attorney-General been receiving requests for the translation of this document. 
Was there an announcement made in the Family Court last year stating translations of this document would be made available in a variety of languages. 
Is it the Attorney-General 's intention to amend regulation 1 9 to restrict its application to respondents in Australia. 
If the answer to (4) is in the affirmative, when is such amendment to be introduced and when is it to take effect. 
-Does the Minister for Industry and Commerce agree that the clear implications of Treasury Budget Paper No. 2 are that there is no prospect of a reduction in interest rates in the foreseeable future? I ask this question of him because as Minister he will recognise that this matter is of vital concern, particularly to small businesses. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that the Government has decided to spend $2m to upgrade television facilities in the Prime Minister's Victorian electorate of Wannon? I also ask: Is it a fact that the Broadcasting Control Board listed 20 areas which it regarded as being of high priority for the upgrading of television reception and that the area in Wannon was not amongst those top 20 in terms of need? I further ask the Minister: Has the Department been given instructions that this matter is to be proceeded with as a matter of priority? If this is so, what novel explanation is available for this instruction? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Council of the National Gallery prepared an acquisition policy and statement of principles for the purchase by the Gallery of new works of art. 
Has the Government accepted the acquisition policy prepared by the Gallery Council. 
If the Government has not accepted the acquisition policy, what is the view of the Government about changes which may be made in such a policy. 
I shall refer to a number of provisions in this Bill in some detail. I indicate that the Opposition opposes, for reasons which were indicated during the debate at the second reading stage, all provisions in the Bill. I refer to clause 1 initially which provides that this Bill shall be referred to as the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill. I should say that it has nothing to do with employment provisions. The provisions of this Bill are disemployment provisions. They deal with the termination of employment and not with conditions of employment. Even the title of the legislation is inaccurate and misleading. 
In relation to clause 2 the Opposition is concerned about the date of proclamation of the legislation but reminds the Senate that, as from the time it is proclaimed, it does not only refer to people employed at the Redfern Mail Exchange but, by virtue of the definitions clause, refers to every employee of the Commonwealth of Australia whether employed directly by the Public Service Board or employed by statutory corporations subject to the aegis of the Commonwealth of Australia. Let me refer particularly to the definitions clause of the legislation. The definitions of 'Commonwealth employee' and employing authority' are extremely wide. The expression 'employing authority' in this legislation has to be seen in connection with the provisions of clause 13 of the Bill which provides that the employing authority may, either generally or otherwise, delegate to a person all its powers under this Act other than the power of delegation. What that means in theory at least is that an employing authority, whether it be the Public Service Board or the board of a statutory corporation, may delegate the functions prescribed under this legislation to some person in a position of authority down the line who is capable of making a decision about terminating employment, suspending employees or matters of stand-down. This is an extraordinary piece of legislation in the breadth of its scope in relation to that matter. It could be a person from the Minister- or for that matter any Minister, if the legislation is to be relied on- down to a relatively insignificant person down the chain of authority in Commonwealth employment to whom these powers may be delegated. 
I refer again to the definitions clause and the width of the expression 'Commonwealth employee '. A lot was said in the course of the second reading debate this morning about the existence of section 66 of the Public Service Act. This government of glorious halcyon days of R. G. Menzies, Harold Holt and the rest of them did not see fit to use that section although it displayed the same sorts of attitudes as have been displayed here today from time to time. In all that period it was never used. Apparently it is not to be used by this Government. Of course, there are two important stipulations in section 66 of the Public Service Act which those speakers on the Government side who referred to it today did not see fit to point out. Section 66 of the Public Service Act provides that this action can be taken in relation to dismissal of striking public servants only after investigation and hearing by the Public Service Board. That is the pernicious distinction between that legislation and this legislation. No investigation and hearing are provided for in this legislation. It is a quite arbitrary, discretionary decision of a Minister or an employing authority. The discretion is vested in him or in the employing authority. There is no question of an investigation and hearing. 
-And no appeal either. 
-I ask the Minister to bear with me for a moment. Section 66 of the Public Service Act also deals only with the question of strikes. If honourable senators look at the legislation now before the Committee, they will see that it defines not strikes but industrial action. That is a much wider definition than a definition of strikes as contained in section 66 of the Public Service Act. It really is the sloppiest definition one could possibly imagine. It refers, first of all, to industrial action as meaning:  the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed - 
I wish to repeat that definition:  the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed - 
That is an extraordinarily bizarre view of what is involved in industrial reaction. 
-Theoretically, but I think that that is an example which would be regarded as extreme even by the present Government. The fact of the matter is that, putting it at its highest, it means that an employee who devises a perhaps more satisfactory way of doing work in the Public Service from that which was custom and practice in the year 1900 would potentially be penalised under this legislation for doing the work in that way. That is the inference that can be drawn from the drafting of the legislation itself. 
The legislation refers also to the adoption of a practice in relation to work, whatever that means. It does not say 'a bad practice'. It refers to the adoption of a practice in relation to work resulting in a restriction or limitation on or a delay in the performance of work that may result. Clause 3 (b) refers to a ban or limitation on work or on the acceptance of an offer for work. The expression 'acceptance or offering for work' is usually understood to relate to the terms and conditions of a contract of employment. Its usage in this definitions clause is quite extraordinary. Sub-clause (c) refers to an unauthorised failure or refusal by persons to attend for work. I ask honourable senators: What on earth is an unauthorised failure? What would be an authorised failure? The term 'unauthorised failure' is an extraordinary grammatical construction. I look for enlightenment from honourable senators opposite as to under what circumstances the Government would authorise failure in the contest of this definition. Again, I state that it is an extraordinarily sloppy piece of drafting which is symptomatic of the Government's lack of understanding and apparent incapacity to convey its intentions to the draftsman. 
There are a number of other matters related in the definitions clause which I do not want to deal with in great detail at this time. I will go on to deal with clauses 4, 5 and 7 of the Bill. I make these points: First of all, clause 4 deals with the question of suspension of Commonwealth employees who are engaged in industrial action. I made the point earlier that the right to suspend an employee is one which has not been accorded to employers by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in this country and since about 1 870 has not been accorded to an employer at common law by the courts. This point is made again simply to indicate the neanderthal nature of this legislation in terms of the conceptual basis upon which it is apparently drafted. It is extraordinary. The Fraser Government has quite rightly become a unique government. There are all sorts of reasons why it might be described as a unique government. But with the introduction of this legislation, it has become a unique government in that it abrogates to itself the right to suspend employees. For all sorts of reasons which are sound in arbitral principle, that right has not been accorded elsewhere. 
Clause 5, which contains the stand-down provisions, places no onus of proof on the Government to state why it has stood down employees. Again the clause contains some quite extraordinary provisions.  Senator Knight  in his speech referred to what he described as the classic stand-down clauses in the metal trades award. Before that clause was inserted in the metal trades award or before any stand-down clause is inserted in any award, the employer has to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and show the Commission good cause why such a clause should be inserted in the award. 
-I know that  Senator Knight  made that point. He went on to quote the provisions of the metal trades stand-down clause. The metal trades stand-down clause offers a number of circumstances in which employers may be entitled to stand down employees. The purpose of a stand-down clause is to relieve the employer of economic loss occasioned by circumstances which are totally beyond his control. In the arbitration jurisdiction it is always a moot question whether disputes arising industrially are beyond the employer's control if they are disputes in the employer's establishment. 
This clause is unique in that it provides that employees of the Public Service can be stood down when they cannot be usefully employed, whether the employees who created that situation are in the Public Service or not. There is no reference, as there is in the metal trades award, to breakdown of machinery. Under this Bill there can be a breakdown of machinery, with hundreds of public servants affected and unable to do their work, but they cannot be stood down. There can be a situation where hundreds of public servants are unable to do their work because of a variety of factors, including the action of outside employers, manufacturers or this Governmentquite a possibility- and they cannot be stood down. The only circumstance in which they can be stood down, relating to employment outside the Public Service, is if there has been a stoppage of work by employees outside the Public Service. The Government is trying to divide the trade union movement, as it is trying to divide society. It is trying to say to the public servants: 'If you are stood down under this clause it is the fault of those fellows over in Western Australia who refused to load the ship'. This provision would enable the Government to stand people down in those circumstances. 
There are a number of provisions in the following clauses which deal with the circumstances in which an employee may be dismissed. There are provisions relating, first of all, to cancellation and then to termination of declarations relating to stand down. There is a normal provision in the sense that people who are stood down will not be paid. In clause 8 the question of dismissal is dealt with specifically. I understand that it has been said by some Government senators that there is no right of summary dismissal under this legislation and that people must be suspended first. That is perfectly true. Legislation of an industrial kind is always designed and construed to protect the interests of the employee; that is to say, the employee normally is provided with rights by legislation. This provision enables the employer to stand an employee down after a suspension of no specified period. An employee can be suspended for 4 hours and if that does not work his employment can be terminated at the end of that 4 hours. 
The next matter to which I wish to advert is that of revocation of dismissal, which is dealt with in clause 8 (3). This sub-clause provides that an employing authority can revoke the termination of employment of a Commonwealth employee and direct that the employee shall, during the period of termination, be regarded as being suspended. That, in itself - 
I am grateful that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has spoken on this issue at last. In the whole of this debate, which is described as important by the Government, not one Minister has seen fit to take part except for  Senator Durack  's one-minute contribution last night. This is interesting comment on the degree of faith which the Government apparently has in this legislation. Earlier I was dealing with the question of dismissal under clause 8. 1 just make the point that there is an extraordinary piece of drafting or conceptual thought behind this because it provides that if a person's employment is terminated under this legislation the employing authority can at a later stage decide that the employment was not terminated at all and that the person was only suspended. That is the effect of the legislation. That is an extraordinary provision having regard to the law of contract of employment. The simple fact of the matter is that at common law employment is terminated or not terminated. It cannot be terminated and then later, because of afterthought or hindsight, be decided that it was not really terminated but the employee was only suspended. 
I am interested to know what would happen to a public servant whose employment was terminated under a declaration made under this legislation and who subsequently was told that his employment was not terminated. What are his rights after he has been told that his employment is terminated? Does he have to wait to find out whether the employing authority is going to change its mind about whether he was employed by the Public Service Board or by some other State instrumentality? Again it is an extraordinary invasion of the rights of employees in this community to provide sloppy legislation like this in relation to a fundamental question like the determination of a contract of employment. 
There are just one or two other matters on which I wish to comment and with which the 
Minister purported to deal. A few minutes ago the Minister artificially sought to suggest that this legislation was very much the same as provisions in the Public Service Arbitration Act. One would think that the Minister had not been in the chamber all day. He has. The analogy which he seeks to draw between the provision in the Public Service Act and the provision in this legislation is something which makes the point precisely of the entire and fundamental criticism of this legislation. Under the Public Service Act the employing authority has to go to an arbitral or quasi judicial authority to seek to have the stand-down provision included in the award or determination. That application has to be judged by somebody who is quite impartial to the employment relationship. That is the position under the Public Service Act. But it is not the position under this legislation. 
In this Bill there is no requirement for the employing authority or for the Minister or for somebody to whom the authority is delegated to go anywhere to get authority to take unilateral action by way of termination of employment, suspension of employment or stand-down of employees. That is the essential and transparent difference, and the Minister in trying to explain away this legislation in a cloud of empty rhetoric pretends that it is the same sort of legislation as the Public Service Act. It is not. The difference between the two pieces of legislation makes the pricise point about the perniciousness of this legislation. Under this legislation the act of the employing authority is not subject to any sort of outside judicial assessment of the unilateral exercise of rights by the employer, and that is the distinction. The other distinction is that in proceedings under the Public Service Act, questions such as termination of employment, suspension in employment or other matters which may be dealt with under this legislation are all subject to appeal. They are not subject to appeal in the legislation before us. That is the extraordinary and fundamental omission from this legislation. For the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to go on about the Ombudsman, for goodness sake, and about rights at common law being preserved - 
I am sorry. It was the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  not the Minister, who said that the Ombudsman would deal with the matters. 
-Mr Fraser said that the Ombudsman would deal with the matter. Imagine 400 sacked public servants queueing up before Professor Richardson to have their standdown orders dealt with! What a lot of rubbish. Of course, the Minister rightly disowns the view of the Prime Minister on this issue. The second thing which the Minister said is that the employees have rights at common law. I would have thought that this legislation covers the field in respect of this matter, and it is absolutely ridiculous to say that the employees have rights at common law. The Prime Minister on this point is probably more correct than is the Minister when he said that the only rights they might have would be by way of prerogative writ. If he is telling the average employee in Australia, on average earnings, that he can go to the High Court and get this matter dealt with by way of prerogative writ, it illustrates the absolute farcity of this legislation and the absolute ill-conceived nature of the drafting and the concepts behind it. I do not wish to delay the Committee on other clauses of the Bill because I understand that at least one other honourable senator wishes to speak at the Committee stage. But let us not have these woolly explanations of faulty drafting and extraordinary concepts. 
-The Senate is debating the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill 1977. Last night, in introducing this legislation, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  spoke for precisely one minute. Perhaps that was because he did not understand the legislation which was being introduced, like his colleagues who sought to explain the Budget which was introduced in this chamber on Tuesday; or perhaps that is all he thinks this legislation is worth- one minute of the Government's time. Today, on the other hand, the Senate is sitting at the cost of thousands of dollars of the Australian taxpayers' money to deal with this legislation which the Minister told us last night it is not the immediate intention of the Government to proclaim. It is legislation which the Opposition has not had proper time to consider. It is quite apparent from public statements made by Ministers on television and radio and in the Press that it is legislation which the Government has not had time adequately to consider. It is also apparent that many Ministers just do not understand what it is all about. 
The reason for the introduction of the legists lation is, of course, quite simple. It is to distract attention from an ill-conceived and harsh Budget by a display of industrial muscle. Unfortunately the muscle is in the head of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and not in his arm. It is an example of the politics of desperation which has been displayed in this chamber on a number of occasions in the last week or so. It is also a classic example of political diversionary stunting. 
Again and again we have discussed in this chamber the Government's two-handed attitudes and its complete confusion in relation to industrial matters. There are two streams of thought in this Government's industrial relations thinking. They are two streams of thought which we have discussed here before and which we will continue to discuss in the hope that there may be some clarification from members of the Government of what is their real position. 
The first stream of thought, of course, comes from what industrial relations experts tell them and what the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission repeatedly tell them in one way or another. That simply is that one cannot solve industrial problems of this kind in the way in which this legislation purports to do. 
The second stream of thought in the Government 's thinking is that which is widely advocated by  Senator Steele  Hall, for example, and which really relates to the sort of primitive instincts of members of the Government in trying to grapple with these problems. It is a view which has its origins in the nineteenth century. One can well imagine the Prime Minister of this country saying: 'Together with all the problems with which I am confronted, such as unemployment and all those things, I also have an industrial relations problem. My grandfather,  Sir Simon  Fraser, never had problems quite like this'. Unfortunately for members of the Government we do not now live in the nineteenth century. We are living in the year 1977 in a complex industrial society in which these problems are not susceptible to those blunt, simple-minded and apparently easy solutions. The whole problem, as we have said in this chamber again and again, requires some degree of subtlety, some degree of compromise and some degree of consultation with all the parties concerned. 
Time and time again the Prime Minister has uttered pious statements which indicate that his industrial relations advisers have been at him and writing his speeches again for him and in which he explains the point that the only way in which to deal with industrial relations satisfactorily is on a consensual basis- by discussion and negotiation. The importance of resolving these problems by negotiation has been stressed in numerous speeches which the Prime Minister has made. But every now and again he just cannot contain himself any longer. Every now and again he looks up what his grandfather would have done in a similar situation and goes back to the method of the big stick, which is brandished again and again and which leads him into a situation of ultimate frustration because it is not a way of solving these problems. We saw that never more clearly manifest than at the time of the air traffic controllers strike. The Prime Minister blustered his way around this country and in the end the resolution of the air traffic controllers strike was left to Bob Hawke. 
The Prime Minister, of course, is not alone in this confusion about attitudes to industrial relations. The Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony),  who again has been loud-mouthing his way around the country recently, had certain things to say in a speech made in Queensland only a week or two ago when pontificating on these issues. He referred to the whole problem of industrial disputes and said to his National Country Party audience: 
Some of you may ask what we are doing about it? 
Well they might ask him what he is doing about it. He went on to say: 
Why doesn't the Government curb the powers of the agitators in the unions? 

 Mr Anthony answered his own question by saying: 
Well, such direct action would be playing into the hands of these anti-democratic elements in trade unions. 
He went on to say: 
Our task is to inject greater responsibility into unions and industrial relations. We want to see the great majority of ordinary members of trade unions, decent working men and women, having their say. 
He goes on to say: 
The measures we have taken are all designed to strengthen the hand of ordinary members within the union. It remains to be seen, however, whether measures like this will significantly improve our labour relations record. But make no mistake about it, if there is going to be defiance we will act. 
There we have the Jekyll and Hyde approach in the mind of the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, the Leader of the National Country Party. Last night  Mr Sinclair,  the Minister for Primary Industry, fresh from his excursions into the world of undertakers, went back on to a national television program to tell the living that the Government wants to put public servants in Australia into exactly the same position as employees in private industry. That is a lie. This legislation does not put public servants into the same position as employees in private industry. It puts them in a position which no employee in private industry in this country has been put in since the beginning of the 20th century. The Minister said these sorts of things to the people of Australia on television last night in an apparent explanation of this absurd legislation. 
The totally ineffectual Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations boasted about the low level of industrial unrest in Australia on the one hand and at the same time introduced legislation of this kind into the Parliament as an apparent matter of emergency in circumstances which are an insult to the Parliament itself. 
What does the legislation seek to do apart from distracting attention from the Government's own ineptitude? Stated quite simply, firstly it seeks to empower an employing authority, which is a body which employs persons paid by the Commonwealth, to dismiss or suspend an employee who takes part in what is very loosely defined in the legislation as industrial action. We will deal with the definition of industrial action when we come to it at the Committee stage of this Bill. It is a bizarre definition. It is an insult to this Parliament that the draftsman has put it there. Perhaps he should be an early victim of this legislation as a person paid by the Commonwealth. 
Secondly the legislation enables the employing authority to stand down any employee who cannot be usefully employed because of industrial action taken by fellow government employees or, interestingly enough, employees in private industry. Thirdly it empowers a Minister to assume all these functions to himself if, in his discretion, the circumstances warrant it. 
Let us look at these three essential concepts of the legislation in some greater detail. I said that the legislation gives the right to terminate employment because of participation in industrial action, whatever that is supposed to mean. It gives a quite unfettered right which is unavailable to any employer in this country other than the Commonwealth, a right which this Government has not the constitutional power in a direct sense to give to any other employer in this country. It gives to this Government a right which is contrary to the common law and which is contrary to decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission developed since the inception of this body in 1904. It gives a right which is contrary to the spirit and intent of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for which this Government loudmouths its support at every opportunity. The provisions of this legislation are totally inconsistent with the spirit and intent of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
At common law and in the awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission an employee cannot be summarily dismissed unless in circumstances of serious and wilful misconduct such as if he is drunk on the job, if he steals something or if he drops the boss. They are classic examples of serious and wilful misconduct which would justify, under common law, instant dismissal, but in no other circumstances is an employer in this country entitled to do what the Fraser Government now seeks power to do- to dismiss a person summarily, except in those circumstances of serious and wilful misconduct. 
-We will hear from the honourable senator. I know about his bunyip expertise on these matters. He will have the opportunity to tell us about it. Not only is the right included in this legislation to dismiss a person in those circumstances but the employee so dismissed is not even given a right of appeal. He does have a right of appeal under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and he does have a right of appeal at common law. In this Bill that is denied to him. I should point out for the benefit of honourable senators on the Government side who seem ignorant of these matters that industrial action has never been defined as serious and wilful misconduct in this country. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act, by its own terminology, does not outlaw strikes as such and at common law in Australia and in Great Britain strikes are not illegal. But under this Bill industrial action in any of its forms is proscribed as being illegal for the purposes of the penalty provisions. 
-The penalty is the sack; to lose your job.  Senator Douglas  McClelland reminds me of the very serious consequences which flow in the second half of this century, in terms of accrued rights for holidays, long service leave and things of that kind, for employees who are dismissed. 
Secondly, the legislation gives the employing authority, or, by implication, the Minister, a right to suspend an employee. That is a right which is not and has not been available to an employer under the English common law but it is a right which this Government now seeks to take upon itself in defiance of decisions of the courts of ' England and of Australia over many, many years. For the first time in the history of a country3 of this kind a government in Australia seeks to take upon itself that right which the pronouncements of courts over the years have denied to employers. The right to suspend has never been conceded to an employer in Australia by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Again it is a right which this Government seeks to abrogate to itself. 
Thirdly, there is a proposal in this legislation that the employing authority or the Minister should have the right to stand down in circumstances in which the employee cannot be usefully employed. Again for the benefit of Government supporters, the law on this matter is quite clear in Australia. You can stand down an employee but the onus of establishing the reasons for standing down an employee is firmly fixed on the employer. That was the situation until the introduction of this Bill by the Fraser Government, the new employer under Malcolm Fraser 's new Utopia. That is nowhere better expressed than in a recent decision of  Mr Justice  Sharp in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. He had this to say about stand-down provisions in awards: 
I do not accept the contention . . . that standing down employees without pay should be an employer's right if that were the most convenient way of avoiding economic loss. The concept that it was management's prerogative to use labour at will has had no place in western society for many decades. 
The concept that it was management's right to stand down labour at will has had no place for many decades in Western society other than Australian society under  Mr Malcolm  Fraser after this legislation is passed.  Mr Justice  Sharp went on to say: 
It has been replaced by the concept that the use of the labour of human beings is a privilege accorded to management on defined terms. 
The privilege here is not to be according to defined terms; it is to be an absolute privilege relying on the discretion of the employing authority. The decision continued: 
One of those terms is that reasonable security of earnings be assured to the labourer. This is the purpose of the notice clause in awards and very substantial grounds must exist for this Commission to include any provision which would enable it to be abrogated, even temporarily, by unilateral action. 
There may, however, be circumstances when both the employer and those employed would want to avoid the extreme measure of terminating employment. It is for this situation that stand down provisions should exist and should contain adequate safeguards. If that consensus- 
That is a consensus reached between the employer and the employed -  is not present then, as I have already indicated, this Commission must be persuaded that there are exceptional and substantial reasons based on the facts of that occasion for its intervention. 
That is the law as it now stands in Australia until this legislation presumably is passed by the Senate acting in its capacity as a House of review. Looking at some of the National Country Party senators dozing off, I do not think we will get much critical review from them of this legislation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Button,  I do not want you tending to disparage other senators. 
-No, certainly not. In these provisions no onus of proof is required of the Government or the employing authority. Of course this is a most extraordinary and pernicious provision. The other interesting thing about it is that the Government or the employing authority may stand down any public servant who cannot be gainfully employed as a result of industrial action by Public Service employees or by employees in private industry. Suppose that a public servant cannot be usefully employed as a result of industrial action by employees in private industry, perhaps action by the Australian Cattlemen's Union refusing to supply meat or as a result of the Government making cuts in the Australian Broadcasting Commission budget which mean that a number of producers and other persons cannot be usefully employed any more. Is it suggested that the Government should apply to them a standard different from the standard applicable to other employees? That is a matter which really illustrates the intent of this legislation. As I said before, the intent is to divert attention from the inadequacies of the Government in other areas. 
Finally, let me point out that there is no right of appeal. In all the employment circumstances to which I have referred the common law, the awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and so on ensure a right of appeal to the employee. Under this legislation there is no right of appeal at all irrespective of the merits of the matter. Listening to the  AM  program this morning I had the extraordinary experience of hearing the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  explaining why he had not voted against this legislation in the Lower House.  Mr Haslem  said he was very upset about there being no right of appeal in this legislation. He thought it was a very bad thing in principle, representing as he does a large number of public servants. He said: 'I think it is a very bad thing in principle, but I have been assured by the Prime Minister and certain senior senators'- I would love to know who they were- 'that there is of course a right of appeal in a roundabout way. If anybody is sacked or loses his job he can go to the 
Commonwealth Ombudsman and get it fixed up or alternatively he can take out a prerogative writ to get his employment back '. 
What an extraordinary suggestion. I want to let Commonwealth public servants throughout Australia, whether they be transport workers, clerical workers or workers engaged in technical grades, know that if they are dismissed under this legislation they have the assurance of the Prime Minister that they can have their solicitor take out a prerogative writ in the High Court on their average weekly earnings. Perhaps then they will get their employment back. 
An assurance was given by the Prime Minister to the Public Service employees of Australia in 1975 that wage indexation would be maintained, that Medibank would be maintained, and that he would reduce unemployment by 200,000. The same man is now giving public servants assurances about their future m employment under this legislation. The suggestion is: 'You can go off and take out a prerogative writ '. That is the value of that sort of assurance to employees in the Public Service. On the basis of that rather banal and extraordinarily nitwitted explanation, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  abandoned his high principle on this issue and, as the representative of public servants in this city, retreated into the womb of the Liberal Party. 
The only other point I make specifically about the legislation is that it provides in clause 14 for any matters not satisfactorily covered by the legislation to be dealt with by regulation. I would have thought that such a principle would make an honourable senator like  Senator Wright  turn in his bed. I only hope that that did not happen to him last night. I said at the beginning that the introduction of this legislation was a diversionary tactic by the Government, a tactic of desperation and a tactic of frustration. One thing that honourable senators on the Government side can never get into their heads is that in an industrial relations climate we cannot make people work if they do not want to.  Senator Steele  Hall is a great advocate of the view that somehow, by this sort of legislation, we can make people work. Since he abandoned his position of principled independence in the Senate he has hardly made a speech here. I do not know what we would need to make him work. I do not know whether he comes under this legislation. If he does, he is a classic example of the sort of person who should be the recipient of the legislation. We know that we cannot make  Senator Hall  work. 
It is a ridiculous proposition that if, in an industrial relations climate, people do not want to work, then we can make them work by means of a big stick. I think it is very important that the basic philosophy of this legislation in this regard be attacked. The Australian Labor Party which I represent does not condone for one moment stoppages which are of concern and upsetting to the public interest in circumstances of the kind which may be envisaged by this legislation. The fact of the matter is that there is no way to solve this sort of problem by using the sorts of methods which this Government now seeks to use. 

 - Senator Lewis provokes me. There was a dispute in the Redfern Mail Exchange in 1973. The honourable senator was not around at the time.  Mr Bowen,  the then Minister, went to the Redfern Mail Exchange and talked to the workers about their problems. The matter was settled.  Mr Street  would have neither the integrity nor the guts to go to the Redfern Mail Exchange and talk to the workers in that way. And he is a responsible Minister. We are very firmly of the view that this is not the way to go about the matter and it will not produce a satisfactory result. If we take this sort of proposal to its logical consequence- that is to say, if people in a complex industrial society concerned with the advancement of their economic interests and working conditions, for one reason or another take unilaterial action- then we have to be consistent about the matter. The Government has to say to the Cattlemen's Union when its members refuse to bring cattle to market: 'We have to have some legislation for you fellows. We have to make you work.' The Government has to say the same to the doctors when they refuse their labour and to the New South Wales hospitals workers, as  Senator Grimes  points out. The Government must be consistent about the matter. We know pretty well that it cannot be consistent about it in the terms of this sort of legislation. So the logical consequences of this type of action are absurd. 
In conclusion I say this to the Government: It has again, as it did during the air traffic controllers strike, put itself on a hook by introducing this legislation here. The only way the Government can get off that hook is as it did last time, by going to Bob Hawke and asking him to fix things up. That is what will happen. This morning, while this Government in the interests of political stunting is seeking to enact this legislation in this chamber, the General Manager of Australia Post is telephoning the union secretary suggesting a 7-day cooling period at Redfern and further discussions between the parties. That is what is happening this morning while this collection of industrial troglodytes continues the debate on this legislation in the Parliament. Again I say in the real circumstances of this debate that honourable senators opposite do not even know what is going on. A proper solution to this matter is again being sought elsewhere, outside this Parliament. I hope that in time Bob Hawke will get the Government off the hook again. 
In the course of the discussion of the provisions of this Bill I raise a number of legal matters. It is important that this House of review should take the same attitude as Australia Post and seek a cooling off period in the particular dispute to which I understand the legislation is supposed to be directed. Of course, it is scatter legislation which covers the whole Public Service area of employment. The importance in this legislation for this so-called House of review is that the sorts of principles of the common law, of the arbitration system and of statutory draftsmanship to which I have referred should not be condoned by the Senate. Accordingly, I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
That practice has been hallowed by the present Government in opposition over a number of years and adopted by it. I move the amendment because it will provide time for the hotheads on the Government side to get more sense and consult Bob Hawke, and it will give the Senate the opportunity to exercise its proper function as a House of review, to review the principles of common law and arbitration in this country which are being overturned by this legislation. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Can he yet tell the Senate what the function of the special broadcasting commission which the Government has announced will be? Has the Government received a report from officers of the Department recommending that no political programs be broadcast on ethnic radio and recommending that there be no further access radio in foreign languages? Will the Minister table in the Senate a copy of this report? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
1 ) How many cases of (a) syphilis, and (b) gonorrhoea, have been reported in each State and Australia in each of the years from 1970 to 1976 inclusive. 
How many syphilitic babies have been born in Australia in each of the years from 1 970 to 1 976 inclusive. 
How many venereal disease clinics presently operate on both a State and nation-wide bases and where are these clinics located. 
How are these clinics funded; if so, what proportion, if any, of their total funding does the Federal Government provide. 
) Has the Federal Government considered conducting a nation-wide campaign to (a) alert the general public to the rising incidence of venereal disease in the community, and 
in the event of suspected cases, where members of the general public can receive confidential medical help and advice. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that  Mr Eggleton,  the Federal Director of the Liberal Party, has written to Government Ministers saying that the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party will become a major policy formulating body for the Government and that in pursuit of this objective it will require direct access to Government departments? 
I rise to a point of order.  Senator Walters  is not asking a question, she is making a statement. Statements should not be made at question time. The honourable senator has already asked her question. 
-The Senate is dealing with the Family Law Amendment Bill, which the Opposition does not oppose. There are only a couple of points in the Bill that I want to mention. This Bill follows from the referendum on the Constitution in May this year relating to the retiring age of judges. This was assented to in July of this year and empowered the Commonwealth to fix a retiring age for judges. This is being done in relation to the Family Court. I add only that this was a matter which was the subject of some discussion by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs when it was dealing with the Family Law Bill a couple of years ago. I think it is true to say that it was the unanimous view of the Committee at that time that because of the social implications and the age groups of people involved in the dissolution of marriage, it was desirable that there should be on the Family Court of Australia, if possible, younger judges whose views may be considered to be more in touch with the views of the generation most affected by marriage break-up. I think the Committee at that time expressed that view quite clearly in its report. Subsequently, the same Committee, in dealing with the question of the retiring age of judges last year, again commented on the desirability of a fixed retiring age for judges and a reduced age forjudges in the Family Court of Australia. This legislation is consistent with the referendum proposal and with the two reports of that Senate Committee. It has the full approval of the Opposition for the reasons which I have indicated, and the Opposition wishes it a speedy passage through the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a Press conference given by  Mr Street,  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, following the passing by the Senate of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill last Friday. Referring to the question of what constituted industrial action, the Minister is reported as saying that the criteria for dismissal under the legislation would be an employee's continual history of industrial action and that once an employee was suspended that history would be looked at to determine the case for dismissal. I ask the Minister: Who will conduct that inquiry under the provisions of the legislation? Insofar as the comment of the Minister is concerned, is it intended that the legislation should be interpreted retrospectively in determining a history of industrial action? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Are there any plans to make the Moorabbin Airport in Melbourne into a Cargo Jet Port; if so, what are these plans? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that Telecom Australia is sponsoring, at a cost of some $100,000, a golf tournament to commence in Melbourne on 13 November? Is it not normal for sponsorship of sporting activities to be undertaken on an advertising basis by businesses in competition with one another? Has Telecom ever before been engaged in sporting sponsorships and, in view of its monopoly position, what is the rationale behind this particular sponsorship? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to a letter allegedly sent yesterday by  Mr David  Barnett, the Prime Minister's Press Secretary, to the former Attorney-General, to the contents of the letter, which have been published, and to the fact that in the letter  Mr Barnett  asserted in relation to the former Attorney-General that he had asked for and received authority to guide the journalist who wrote the article in the  Canberra Times  which was influential in the resignation of the former Attorney-General. I ask: Is it correct that the Prime Minister's Press Secretary did ask for and did receive authority to guide the journalist in respect of this matter? If so, what is the Prime Minister's justification for a deliberate leak to the Press behind a Minister's back in an attempt to force that Minister's hand? Thirdly, is it correct that on previous occasions  Mr David  Barnett has sought and received authority to guide journalists in matters relating to the responsibilities of other Ministers in this Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice, on 30 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has the Minister received an application for a public broadcasting licence from the Tamworth Broadcasting Society. 
What action, if any, is the Minister taking in respectof this and similar applications for public broadcasting licences. 
When was the application from the Tamworth Broadcasting Society received. 
When will the application be dealt with. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What progress has the Minister's Department made in planning the future use of the radio spectrum. 
How many frequencies are available in the FM band for use by radio stations now in: 
Melbourne; (b) Sydney; (c) Adelaide; (d) Brisbane; (e) Perth; and (f) Hobart. 
How many such frequencies is it anticipated will be available in each of the above cities in 1 982. 
My question, which is addressed to  Senator Withers  as Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, follows a question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland to which the Minister gave an answer indicating that speculation about possible resource taxes was not, in his view, a profitable exercise. I refer the Minister to the statement made yesterday by the  Chairman  of the Uranium Producers Forum,  Mr Mackay,  that the present Government was drunk with power. That comment was made in relation to statements which have been made by Ministers of the Government concerning a proposed resources tax. My question is not related to speculation; it is related to current facts. I ask the Minister In view of the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister expressing one view in relation to a resources tax and the statement made by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  expressing another view in relation to a resources tax, what is the present policy of the Government in relation to a resources tax? Which of those two people is expressing the Government's policy? Is the Federal Minister or the Queensland Premier, in his interpretation of the views of the Prime Minister, expressing the correct view? To which resource commodities will the tax apply in accordance with present Government statements? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 August 1977: 
Was Australia one of three member nations of the United Nations to vote against the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 A(XXIV) of 16 December 1969, which extended the Geneva protocol to tear gas and herbicides; if so, why. 
Does the Australian Government still maintain this attitude; if so, why, and under what circumstances would the Government change this attitude. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
1 ) What are to be the precise functions of the proposed Special Broadcasting Service. 
Has the Minister received a report from a committee comprised of officers of his Department and of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs relating to enthnic radio and access radio for ethnic minorities. 
Does the report recommend that there be a prohibition of political discussion on ethnic radio. 
Does the report recommend a virtual abandonment of access radio for ethnic communities. 
5 ) Is it the Government 's intention to act on this report. 
Will the report be tabled in the Parliament; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
Does the Government intend to make any finance available to the Commisson of Inquiry into Poverty to advertise publicly the Inquiry's published research reports and the fourteen reports which still remain to be published; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 22 April 1977: 
1 ) What current research is being undertaken into the use of solar energy by (a) the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation; (b) Australian University departments; and (c) any other, and what, bodies in Australia. 
What was the total amount spent on solar energy research in 1976. 
What mechanisms are available for co-ordinating research done by the various bodies referred to in ( 1 ). 
-The purpose of this Bill was explained to some degree by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech. It can be simply stated as a Bill to enable the Commonwealth to act as a guarantor for loans raised by nongovernment schools in the States to finance building projects which have been approved by the Schools Commission. I mention the States because a similar arrangement has operated in the territories for a much longer period. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill in its specific purposes which I have just described briefly. The Bill will, one hopes, encourage initiative in the construction of non-government school buildings. We hope that in the course of time it will do something to stimulate the building industry in this country, a stimulation which the Government clearly is not prepared to give in any other context but which it may of course indirectly give by this measure in a small degree. We regard it as important that buildings erected by nongovernment schools are to be considered in the light of the Schools Commission priorities; that is to say, that the Bill will ensure a rational allocation of Commonwealth Government funds which will in a sense be supervised by the Schools Commission. 
The Opposition trusts and hopes that the Minister will not direct the Schools Commission as to which projects should receive priority. If he were to do so it would once again be tangible, visible bricks and mortar proof of this Government's sneaky addiction to the cause of category one and two private schools, the wealthy private schools, the cause of which has been debated in this Parliament back and forth for a number of years now and which we on this side of the House are quite firm about in the context of priorities. 
I mentioned the question of any action that the Minister might take in relation to this legislation. In a series of public utterances recently m which one suspects that he protests too much about the Government's attitude to the question of educational needs the Minister really has been saying this: 'We can put up an argument to say that schools in Australia generally are better off than they have been for many years. We can put up an argument which shows that the government schools of this country are getting more than they used to get a number of years ago. Because we can put up those sorts of arguments we can now indulge ourselves a little in our own private fantasy. We can indulge ourselves in our own cherished wish of giving a little more money for wealthy private schools. ' This was nowhere more explicitly and clearly stated by the Minister than in a  PM  program on 8 September this year. The transcript of the PM program shows that  Senator Carrick  said: 
Because of course we can prove as the Schools Commission has shown in its report - 
That is of course debatable- that we are giving much more additional funds to the government schools through the new federalism funding to which the States are responding, but more than that, the government schools, and I say thank goodness for this, are improving at a rate beyond the target of the modified Karmel projection. In other words, they are achieving their targets faster than was thought they would. 
That seems to me to be quite an explicit statement by the Minister of an opportunity for indulgence by the Government in connection with wealthy private schools. That of course is what has been done. I mention the Minister's attitude as expressed in that statement which seems to me to be typical of a number of statements which have been made recently since the guidelines were put down for the Schools Commission in June. They are, of course, quite fundamental to this whole question of educational expenditure which has been the subject of debate here for a long time. Of course, what the Minister says in that statement is correct. He says that more money is available. Later in the same interview he described with great charity the greater availability of money to schools as an 'historical trend '. This ' historical trend ' is worth referring to again in the context of an education debate in September 1977. 
In terms of what the Minister is talking about, the 'historical trend' began in 1972 and 1973 with a quite massive injection of funds by the then Labor Government which amounted to something like a 41 per cent increase in real terms on federal expenditure in education. It was on the basis of the development of the historical trend in those three years of government that the Minister is now able to make the statements which he has been making recently and which I described earlier as an indulgence which he is allowing himself at this time, an indulgence which we trust, as I say, he will not allow himself in relation to the present legislation. Perhaps we can get some better understanding of the legislation and its ramifications at the Committee stage of the debate. 
The whole attitude on this question indicates a fundamental disagreement and departure from the sorts of developments of 1973. The appointment of the Karmel Committee and its report represent a fundamental disagreement on this question of priorities and the establishment of the needs principle for funding education in schools. It takes us back to the whole question of the functions of the Schools Commission, the first Karmel Report, the modifications which were admittedly made to it and the very rapid increase in the improvement of conditions of Australian government schools and Australian independent schools during the period of the Labor Government. What has happened since? We believe that it was the hope of the vast majority of people concerned with education in Australia that this Government would be prepared to accept just one thing, that it would be prepared to accept in a quite undiluted way the principle of needs which was established by the Karmel Committee and which was, of course, at the very basis of the Schools Commission legislation and the establishment of that Commission. What has happened since? When this Government came to power constant lip service was given in the early stages to the needs principle and the functions of the Schools Commission. Commonwealth aid to education in the first two years of this Government's term of office, as distinct from the first part of the historical trend as the Minister called it, when there was a 41 per cent increase in education expenditure, dropped to an annual average increase of approximately one per cent. That continued until the introduction of the guidelines in June of this year. 
I shall refer briefly to the guidelines because, as I say they are fundamental to the current discussion. They project in a dramatic and public way the clash between the principle of needs, as we thought it was established, in the interests of all Australian children and the views of the present Government. It was projected perhaps not in a dramatic way in terms of sums of money but in a dramatic way in terms of intent and priorities as the Government sees them and as the Schools Commission sees them. I refer to the Schools Commission report of August 1977 and the comments which the Schools Commission had to make about the guidelines and the responsibilities which the guidelines allegedly imposed. I refer first of all to the chapter dealing with the priority of particular guidelines. In paragraph 3. 1 3, the Commission had this to say: 
. Following the consideration listed in paragraph 3.2 (b), that, except in extraordinary circumstances, no transfers should be made from less well provided for schools to benefit those better provided for, the Commission decided that for 1978 it could not support the proposition that the extra $2m be found by reductions of allocations for government schools. . . . 
I repeat that the Commission could not support the proposition that the extra $2m be found by reductions of allocations for government schools. It is a quite clear and explicit re-statement of the understanding of the needs principle and a quite specific rejection of the attitude of the Government towards that principle. In the next paragraph, dealing with the question of capital grants to non-government schools, the Commission had this to say: 
Although it acknowledges the severe shortage of capital funds for both government and non-government schools and is aware of the pressure to make non-government schooling available in newly developing areas, the Commission does not believe that the situation in 1978 warrants the transfer of $3m out of other programs to make this possible. 
The situation in 1978 to which the Commission is referring of course is that of minimal growth in education expenditure. It goes on to say: 
The Commission has taken into account that the advance offer and loans guarantee provisions - 
The legislation we are now debating- introduced in 1 977 will assist in meeting some of the demand for additional new places. In circumstances where increased non-government capital funds could have been met out of an expanding total of funds, the Commission would seriously have considered such a priority although it would not necessarily have specified that such additional funds should be exclusively for new places. The no-growth circumstances of 1978 lead to different conclusions since the increased allocation would require an unjustified reduction elsewhere. 
In the summary of that section of the report the Commission came back to the question and said: 
The Commission having considered various options, consistent with the guidelines, for obtaining the additional $ 13.8m required for non-government schools - 
I emphasise that the additional $ 13.8m was required by the Government for nongovernment schools- decided that the Services and Development Program and the Special Projects Program should sustain $3. 5m of the cuts, non-government schools emergency assistance $0.3m, and the government schools general resources programs the remaining $ 10.0m. 
The details were set out in a later chapter. In the second paragraph of the summary the Commission said: 
In its analysis of relative priorities, however, the Commission was unable to justify in the present financial situation the requirements of the guidelines for an additional $2.0m for levels 1 and 2 schools or the additional $3.0m for capital for non-government schools in 1978 . . . 
I referred to those passages in detail because it is the practice of this Government, having found in a variety of areas of governmental endeavour that it could not do the things it promised the people of Australia it would do- perhaps it could not even perform them as competently as the most mediocre government imaginable might have been able to do them- to find all sorts of reasons for those things not having happened. There is hardly a statutory body in this country, an instrumentality of the Commonwealth Government in Australia, which has not been blamed at some stage or other for some inadequacy of the present Government. One calls to mind the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission, other organisations in the community such as trade unions, the consumers of Australia and all the people who have not responded as the Government had hoped they would. The Government believes that somehow those people obstructed it in its endeavours to fulfil its grandiose promises of 1975. Indeed it goes beyond Australia; it goes overseas to organisations like the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which the Government has blamed. But the point which is clearly painful to  Senator Martin  - 
-The point which is clearly painful to  Senator Martin  is quite different in the present context because what the Schools Commission has done has been quite clearly to make a stand on the principles upon which it was established- a stand on which it is in diametrical conflict with this Government which, as I said before, has indulged itself in the sorts of remarks which have been made consistently by the Minister for Education in recent weeks in defence of the Government's position. That is important in the wider context, not only because of the level of funding of education in Australia but because of the philisophical assumptions which underlie both positions. The philosophical assumptions which underlay the establishment of the Karmel Committee and the establishment of the Schools Commission were the priorities of needs and the concern to get rid of the debate in Australia over the funding to non-government schools which had divided this society for years. If there is no other achievement of the period of Labor Government which can be pointed to, it is that of getting rid of those years of acrimonious and socially divisive debate over the question of aid to non-government schools. Once again, as I have said, as an indulgence this Government resurrects the issue in the context of aid to category 1 and category 2 schools which has been the subject of the dispute between the Commission and the Government in recent weeks. 
Apart from that, as I indicated earlier, we do not object to the provisions of the present Bill. They are consistent with past practice in the Territories. They are desirable in overall terms from the point of view of the non-government sector. They are in a sense a neat way of providing Commonwealth Government financial support to the building endeavours of the private sector in education. On that basis the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
-These three Bills- the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill 1977, the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill 1 977 and the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Amendment Bill 1977- are being considered cognately. I have no comments to offer regarding the third Bill, which is a machinery measure to correct a drafting error in previous legislation. It is sufficient to say that and nothing more in relation to the Bill. The Opposition does not oppose any of the three Bills. The purpose of the Bills is quite apparent from the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and from the brief contents of the Bills themselves. The licence fees Bills make an additional imposition on the commercial television stations and the commercial broadcasting stations in relation to licence fees and increase the amounts payable by a percentage formula. What is done by these Bills is quite consistent with the Budget announcement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in relation to licence fees for broadcasting and television stations and is quite consistent with statements which have been made recently by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
What is interesting in the context of the present increase in licence fees for broadcasting and television stations is that in July of this year the nation's television stations announced the most dramatic increase in profits since the inception of television in Australia. For example, for the national stations profits increased from $21.5m in 1974-75 to $44m in the year ended 30 June 1976. In the same situation, commercial radio stations also had a dramatic increase in profits from $ 12.4m in the previous financial year to $ 16.2m in the last financial year, an increase of 30 per cent. If I may put it in these terms, the Government struck at an appropriate time to increase licence fees. By increasing licence fees at this time the Government has said to the commercial sector of radio and television: 
You have made record profits and we are going to have a bit of the action because you have made record profits from the use of this country's air waves, which of course are a public resource '. 
One thing which does disappoint the Opposition is that in deciding to increase licence fees for commercial radio and television stations the Government, in terms of its own conduct in relation to broadcasting since it came to power, has really dipped its fingers in rather dirty money. It has done nothing in terms of broadcasting policy since it came to power which in any way reflects a concern for the public interest or the public philosophy in relation to the content and nature of broadcasting programming in Australia. This is really only the second positive thing the Government has done in respect of broadcasting since it came to power. The first thing that was done in terms of legislation was in November and December 1976, when it introduced the infamous amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act with two specific purposes in mind. The first purpose was to emasculate the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as it then was- the public sector of television for which any government is deemed to be responsible, one would have thought- by the removal of a number of members of that Commission, particularly the staff-elected member of the Commission. The piece of legislation failed because it did not meet with the approval of many members of the Government back bench, some of whom are here tonight. The second purpose of the legislation introduced in December 1976 was to abolish the then existing Australian Broadcasting Control Board and, more particularly, to get rid of two of the members of that Board. That piece of legislation was successful and the Broadcasting Control Board was replaced by the present Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
An extraordinary feature of this Government is that since it came to power there has been a tremendous amount of talk about broadcasting policy but nothing has happened in real terms. I might illustrate the confusion of the Government's policy by reference to a couple of points, and I ask the Senate to bear in mind that those two positive acts are the only acts which have in any sense been constructive and positive in terms of broadcasting legislation. When one looks at the other actions of the Government in relation to broadcasting, it is perhaps salutary to remind the Senate of some of those under particular headings. The Senate will remember, first of all, the method adopted by the Government when the Minister in the House of Representatives,  Mr Eric  Robinson, was asked early in 1976 what the 
Government's attitude was on a number of matters of broadcasting policy. 
In the course of a debate in the House of Representatives he announced off the top of his head that he would set up an inquiry into broadcasting in Australia. That inquiry, which was given some six or eight weeks in which to report, was not public. It was given a very limited time in which to report, and when one compares it with the three years given to Lord Annan's committee in Britain to report on a much less complex broadcasting structure than we have here, it clearly did a very worthy job in the circumstances. It was not a public inquiry, limited numbers of the reports were made available to the public, and subsequently when the Government introduced legislation it was not consistent with the recommendations of the inquiry. That was the first report which the Government commissioned and from which little has flowed in any constructive sense. 
In December 1976 the Government appointed the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which was grandiosely described by certain sections of the Press as the new 'supremo' body of Australian broadcasting. Just as with the Australian Broadcasting Commission, when the Government indulged in a practice which I think most parliaments would deplore, namely, the appointment to the chairmanship of the Commission of  Sir Henry  Bland, a personal adviser to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  so it indulged itself with the appointment of  Mr Bruce  Gyngell to the chairmanship of the Broadcasting Tribunal. At the time of his appointment  Mr Gyngell  was a personal adviser to  Mr Kerry  Packer, the proprietor of the Channel 9 network and of the Australian cricket team. That was done again, one would have thought, with total disregard for the niceties of public appointments. 
The question of  Mr Gyngell's  appointment has again come before the public eye in the last couple of weeks with the publication of the Tribunal's report on self-regulation in broadcasting. The report was tabled on 25 August, and at the time of tabling the Minister brought down a statement in which he invited public discussion and public comment on the report. He said that the issues in the report were too important to be dealt with without a full public debate. Those are familiar words in the mouths of Ministers of this Government- the need for a full and adequate public debate. From 25 August the Minister gave until 30 September for the public to contribute to a debate in this country on the future of broadcasting. Some 35 days was allocated by the Minister for the public to take part in discussion of a report of which limited numbers where printed and made available to the public and to which there is very little accessibility in terms of public debate. So for the second time the Government has indulged in the device of commissioning reports to get itself off the hook of the inadequacies of its policies in this area and, when the reports have been published, setting up the facade of calling for public debate and not allowing time for that public debate to take place. 
One interesting aspect of the report of the inquiry conducted by the Broadcasting Tribunal into self-regulation is the role of the  Chairman  of the Tribunal. There are three members of the Broadcasting Tribunal and they reached agreement on most issues. On the one vitally important issue of Australian content in radio and television, which is of concern to the television and radio production industry in this country as well as to numerous creative people, actors, writers, producers and others engaged in television production, in the one area of the question of Australian content the  Chairman  dissented from the majority of the Tribunal on what should be done. The majority suggested that by a slow process of implementation, 50 per cent should be the level of Australian content to be attained by 1979. The  Chairman  dissented from that view. He is quite entitled to dissent, although in view of his past associations one is entitled to wonder why. 
As I say, the  Chairman  was entitled to dissent but in my view, as a statutory office holder in this country, he was not entitled to go on commercial television as he did last week and the week before, advocate his own view and denigrate the views of his colleagues on that statutory tribunal. Not only did he advocate his own view to the detriment of his colleagues on that tribunal, but also he invited members ofthe public to participate in the public debate and write to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications supporting his view against the view held by his colleagues. I would have thought that in governmental terms, that is an extraordinary abberation in the light of the standards which one could expect from public office holders. But as I said earlier, it is typical of the sort of totally laissez faire dilettante attitude which the present Government has adopted and allowed in relation to the development of broadcasting policy. In substitution for action, it has consistently resorted to public inquiries and reports as a result of which precisely nothing happens. 
There is a further example of the Minister's inactivity in relation to broadcasting based again on a report. The Government sought since it came to power to grapple with the difficult problem of ethnic broadcasting in Australia. I say that it is a difficult problem. It is not really a difficult problem. It is conceptually a difficult problem for many supporters of this Government. They have difficulty in grasping the fact that migrant communities in this country are entitled to broadcasting services in their own languages. They are entitled, just as Australians ought to be entitled in terms of broadcasting, to put forward their own views, their own opinions and their own cultural values in relation to matters which concern them as members of ethnic communities. The Government has always had difficulty with that concept. After failing to persuade the Australian Broadcasting Commission, because inadequate funds were available, to take over ethnic broadcasting the Government again grappled with this question by setting up yet another Government committee, the deliberations of which, of course, have been secret and the report of which purports to advise the Government on ethnic broadcasting. As I understand it, the Government is to set up a special broadcasting service arising from that report. One of its duties will be to deal with ethnic broadcasting. 
When I asked a question of  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in the Senate, on what the nature of the report to the Government was and whether he would table it in the Parliament, he said no, he would not do that because it was a confidential report to the Government. It is a funny confidential report. Sections of it have been published in the  National Times.  It is freely available amongst ethnic communities in Melbourne. But apparently the Australian Parliament is not entitled to have it tabled. The members of the Australian Parliament are not entitled to look at the contents of that report. Upon the basis of that report the Government apparently is adopting a new policy in relation to ethnic broadcasting. It is an extraordinary proposition that members of the parliament are not allowed to look at a document like that but other people are entitled to see it. 
Again, there have been a number of totally inconsistent answers from this Government to questions about the functions of the proposed special broadcasting service. During the meeting of a Senate Estimates committee the other day we were told that the functions of the proposed ethnic broadcasting service would be ethnic broadcasting, educational broadcasting and Aboriginal broadcasting. In an answer to a question which the Minister gave me today we were told that the functions of the special broadcasting service would be as proscribed. Apparently, they could not be revealed at that stage. Again, that is quite an inconsistent answer and is illustrative of the Government's confusion on this matter. 
There are a number of areas which are of important public concern in relation to broadcasting policy. That public concern is expressed by numerous broadcasting consumer groups throughout this country, groups made up of people who are concerned with such questions as the quality of children's programs on radio and television, ethnic radio, the fact that Australians should be given as wide as possible a choice in the programs that they have available to them on radio and television and the fact that there is no Australian image, if I can use that term, on Australian television but rather an almost total American image of some seven years ago. All these questions are of concern to many people. It is time that the Government clarified some of the very important issues, some of which I have referred to. 
What has the Government done in this area since it came into power? It has done nothing, apart from undertaking first of all a cursory and superficial restructuring of the mechanism of public accountability in the broadcasting system. That has really resulted, if one reads the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal of a week ago, in the wheel coming full circle. What the Tribunal in fact is recommending should occur in Australian broadcasting is really the reconstitution of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which was abolished by this Government in 1976. That is what the Tribunal is really recommending and that is the only area in which the Government is embarking upon any legislative initiative. The Government has been unable to state an attitude in relation to the important question of advertising on television. When I asked  Senator Carrick,  the responsible Minister in the Senate, a question in March of this year about the Government's attitude to advertising, he replied in these terms: 
I am very well aware of the people's attitude to this question and the Government's attitude in this regard. 
I then asked him what the Government's attitude was.  Senator Carrick  replied: 
That is a matter which should be stated by the Minister concerned. 
I suppose it can be said that he also serves who only stands and waits. But it is now September and there is no statement from the Government about what its attitude to this important question is. One hoped that there would have been some enlightenment from the Minister on that question. There is no statement of philosophical principle by the Government on the guidelines which should have been given to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. There is no Government response to public concern over program standards. There is no Government response to important questions of technology in the industry. There is no plan for FM radio. There is no plan for the public broadcasting sector. The Government has paid lip service to the extension of FM services. It has paid lip service to the development of a public broadcasting sector. It has done nothing about either of these things except in the case of the Melbourne State college where an interim licence has been granted, as I understand it, to that institution on a totally ad hoc basis and, as is widely said in Sydney, because of what is known as the Guilfoyle connection. That is a sophisticated Sydney which I as a Melbournian would hestitate to try to explain to the Senate. 
-Senator Douglas McClelland says that it is understood. There has been a complete ad hocery about the broadcasting policy and no reponse in the areas which I have mentioned. I think it is appropriate to mention these matters in the context of dealing with these licence fee Bills. As I said earlier, this legislation is really about the only response the Government has made to any of the important issues in broadcasting with which many people in this country are properly and rightly concerned. Although I commend the legislation to the Senate, I do so in the spirit of saying that any government which increases licence fees for commercial radio and television stations has a public responsibility to discharge in terms of protecting the integrity of the national broadcasting service and seeing that there is adequate accountability of commercial services to the interests of the public. None of these things have been done in the two years of this Government. In supporting the legislation, as I do, I commend to  Senator Carrick  the suggestion that he incite his colleague in the House of Representatives to get on with some of these things instead of concentrating so assiduously on his other part time portfolio as Minister Assisting the Treasurer. 
-It will reduce unemployment too,  Senator. 
-My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to a matter to which I adverted in the Senate last night. I refer to the Minister's statement of 25 August in tabling the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in which the Minister said that there should be ample opportunity for public discussion and debate regarding the report of the Tribunal. The Minister went on to say that he would then be able to make a recommendation to Cabinet after that ample public discussion and debate had taken place. I ask the Minister How many copies of the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal have been printed? Where are they available? Does the Minister regard the five weeks allowed for ample public debate as sufficient for the debate to which the Minister refers? If not, will the Minister make representations to ensure that the date upon which that debate is presumed to close may be extended? 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I indicate that we are happy to support this motion moved by  Senator Rae  but not entirely for the reasons he has stated. I think it is probably a little premature for him to find that the failure for such a long time to present a report that covers a period of only a few days is contempt of the Parliament. 
-I understood the honourable senator to say that, but I think a better understanding of the problems of the Australian National Gallery might lead to the view that it was a misunderstanding on behalf of the Gallery rather than in any sense an attempt to behave in a manner derogatory to the Parliament.  Senator Rae  has raised some quite important and valid points which I think substantiate the view that this matter should go to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for further examination. Perhaps when that Committee has made some inquiries and we have a report from it, we will consider the matter and make our judgment then. I hope that judgment will be constructive and not necessarily derogatory of the staff or the council of the Gallery. So, basically for the reasons which  Senator Rae  has indicated, we are happy that this matter be referred to that Committee. 
I seek leave to present a petition from 2,029 citizens relating to the Industries Assistance Commission draft report on recorded music. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It is not a question relating to a matter of speculation but a question of fact. The facts to which I refer are the figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showing that employment opportunities in the private sector of the economy are continuing on a downward trend with private employment decreasing by 1 1,400 in the month of July. Is this an example of the private sector taking up the slack, or when can we expect the election promises of the Government to improve private business confidence and slash unemployment to be realised? What does the Government propose to counteract this continuing deterioration of job opportunities in the private sector? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission enter into any contractual obligations in respect of 18 telemovies if so, what obligations. 
If any such contractual obligations were entered into, what was the total amount of expenditure committed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in respect of each contract. 
Which contracts were involved. 
Did the Minister for Post and Telecommunications sign a contract or contracts for the production of 18 telemovies, or other number of telemovies in June 1976; if another number, how many telemovies 
What, if any, independent inquiries did the Minister make before signing such contract or contracts. 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission sought to withdraw from any part of the contractual obligations; if so, what part or pans. 
Has the Minister obtained advice from the AttorneyGeneral about the legal effect of the contract or contracts referred to. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to repeated statements by Government Ministers during 1976 to the effect that State governments as well as the Federal Government would be expected to cut spending and reduce employment or, as it was put in the words of the 1976 Budget Speech, to 'turn back the recent trend towards bigger and bigger government'. In view of the most recent employment figures which show private sector employment decreasing by 11,400 in July and government employment rising by 3,000 in the same month, I ask: Has there in fact been any response to the Government's stated intention of reducing public sector employment? If so, where? Do the figures not suggest that the government sector rather than the private sector is being stimulated at this stage? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's disregard of increasing unemployment. 
The Opposition regards this matter as important for a number of reasons. It is important in terms of the tragic consequences for people who are currently unemployed and it is important in terms of the tragic long term consequences for this country of some of the rhetoric which goes on in the Senate and which has gone on in the course of the Budget debate about the need to have a sense of purpose and endeavour which is now lacking in this country. The importance and urgency of this matter arise first of all because of Government inactivity in the face of a continuing and increasing level of unemployment. Its importance relates, too, to the repeated attempts by Government spokesmen to blame other forces in society for the unemployment level which we now have and to write down the consequences of unemployment as they now affect society. 
That was no better illustrated than during question time in the Senate today when  Senator Messner-  I might say somewhat foolishlyasked  Senator Carrick  a question about unemployment amongst young people. If anything was quite apparent to anybody listening to question time today it was simply that the Minister who was asked the question had no idea about how to answer it, and in trying to avoid having to answer the question he retreated into a diatribe about past events and totally ignored the substance of the question until he was assisted by the passing to him of a note by another Minister. T hat illustrates most graphically and recentlywithin the last few minutes- the attitude of the Government to this subject, which  Senator Carrick  ultimately described in his answer as the endemic disease of unemployed youth that grips Australia. So there is no doubt about the importance of the matter, even in the mind of  Senator Carrick,  although he has never bothered to try to find out the answer to the sort of question that  Senator Messner  asked. 
The third aspect of the urgency of this matter is, of course, the harshness, insensitivity and lack of compassion that the Government has shown in dealing with those who are presently unemployed. I ask the Senate to look at the facts in the light of  Senator Carrick  's answer to a question a few moments ago. The fact is that, according to the figures of the Commonwealth Employment Service in August 1977 there were 333,978 people unemployed in Australia, which represents 5.4 per cent of the work force. That is double the unemployment rate of 1975; yet  Senator Carrick  went on about what happened in the time of the Whitlam Government. Over one-quarter of a million Australians are in receipt of unemployment benefit. Over one-quarter of a million people have to go each week to collect a dole cheque. Over one-quarter of a million people are frustrated and disillusioned by their inability to take part in the creative life of this country, in the work life of this country. Over one-quarter of a million people are blighted by the prospect of an uncertain future. 
Within the overall figure of 333,000 people unemployed there are certain groups of people amongst whom unemployment is particularly high. As at May 1977, 14.6 per cent of the recipients of unemployment benefit are migrants from non-British countries. They comprise a group of people in the community who are least able to cope with the difficulties, the frustrations and the bureaucratic effects of being in receipt of unemployment benefit. Persons under 25 years of age constitute nearly 60 per cent of the overall group of unemployed people but constitute only 27 per cent of the work force. Eighty per cent of those people who are teenagers and unemployed have not completed secondary schooling. They comprise a disadvantaged education group. Again they are a group of people in society who are least able to cope with the consequences of unemployment. 
It is significant that 20 per cent of those who are under 25 years of age and unemployed hold a university degree, a diploma or a trade qualification. Twenty per cent of them- one in every five- have completed tertiary qualifications and are still not able to obtain jobs. The unemployment which is represented by those figures reaches into every segment of Australian society, potentially into every home in Austraiian society, and occurs amongst people who have been encouraged to adopt a degree of aspiration which may never be fulfilled unless something is done about the present level of unemployment. One might add that 17,000 of those who left school in November 1976 are still out of work. One might add to that the chronic degree of discrimination against Aboriginals in employment and the fact that a very high percentage of unemployment occurs amongst Aboriginals. One might add the fact that one vacancy exists for every 17 unemployed persons in Australia. One might add to those bald unemployment figures the fact that a survey done by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in May 1977 showed that in Australia there were 72,500 people working part time who were anxious to obtain full time employment but could not do so, and that there were another 200,000 women in Australia who wanted to obtain employment but could not do so. Of course, they do not show up in the unemployment benefit statistics. That is another quarter of a million Australians looking for full time employment added to the more than a quarter of a million Australians already unemployed. It adds up to a very serious problem that affects all sections of Australian society. I am grateful to see that  Senator Messner  is perhaps the first senator on the Government side to show some interest in the question. 
What has been the Government's record in relation to this problem which it used in 1975 to defeat the Labor Government? What has been its response since then? First of all, let us look at the promises which were made by  Mr Fraser  in his policy speech in November 1975 and the sorts of things which he said. He said: 
We will provide jobs for all'. 
He said: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
In December 1975 he became a bit bolder. He did not make those general promises. He was more specific. He said: 'Unemployment will be slashed by 200,000 if a Liberal-Country Party government is elected'.  Mr Street,  his Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, said: 
We will have a five-point plan to cure unemployment in Australia. 
None of those things has happened. One of the consequences, one of the things which flowed from those glib promises of November and December 1975, was a pledge to encourage investment in the private sector, with the expected consequence of increasing employment. So we got the investment allowance promise which is costing $450m a year. Yet in the last national wage case, earlier this year, employer advocates were saying to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission: 'One of the problems about unemployment in Australia is that people are putting in a lot of new machinery and equipment, following from the investment allowance. That is one of the causes of unemployment'. That, of course, is one response which in 1975 the Government indicated it would make. Let us look at some of the other elements in the Government's economic strategy relating to this question of unemployment. The conclusion of all commentators about the 1976 Budget was summarised very well by the Melbourne  Age.  It said: The unemployed will have to wait another year. In spite of clear identification of the problem of areas of chronic unemployment in the construction industry, in the manufacturing industry and in rural towns already identified in 1976 quite clearly, the unemployed will have to wait another year'. 
Earlier this year we had the wage-price freeze, which Opposition members told the Government at the time would not work because it was a piece of economic ad hockery straight off the top of the head of the Premier of Victoria and straight into the left ear of the Prime Minister of Australia. What happened? Now we can see some of the consequences of the wage-price freeze which was introduced by the Government at the instigation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and in response to which honourable senators on the Government side said: 'Whoopee! We have an idea at last'. They rushed into this chamber to tell us what a good idea it was. Let us see what the Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers had to say about the wage-price freeze and its effect on unemployment. It said this in its September 1977 newsletter: 
We are concerned also at the number of smaller suppliers, who complained that retailers who put their prices up on or before the first day of the freeze had refused to honour previous commitments to accept price increases themselves. 
The Chamber goes on to deal with the question of suppliers. Then it sets out some graphs and points to a very sharp increase in unemployment in May 1977. It continues: 
This represents an increase in the unemployment rate from 1.33 per cent to 5.2 per cent of the estimated labour force. 
That is between 1974 and 1977. The Chamber goes on: 
Of particular interest is the sharp increase in unemployment that occurred in June and July, 1977, which was considerably greater than that experienced in the same period in the two previous years. The Chamber believes this abnormal increase may have resulted from the April 1 3-May 24 wagesprices freeze. Almost from the day of the announcement of the freeze the VCM Index of Factory Employment started to show a fall in employment levels. This was a particularly disturbing trend as manufacturing employment was showing signs of stabilising early in 1977. 
That is before the wages-prices freeze. This shows another initiative which the Government took. In the Budget of 1977 the conclusion from commentators was the same as the conclusion which was drawn as a result of the 1976 Budget. No end to unemployment; it will get worse' were the conclusions of the commentators. That, in macro terms, has been the Government's response to unemployment. It leads one to the inevitable conclusion- if I can put it in words more eloquent than I can use myself; the words of  President  Roosevelt- that this is a Government frozen in the ice of its own indifference regarding unemployment which is a problem which will not go away. Worse than that, the Government has resorted to a variety of quite devious practices to suggest that unemployment is not the problem which it really is. One Minister has described unemployment as a myth. Other Ministers have described the unemployed as dole bludgers. We have had a variety of suggested specific reasons for unemployment continuing- other than that of government policy. It is, of course, open to the Government to suggest reasons other than that of government policy, but it is not what the Government suggested were its intentions in 1975. It is not what the Government was suggesting in the Senate throughout the early part of 1 976. 
Let us look at some of the efforts, other than real efforts in terms of job creation progams and so on, which have been made to cure the problem of unemployment. Quite obvious attempts have been made to reduce employment figures artificially. The more positive achievements of the Government in that direction can be summarised in this way: What has the Government done in relation to reducing figures for unemployment? For example, in the course of its administration of the unemployment problem the Government has provided first of all that there will be no unemployment benefits for school leavers in vacations. There will be no unemployment benefits for people who voluntarily leave their jobs. So much for Liberal Party notions of individual freedom in a free society! People have no freedom to leave their jobs. There will be no unemployment benefits for people who are sacked for misconduct. So much for Liberal Party views of the freedom of contract which exists between employer and employee! Against the advice of committees established by this Government- the Norgard Committee and the Myers Committee- the Government has transferred to the Commonwealth Employment Service all responsibility for work testing. This was done against the advice of committees which the Government set up and which it hoped would produce a solution different from that which those committees produced. Professor Myers and  Mr Norgard  both said that the CES should be free from this responsibility to concentrate on the important question of placing people in jobs. 
Next the Government changed the work test so that social security benefits cannot be paid to anybody who has failed the work test. The result of this is a positive discrimination against people who are functionally illiterate, against itinerant Aboriginals and against people who are mentally retarded in some way or another. These are the people who can least cope with the bureaucracy and who can least cope with the social consequences of unemployment. I ask honourable senators to compare that position with what the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to say in November 1 975. He said: 
We will be generous to those who cannot get a job and want to work. We will not use the earnings of Australian families to finance Gold Coast holidays for those who do not want to work. 
He said that his Government would be generous. If this is an example of the Fraser Government's generosity to people in society who properly should be the recipients of Government generosity, to people who are least able to cope with the situation to which I have referred, it is not a very inspiring example to the people of Australia. However, the Prime Minister drew the distinction in that statement between people who wanted to work and people who wanted to be on the Gold Coast. Of course, this reminds me coincidentally of another very important socially divisive effect of the current level of unemployment. In this country at the moment we have a Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who can buy a $100,000 penthouse on the Gold Coast while people in this country are being denied unemployment benefits because they may be mentally deficient, because they do not speak the language well or because they are not well-educated. But we have a Treasurer who buys a penthouse. We have a Prime Minister whose wife can indulge in $ 1 ,500 trips to the opera while people in Australia- a quarter of a million of them- are unemployed and while others are not even able to receive unemployment benefits for the reasons I have outlined. We have a Prime Minister who can order expensive motor cars for himself and a Government which can order specially protected motor cars for politicians while people in this society- as I have said, a quarter of a million of them- are on the dole. 
-We do all these things like refurbishing the Lodge, something closer to  Senator Walters'  heart and intellect, no doubt, than the problem about which I am talking. We can have all these things for Ministers and politicians in the Government. We can spend $2m for people in  Mr Fraser  's electorate who want better television reception but we cannot do anything for people who are migrants, who are women, who are unemployed, who are educationally handicapped and so on. That is a very socially divisive effect. 
-I will remember  Blue Poles  and the honourable senator may remember Nazi Germany. He will remember that in Nazi Germany steps were taken to divide society in exactly the same way as is being done here - 
-Yes, and the Soviet Union. 
Let me continue my remarks. One would hope,  Senator Lajovic,  that this Government might have learnt from many conclusions it might have liked to draw about the purchase of the  Blue Poles  painting. But it has not. It is not  Blue Poles  now; it is the things that I have mentioned such as Gold Coast apartments. These things are devisive in this nation and they amount to a form of moral bankruptcy in the Government, a government of yes men who are pulled by the nose by a totally arrogant and insensitive Prime Minister- a totally insensitive person in relation to these problems, a person about whom the  Financial Review  said yesterday: 
The second main feature of the Fraser Cabinet is a preoccupation with short term political considerations, minimal attention being paid to governing. The reason  Mr Fraser  wants an early election is that he feels he can get himself another threee  years by going now. He has absolutely nothing else in mind, no long term economic strategy, no major issue on which he is seeking a genuine mandate. 
The article goes on to say that he got into power by accident and manipulation. That is a very subjective sort of view put by the  Financial Review.  I would not necessarily go along with that. But the point I wanted to make is that the comment that the Government has no long term economic strategy and no major issue on which to seek a mandate is perfectly true. We have this Government of accountants, lawyers, graziers and business rejects who concentrate on glib talk about national unity.  Senator Scott,  who is to speak in this debate later today, spent a lot of time last night telling us about national unity and national purpose. The very foundations of any possible national unity or national purpose are being undermined by the economic policies of the Government, its failure to manage the economy and the consequences of unemployment which result from sheer ad hockery in government and no plans for the future. 
It has made no plans for the future. These are the sorts of problems with which the Government ought to be concerned but which are endemic and symptomatic of this Governmenta total absence of any long term planning; ad hoc remedies; measures to cope with the unemployment statistics by a bit of jiggery-pokery here and there. This is the sort of thing we have seen but we have not seen any truly compassionate consideration of the real problem. The social and political consequences of this situation are, I believe, enormous for this country. We have honourable senators in this chamber who cross the floor about the price of apples and pears but no government senator will cross the floor about the unemployed in Australia. No government senator will cross the floor because they are not concerned about the 330,000 people unemployed in this country. They are concerned about the price of apples and pears or, in the case of  Senator Wood,  the price of bananas but they are not concerned about these more fundamental issues. It is for that reason that we keep moving motions pointing to the urgency and importance of this situation and, as I said earlier, its social and political consequences. They are very important. We live in a society in which people are anxious and concerned about all sorts of problems. They are concerned about the problems of families and family relationships; the problems of living in big cities; the problems of crime and, more particularly, the problems of drugs. 
I have referred to youth unemployment. If any honourable senator on the government side likes to take the trouble to check with social workers who have been concerned with drug problems, they will find that there is a distinct correlation between unemployment and drug addiction. I make no particular moral judgment about that, but I do make the judgment that the social consequences both now and in the long term of this sort of problem are quite enormous for this country. They follow, of course, from a sense of disillusionment, a lack of security in the future and a feeling of inferiority in a situation of being unable to obtain employment. These problems of personal insecurity are very great, and traditionally have been very great in association with unemployment. They are problems which cause stress to families. They are problems which cause anxiety to parents who have children leaving school, to the parents of some 200,000 children who will leave school in November and December this year- many of them, perhaps, with not great academic records. But even if they had great academic records they could well be destined to be included in the 20 per cent of people with tertiary education who cannot get employment. 
These things cause chronic anxiety. The lack of job opportunities causes concern to parents of children leaving school, and they cause a concern and disillusionment amongst young people themselves. There is a sense of frustration, a sense of inferiority and a sense of incapacity to cope with the promised country- the rugged society we were promised in November 1975. We see not only that but also particular problems of those such as migrants, under educated, unachievers in one way or another, and who have particular social problems which relate to this. There are also the very severe problems of anxiety for people who are now in jobs because they are entitled to ask: 'What is my future in my employment, having regard to the way in which unemployment is going and having regard to the sorts of predictions which are being made about unemployment by people outside the Government, by big companies in this country?' These predictions are not very palatable, I suppose, to the Government and the Government does not refer to them very often but projections are that half a million people will be unemployed next year. 
What are the people to make of those sorts of comments? What sense of purpose, what desire to work hard for a job must be engendered by these sorts of projections and the current situation? What is the point of somebody working hard in employment at the moment, as some cynics have put it, in order to work yourself out of a job? If that is true, there can be no sense of purpose in the terms used by  Senator Scott  in the Budget debate last night. The problem in unemployment is a difficult and intractable problem. But the real problem for the Government and the reason the Opposition has moved this urgency motion is simply this: What confidence can people have in the promises of this Government in relation to unemployment in view of its record of broken promises on the issue? What confidence can they have after two years of this Government, having regard to its record? What confidence can there be in the future of this country amongst people unemployed or people who fear unemployment? What confidence can they have in building the sort of society which I believe honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would like to see in terms of the security of every Australian? What confidence can there be in a government which is the direct lineal descendant of the governments of the 1960s when the structural unemployment which now exists in this country had all its seeds sown and when there was a complete absence of any manpower policy or manpower training schemes in Australia? They were just unheard of in Australia in the days of the lucky country. The consequences of the absence of such policies is demonstrated in the level of unemployment we are seeing now. 
When one adds the failures of the past and the inability to plan or look to the future to the sorts of comments which the  Australian Financial Review  made yesterday about a government which has no plans for the future, no long term economic strategy and no major issue on which it is seeking a mandate, then one can see the very clear connection in terms of short term ad hoc solutions and no long term planning. It is only when these long term problems are being tackled that people in Australia can have confidence in this Government and in the future. It is only when those long term problems show some sign of being appreciated by the Government and perhaps tackled, although that may be too much to expect, we will stop moving urgency motions on this question in the Senate. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
When did the Australian Broadcasting Commission televise a  Monday Conference  program concerning uranium mining. 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission recently advertise that the program would be reshown on Australian Broadcasting Commission television. 
Is it a fact that the program will not be reshown on Australian Broadcasting Commission television. 
Has the video-tape of the program been destroyed; if so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) What television transmitter and translator sites does the national television service share with stations operated by Country Television Services, Orange, and Television New England Ltd, Tamworth. 
Who originally established these shared facilities and at what cost. 
Of the sites originally established by either of the two commercial operators, how many were later acquired by the Postmaster-General's Department (and now operated by Telecom Australia). 
How much were the commercial operators paid for each of the facilities acquired by the Postmaster-General's Department. 
How much has the Postmaster-General's Department and Telecom Australia paid out since to upgrade and maintain the facilities including access roads and mains power feeds. 
How much were the commercial operators charged for each shared site in 1976. 
What does it cost Telecom Australia to maintain (a) main transmitter sites and ( b ) translator sites. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to an interview on the  AM  program this morning with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  when he was asked a number of questions relating to the power industry dispute in Victoria. In the course of that interview the Minister was asked: 
How will Federal Government intervention in the case before the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission assist with the settlement of this dispute? 
The Minister replied: 
It will make clear to the community the Government's attitude in this matter. 
I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that there is a distinction between political attitudinising and effective government action. I ask the Minister: What is the answer to the question which was addressed to  Mr Street,  namely, how will the Government's intervention assist in the settlement of this dispute? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister received any requests to provide public broadcasting licences; if so, what requests have been received. 
Does the Minister intend to call for applications for public broadcasting licences; if so, when. 
What procedures must be followed by applicants for public broadcasting licences. 
When will the Broadcasting Tribunal conduct hearings on applications for public broadcasting licences. 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question which relates to a program called  Starsky and Hutch.  The program  Starsky and Hutch  which is scheduled as an adults only program is now being shown in Melbourne on Channel 9 in children's television time. In view of previous questions which I have asked him about the administration of broadcasting program standards, if the Government is not able or prepared to do anything about the position will the Minister ask his colleague in the other place whether he is prepared to do something about it with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal as it is a matter of great concern to many parents? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the headline in today's  Australian Financial Review  which states: 'Power Settlement Looms', and similar headlines which have appeared today in all the daily newspapers. I ask the Minister. Is the looming power settlement the result of any rhetoric, threat, bluster, initiative or intervention by the Federal Government or is it in fact the result of the intervention by conciliation of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, as was suggested by the Opposition ten days ago? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill although I think a number of members of the Opposition have some criticisms of particular contents of it. The Bill before the Senate, with its rather pompous and not entirely appropriate title 'Office of National Assessments Bill 1977' seeks to establish an Office of National Assessments under a Director-General. It is important to explain what the expression 'national assessments' means in this context because the essence of that expression in the title of the Bill is the assessment of intelligence information collected by Australian intelligence agencies concerned with international intelligence. As I have said, the title Office of National Assessments is somewhat verbose and pompous compared, for example, with the title of the equivalent body in the United States which, I think is the National Security Agency, which incidentally employs some 25,000 people. One hopes that the Public Service growth rate in this area will not be as large as it apparently has been in the United States, having regard to staff ceilings. This title is somewhat more verbose than the title suggested by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Hope which was at least more specific. He referred to the Office of Australian Intelligence Assessments, which of course is what the Bui is all about and what the office is all about but which is not revealed by the proposed title. 
This legislation had its genesis in the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security presided over by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Hope. I should like to refer briefly to an abridged version of the third report, the findings of which were tabled in Parliament in April of this year. The Royal Commission was established by the Labor Government with quite wide terms of reference, having regard to some concern in the community at large regarding the apparent proliferation of Australian intelligence organisations, some confusion about their role and their function, and a very great degree of confusion and lack of confidence about their capability and their assessments. In the somewhat filleted report which the Parliament has had available to it since April of this year there is a quite thorough historical analysis by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Hope of what the expression 'intelligence' means, what it has meant in various contexts and the history of it, and quite a lot of esoteric references to expert opinion about the role of intelligence collection and the assessment of intelligence in the international scene generally. 
His Honour made a number of findings. I should like to refer to some paragraphs of his report because I think they are relevant to our consideration of this Bill. In paragraph 36 of the report, under the heading 'The need for intelligence ', His Honour had this to say: 
Australia cannot hope to know everything that is going on in every part of the world. But we can try to keep informed about what people are doing and planning in areas of specific significance to us. That requires us to be discriminating in choosing subjects for intelligence, collection and assessment. 
A little further on, in paragraph 40, he went on with the same point but in a sense to a greater degree. He said: 
None of this means, however, that Australia can dispense with its own collection and assessment activities. We need to be sure that the information coming to us is objective. For Australia to maintain a degree of self-reliance in its international posture, we must have our own information, our own intelligence. Moreover, it would be naive to imagine that overseas governments will always tell us everything they know about a particular matter. The position they take is quite natural and we should face up to it realistically. 1 mention that particular paragraph because the reference to Australia maintaining a degree of self-reliance in its international posture is almost something new in the international posturing of this country. For many years in the 1960s we in Australia suffered from governments which were not content to obtain any posture of self-reliance in international affairs but which, on the other hand, were quite disposed to adopt a totally supine posture to the United States in particular. 
-I say to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that we had the bizarre situation in 1972 when the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  attacked the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, for going to China.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's Prime Minister attacked  Mr Whitlam  for going to China in complete ignorance of the fact that  President  Nixon was going there too- something which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack might recall as a matter of embarrassment to the government of the day. That would seem to me to have been a matter which should have been of some concern to a government, even one which was not prepared to adopt a self-reliant posture in international affairs. There is probably more evidence of that proposition in relation to Australia's role and involvement in the Vietnam war. As I have been invited to do so I will refer to that matter. I refer particularly to the publication tabled in the Parliament on 13 May 1975 entitled 'Australia's Military Commitment to Vietnam'. At page 2 of the document, in discussing the way in which Australia became involved in Vietnam, the paper states: 
Australian military assistance to South Vietnam was not at any time in response to a request for defence aid from South Vietnam as a Protocol State to SEATO as a Treaty organisation. Although successive Australian Governments sought publicly to justify their actions as being 'in the context of or flowing from' Australia's membership of SEATO and the theory of the Protocol State or on the ground that military assistance under SEATO could be on a bilateral as well as a collective basis, the commitment was in fact made as a projection of the forward defence policy to which they were committed. 
When talking about Australian involvement in Vietnam, the document states at page 5: 
The first Australian initiative came, however, from the Ambassador in Washington who reported on S December that demonstrable Australian support for the Republic of Vietnam would make a very favourable impression on the United States Administration and suggested that Australia might supply counter-insurgency training personnel, small arms and ammunition. These suggestions were discussed by representatives of the Departments of External Affairs, Defence, Navy, Army and Air on 14 December. It was clear from this meeting that the motivation for providing assistance was predominantly political and that the Services were unwilling, for manpower reasons, to make more than a token commitment to the Republic of Vietnam. Accordingly the Ambassador was informed on 19 December that while Australia could supply some small arms and ammunition it could make no more than a token contribution . . . 
At page 6, the paper states: 
Between February and May 1962 Australian policy moved towards military assistance to South Vietnam. On 16 February the Ambassador in Washington cabled a recommendation that any American request should be considered favourably because the provision of even a handful of instructors would help make Australia's mark with the United States Administration, 
It is for reasons like that that I find it refreshing to read in  Mr Justice  Hope's report a reference to the need for Australia to maintain a degree of self-reliance in its international posture.  His  Honour went on to say: 
We must have our own information, our own intelligence. 
That, of course, is a view which has been put by sources as impeccably and implacably opposed to one another as the secretary of the MarxistLeninist Communist Party of Australia and  Mr B.  A. Santamaria, both of whom subscribe to that view, although for slightly different reasons. The recommendation which  Mr Justice  Hope made in relation to this matter is borne out by experience. One hopes that it is a new development and that future Australian intelligence gathering will be on the basis of the need for this country to maintain a self-reliant posture. In paragraph 42 of his report  Mr Justice  Hope again provided some degee of assurance to people concerned about the Australian intelligence community. He said: 
The Australian intelligence community is fragmented, poorly co-ordinated and organised. The agencies lack proper guidance, direction and control. They do not have good or close relations with the system of government they should serve. 
He went on to say that they lacked funds and that their activities were piecemeal. At paragraph 45 he returned to the point about other intelligence organisations of other countries. He said: 
Australia's intelligence interests do not, and cannot, coincide with those of any other country. Therefore, although we can and should benefit from exchange of information and views with friends and allies, we need our own intelligence collection and assessment capabilities. We also need constantly to re-assess the benefits to Australia from intelligence relationships with other countries against the costs. 
There are a number of matters arising from  His  Honour's observaion in that passage which are of concern. They really relate to the purpose of this Bill, which is to give a higher and, one would hope, more significant function to the assessment of intelligence information wherever it comes from. If there has been a failing in the past one would certainly assume that it related to assessment in the absence of any more detailed information than we now have about the method of gathering information and intelligence employed by various Austraiian governments. There is one other factor involved in this situation which, I suppose, is of interest to many people. It is the provision of an economic assessment board to assist the Office of National Assessments in addition to the board prescribed in clause 6 of the legislation which deals with what is called national assessment as distinct from economic assessment, which is dealt with in clause 7. It is in relation to both these areas that perhaps we should be a little more sceptical, a little more critical and a little more analytical in future about the sorts of assessments referred to in paragraph 45 of the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security when we are relying on information and views from what  Mr Justice  Hope terms friends and allies. Whatever the defence interests of Australia and the defence interests of our friends and allies may be there is no reasonable ground for suspecting for one moment that the economic interests of, for example, the United States of America and Australia will necessarily coincide at any time and will, in fact, be anything other than in direct conflict with each other on particular matters. 
That is why one finds concern at the moment in certain areas of this country about the activities of satellites which may or may not make economic assessments in relation to the rural produce of this country and things of that kind. The sorts of assessments which are discussed in paragraph 45 cannot be subject to the old boy network arrangements which existed in the past and which, even by their own standards, appear never to have been particularly satisfactory. There are one or two specific comments which I would like to make about the legislation. As far as the Opposition is concerned, one of the things which seems to emerge about the Bill when one reads  Mr Justice  Hope's report is that compared with what  His  Honour recommends it is a pretty sloppy piece of legislation, either by intention, design or just by sheer misadventure at the hands of the draftsmen and the Ministers responsible. For example, on 5 May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced what was to be the Committee of Ministers dealing with the Office of National Assessments to whom this body would report. When referring to the Hope Royal Commission at page 1630 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 5 May the Prime Minister said: 
The Commission also finds, however, that these services have not occupied an appropriate place within the machinery of government and that their activities have not been well enough co-ordinated. Accordingly, the Government has decided that there should be a special committee of Ministers comprising the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Treasurer, the Leader of the House, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the AttorneyGeneral to set overall policy and oversee the work of the intelligence community. 
One can understand the composition of that committee of Ministers if it includes, for example, the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  particularly having regard to the legislation now before the Senate. One has some difficulty in understanding why the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  a position which I would have thought was peculiar to the Parliament and not a position intimately associated with the workings of a ministry, should be included in the committee of Ministers. One wonders whether that is a peculiar aberration of the current coalition Government which requires additional National Country Party representation on committees of Ministers dealing with security matters. Be that as it may, the other three Ministers mentioned are the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  who traditionally have been associated with the assessment of intelligence information, and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  who is, of course, the Minister responsible for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He is accordingly included in that group. The legislation departs from the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope in one or two important particulars. It is quite clear that  His  Honour intended that the Office of National Assessments, as it is now being called in this legislation, would be one body which would make assessments without, as it were, the two Boards which have been referred to in clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill. In dealing with this,  His  Honour made this comment in paragraph 48 of his report: 
At present, the intelligence assessment process suffers from too great control by the Defence Department and Defence Committee on the one hand, and the Department of Foreign Affairs, on the other. To other departments it is seen in this light. That is bound to affect, and is believed to affect,  objectivity in the assessment process, and has tended to result in assessments which run the risk of compromise. 
What  His  Honour is there saying in more polite terms is that intelligence assessment in the past has been too much in the hands of the foreign affairs- defence establishments in this country, as it has been in most countries of a similar kind, and that as a result of that assessment being in the hands of those two departments, both of which have vested interest of one kind or another in a particular view or interpretation of international events, the intelligence assessment process in this country has suffered. As I mentioned earlier,  His  Honour went to some pains to point to the need for economic assessments being made. In paragraph SS of his report he dealt with that specific question. He said: 
Another effect of the present sharing of control by the Departments of Defence and Foreign Affairs is that other departments and agencies who, in other circumstances, might better see the need to use intelligence, do not do so. The lack of use made of the economic intelligence available in Australia, for example, is cause for some concern. Australia does not make full enough use of the materials available, perhaps because of lack of knowledge, or from prejudice; perhaps through some departments' unwillingness to share information they have with JIO as at present constituted. 
As I have said, that has clearly and manifestly been a result of notoriously blinkered assessments of intelligence information in the past. It is something which the Hope Commission sought to avoid in making its recommendations to the Government which have led to this legislation. What we now find in the actual legislation is, instead of one Office of National Assessments which would be responsible for assessing intelligence in relation to defence matters, foreign affairs matters and economic matters, a Director-General who is provided with two Boards with which he is to consult. The first Board is dealt with in clause 6 of the Bill. That is the National Assessments Board. The representatives on it are from the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Defence, a member of the defence force and a member of the Australian Public Service with expertise in economics. 
The other Board is called the Economic Assessments Board. Its membership is to include an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs and so on. The Director-General is enjoined by clause 8 to consult with both Boards and if he runs into difficulties in those consultations, a method is provided whereby he will attempt to resolve the difficulties. Instead of carrying out the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Hope, as it is obviously spelt out, we have a Director-General placed in the bizarre position of hovering like a well trained waiter between tables one of which is occupied by experts in the assessment of intelligence from the departments of Foreign Affairs and Defence and the other occupied by the experts on the Economic Assessments Board. There is no apparent correlation between the two as is clearly implicit as being necessary in the recommendations of the Royal Commission. 
There are a number of matters in this legislation which seem to us to be deficient. My colleague,  Senator Grimes,  will be dealing with some of them. Of course, reference is made throughout the legislation to appropriate officers and appropriate Ministers being provided with information with no guidance as to the appropriate means by which this is to be done. One assumes this is to be either in the discretion of the Director-General or the Prime Minister. A number of those minor items of drafting which appear to us to be unsatisfactory are even more unsatisfactory in legislation of this kind which is appropriately a matter of concern to the Australian people, a matter which should be clear and specific in its intentions and not subject to the sort of ambiguities and vagaries which this Bill is. I again reiterate that I think it is regrettable that the title of the Bill should be so spooky as that of Office of National Assessments. I do not really see why we had to embark upon a title like that when the Americans and  Mr Justice  Hope found much simpler language or much more relevant language in which to describe the purpose of this Bill. 
With those comments, I commend the Bill to the Senate with some hesitation because we think it is not quite as good as it ought to be, but we appreciate the fact that it does reflect in large part the recommendations of the Royal Commission and to that extent is worthwhile. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 5 September 1 977: 
1 ) Has the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal appeared on any television programs since the publication of the Tribunal's Report on Self-Regulation for Broadcasters to discuss the Report; if so, which programs. 
In the course of any such appearance, did the  Chairman  advocate support for his own minority view in relation to the issue of Australian content, as distinct from the recommendation of the Tribunal; if so, is this consistent with the obligations and practice of the  Chairman  of a statutory authority. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to her interview on the  AM  program this morning regarding the payment of unemployment benefits to persons stood down as a result of industrial stoppages. In view of what she said on the  AM  program this morning, are we to understand that it is within the contemplation of the Government that wage earners should be made collectively responsible for any stand downs resulting from industrial stoppages in terms of non-payment of unemployment benefits? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 5 September 1977: 
1 ) How many copies of the Report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on Self-regulation for Broadcasters have been printed. 
2 ) What has been the distribution of the Report. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the industrial disputation in the Latrobe Valley involving skilled maintenance workers employed by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the Hydro-Electric Commission in Tasmania, the Electricity Trust of South Australia and the New South Wales Electricity Commission employ the same type of workers performing the same functions. No industrial stoppages have occurred in any of those authorities. Will the Minister table in the Senate information as to the salaries, including incremental payments, of employees of each of those three electricity authorities and the State Electricity Commission of Victoria? 
-My colleague  Senator Missen  tried to distract attention from the subject matter of this motion by talking about people on strike in the Latrobe Valley who are earning $140 a week. A company called Lensworth Finance Ltd earned $1.5m in 20 days in a land scandal in Victoria. These are the people whom  Senator Missen  comes here to protect. There are very real reasons why he comes here to protect them which I hope to go into at a later stage, if that is possible. When we  are talking about the terminology of this motion we should bear in mind from the beginning that the current Budget appropriates $101m towards housing in Victoria in the current year and that level of expenditure has existed for many years.  Senator Missen  has given us a long lecture about why the Senate ought not to be entitled to hear the sorts of things which every Victorian is able to read in his newspapers and the sorts of things which have been the subject of frequent debates in the Victorian Parliament. Strange levels of sensitivity operate within the Liberal Party. 
-Is that what you call it? Federal Liberal senators seemingly are less sensitive than their colleagues in the State Parliament in Victoria because they do not take sub judice points there. They do not seek to hide behind the fact that a land inquiry is being held by the Victorian Government. Why not? It is because they know in the Victorian Parliament that if they did that people would say: 'You have something to hide'. That is what people would say in Victoria if State Liberal parliamentarians got up day after day and took points of order as we have heard in the Senate today. People in Victoria, because they know what is going on and because they have read their newspapers, would say: 'You have something to hide'. Of course, that does not impinge upon the views which have been put here in the Senate by people like  Senator Missen.  If one looks at the subject of this urgency motion one could discuss it completely without mentioning any matter which is the subject of the land inquiry in Victoria because in the lexicon of land scandals in Victoria names such as Mount Ridley, Patterson Lakes and Mornington Peninsula occur- all of which are matters of public concern and public discussion in Victoria- but which, unhappily, are not the subject of the inquiry which is being conducted in Victoria. 
Let me go back to the subject of the specific wording of the motion. Of course,  Senator Missen,  it stems from a very real problem in Australian society- the sort of problem which you identify about the people in the Latrobe Valley on $ 140 a week and some of your friends whom you desire to protect here. It also stems from the fact that housing in this country, because of the geographical circumstances of six large urban complexes, has always been a difficult problem for all governments, State and Federal. It is of concern to governments in terms of funding and it is of concern to the Australian people in terms of what they get in the way of delivery of service by governments. It is of concern to thousands of people in Victoria who are on low incomes and have been waiting for housing commission homes. They have been opening their newspapers daily and seeing that land speculators have been getting profits of $3m or $4m out of certain deals. The homes are just not there and none of the land which has been the subject of the speculation has in fact been developed for home purposes at this stage. It is a matter of real political concern. It is a matter which any responsible parliament ought to be concerned about and involved in. It is passing strange indeed to have members of this Parliament say that these are not matters of public interest and they are not matters of proper concern. I find it quite extraordinary. 
-Well, it is quite implicit in your points of order,  Senator Missen.  It is clear to anyone. It is only in the last few years that this problem has arisen. I should like to illustrate the nature of the problem in political terms, which ought to concern this Parliament. It arose in the early 1970s with the identification by the Labor Government of the fact that urban land was a key and essential component in high housing prices and with the development of the lands commissions program. I should like to give a simple example. In South Australia the lands commission program got into full swing. Partly for this reason and partly because of competence in government in South Australia- competence by governments of both political persuasionsthe price of urban land in South Australia is cheaper than in any other State. South Australia has the lowest public rental housing costs in any State in Australia and the lowest cost of purchase of public housing. All I can say about that is that it shows that in that State the taxpayers' money, which is collected as a consequence of this Parliament's activities, is well spent and that the government is delivering services to the community. I contrast that situation with the unhappy situation which one sees in my State of Victoria where the fact of the matter is that services are not being developed for the community. They are not being delivered to potential home buyers, home owners in Victoria. There is a variety of reasons for this but the two clear reasons are a lack of competence in government and the fact that taxpayers' money has clearly not been well spent by, for example, the housing commission in Victoria. One can identify the problems in Victoria and they can be said to be simply these: There has not only been a chronic lack of planning in relation to development of urban services but also there have been distinct and sharp changes in direction in relation to planning proposals. For example, in 1972 the Minister,  Mr 
Hunt, announced a program of corridor development for Melbourne. In 1973, as a result of some magical insight which  Mr Hunt  had- we are not apparently able to discuss the details of it in the Senate- that proposal was changed very suddenly by a Cabinet decision. I refer the Senate to the September 1977 issue of the official journal of the Victorian Town and Country Planning Association. It states: 
Of all the documents that have come to light as a result of the recent probes into the Housing Commission's land dealings-perhaps none is more disturbing than that memo on the decision to buy large tracts of land- dated July 1 8 1973. 
These are the essential extracts from that memorandum on the Victorian Government. 
The Minister advised that he had called the meeting to confirm a direction given by Cabinet on Monday 16 July 1 973, concerning the establishment of the Commission - 
That is the Housing Commission- as a land developing organ as a State alternative to the Commonwealth proposal concerning the establishment of Land Commissions. 
It went on to announce a complete change in planning policy from corridor development for the city of Melbourne to satellite town development. It is a strange coincidence indeed that just at that time when the Minister made the changes in planning decisions a number of large land development companies moved into the field. 
The first point about that memorandum is that while the South Australian Government was getting on with the job, with results in terms of land and housing prices which every Australian can now see, the Victorian Government for ideological reasons- that is the only way it can be described- was setting up a rival body, the Victorian Housing Commission, to purchase large tracts of land. It is a result of that decision and the decisions to change planning policy which had been enunciated very clearly a year before in 1973 by the Minister- a decision to change planning policy that was not the subject of any public discussion, which ought to lie at the base of all planning- that the sorry situation which is the subject of debate today has come about. In the first place, there is the chronic change in planning proposals. There is a chronic lack of planning, poor delivery of services to the community, and enormous rip-offs, publicly discussed in Victoria, by agents and land speculators. More significantly, there is the deep involvement of prominent members of the Liberal Party in the land dealings in question. 
If one looks at the dramatis personae if I can call them that, in the Victorian land dealings in terms of involvement with the Liberal Party, the names which crop up are these: Peter Leake, one-time  chairman  of the Regional Planning Authority,  president  of the Mornington branch of the Liberal Party, campaign director to the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  and involved in each of the speculations concerned; the company known as Lewis Land Corporation, donor of $100,000 to the Liberal Party in the last election campaign; Peter Stirling, a proprietor of Pinmore Pty Ltd, a company with $2 capital, which has been given a $100m development job by the Victorian State Government.  Mr Peter  Stirling will be well known to Alan Missen. He is probably a friend of  Mr Hunt's  as well. 
-Well and favourably known- I am interested to hear that and I am glad it is on the record because this matter will no doubt be debated again in this place.  Mr Peter  Stirling is a former adviser to the Premier of the State of Victoria, a member of the Liberal Party State Executive, and for some time a prominent land speculator in that State. So there are reasons for concern about the involvement of prominent members of the Liberal Party, and I carefully do not mention the names of any Ministers,  Senator Missen,  having regard to the terror with which I am inflicted by the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
There is a new found sensitivity on the other side. These matters are of concern to the people of Victoria, and they are rightly of concern if one puts them in the context of the nature of some of the land dealings in question. Let me mention two to the Senate. In July 1973 the Victorian Housing Commission spent $2.4m, which originally came from taxpayers' funds collected by the Federal Government, on 770 acres of land which four years earlier had been bought for $280,000. The land was in a corridor designated by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works as not for development. It was land which the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission described as being flood prone in the centre of the catchment area of a creek. It was land which the State Housing Minister,  Mr Dickie,  described as extremely reasonable in price, land which the Housing Commission could not afford to pass up. Needless to say, four and a half years later no houses have been built on that land. 
One turns to the land at Sunbury. On 28 November 1973 a company called Lensworth 
Finance Ltd bought 460 acres of rural land for $1.8m. Twenty days later it sold the land for $3.4m, a profit of about $1.5m in 20 days. According to the evidence before an expert State Government committee in Victoria- people  Senator Missen  said have eminent competence to determine these matters- the land was not suitable for housing. It was bought by the Housing Commission for housing and the report of the Victorian Valuer-General, who advised the Housing Commission on this matter, said that the land had been valued with prior knowledge of residential rezoning. 
Those are matters which are surely of concern and, one would think, ought to be of concern to  Senator Missen,  who has lost interest in the debate but who was quite content to come here and talk about people in an industrial dispute who are earning $ 1 40 a week. If one looks at some of the other dealings the same sort of pattern emerges, the same type of involvement emerges. The sad fact is that in this place there is neither time nor apparently inclination on the part of the Government to allow these matters to be debated in great detail. When the present Prime Minister was elected I thought he talked about honesty in government as being an important factor. I hope that honourable senators on the government side will stick to that promise. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the $ 100,000 of public money which is to be spent on advertisements in the ethnic Press this week 'in order to counter misconceptions about the Government's policies relating to ethnic communities '. What factors have led to these misconceptions developing at this time and to the Government's response at this time to those alleged misconceptions? 
-I regret the statement that has been made by the Leader of the Senate but I do direct a question to him in his vicarious capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer the Minister to the proposed pilots strike which is to take place for 48 hours next week and which will, I understand, substantially disrupt air services and passenger traffic in Australia. I ask: Does the proposed pilots' strike relate to an industrial matter within the meaning of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? Does it relate to an industrial matter within the meaning of frequent statements made by the Government about what an industrial matter is, or is it, indeed, a political strike? If it is in fact a political strike, what action does the Government propose to take to deal with the strike and which piece of the Government's vital industrial legislation will be used to stop this strike? 
-The Senate is debating the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1977. I stress that it is Bill No. 3 because in spite all the industrial legislation introduced by this Government the industrial relations climate in this country has not, according to Government sources, improved. So this is Bill No. 3 1977. Although the Senate has just voted to decide that this is a most urgent piece of legislation, it is apparently not regarded by the Government as a most important piece of legislation. For example, one notes that no Ministers are set down to speak on this legislation and one recalls that on the last occasion industrial legislation was before the Senate the Minister in charge of the Bill spoke for one minute. Perhaps it is because the Government does not understand its own industrial relations legislation. Perhaps it is because it does not really regard the legislation as important in terms of its legislative effect. One does not know. One can only surmise. 
It is exactly two months ago today that the Senate, at a cost of thousands of dollars to Australian taxpayers, sat on a Friday in order that the Government could rush through legislation which was going to solve the industrial relations problems of the Commonwealth Public Service. That was the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill. The dispute which it was alleged caused the urgency in that situation two months ago was settled by negotiation. The legislation which was rushed through the Senate two months ago has never been proclaimed. It has never been proclaimed because it is of doubtful constitutional validity, but more importantly because the Government recognises that that rushed legislation is unworkable. Two months ago the people of Australia were treated to a great performance- a sort of tale told by an industrial idiot, full of sound and fury, but signifying nothing in relation to industrial disputes in the Commonwealth Public Service. Every few months now we are treated to the same sort of spectacle in this Senate. Every few monthsperhaps it coincides with the phases of the moon, I do not know- the living dead who sit on the Government side in the Senate stand in their places, stir their bones and rise up to haunt the trade union movement and the industrial arbitration system in this country but nothing follows from that exercise. 
This industrial relations legislation is a classic example of a government and a parliament debasing itself and bringing itself into disrepute. Listen, for example, to the authentic words of  Senator Wright  who spoke on the last occasion the Senate met to discuss urgent industrial relations legislation. On that day  Senator Wright  said: 
Those who are preaching that democracy is on the verge of collapse and allowing the dictatorships of the industrial world and the Arab world to take over will see in this behaviour of the Senate today a demonstration that Parliament is capable of acting promptly when effective action is required. 
-What he said at that time was quite correct and he now says 'Hear, Hear! '. The legislation of course has never been proclaimed. It was a political stunt two months ago as it is again a political stunt today introducing the industrial relations legislation before the Senate in the circumstances in which it has now been introduced. Nothing has happened since that event two months ago to indicate the supposed effectiveness of this son of legislative provision. That was rushed legislation. It was illconceived. It was divisive political stunting and it was a waste of public money. Little time was given to the Parliament to debate it. A parliament can spend hours and hours of its time debating in Estimates Committees the cost benefit analysis of pot plants in the Commonwealth Government buildings but it can spend only a few hours of its time debating important industrial relations legislation, so described by the Government. 
At the end of the autumn session of this Parliament a most complex piece of legislation, the trade practices legislation, was rushed through the Senate again without adequate discussion. That legislation, which outlaws secondary boycotts in the industrial field, has profound implications for industrial relation. That legislation has never become operative. Nobody nas used it but it was regarded as urgent and as of the utmost importance. It has not become operative because employers know that it would not work. But we were told in the Senate that it was very important. Now today we have the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) which is a complex piece of legislation and it is to be similarly treated by the Government, having been introduced in an atmosphere of high theatricality in order that government supporters may psyche themselves up and persuade themselves that they are really doing something about the industrial relations problems of this country and the profound divisions in the country. 
While all the industrial relations gab goes on here in Canberra in government circles, the real talk of course in relation to industrial relations problems is taking place in Melbourne today in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as it has taken place in relation to every other dispute which was said to be of such importance that it justified the Parliament sitting in this pseudo dramatic way. 
-This legislation is not yet effective, it will not have anything to do and it is not in any way relevant to the current dispute in the Latrobe Valley about which no doubt we will hear much from Government supporters. 
-You will have an opportunity,  Senator Missen,  no doubt to tell us how it is relevant because conceivably the only way that it can be relevant is in relation to deregistration and the honourable senator knows, if he reads the papers, that those proceedings have been adjourned by the Federal Court of Australia to 30 October so the legislaton has only marginal relevance to any matter which could be regarded as urgent. 
The Government has now introduced secret ballot legislation, numerous amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission Act, amendments to the Trade Practices Act and the Commonwealth Employees (Conditions of Employment) Bill. All that legislation is in pursuit of one arm of the Government's industrial relations policy. We perhaps have more legislation with minimal effect than any other country could imagine. I repeat: More legislation with minimal effect. 
The real reason for the introduction of this legislation at this stage is that the Government is hell-bent on making cheap political capital out of a tragic and disastrous situation which exists in the State of Victoria resulting from the Latrobe Valley dispute. If one wants a good illustration of that, one can see it very well illustrated in the views of the Deputy Prime Minister who has always been the loudmouth on industrial relations issues but singularly unsuccessful in doing anything about resolving them. On Wednesday of this week in talking to a gathering of farmers here in Canberra the Deputy Prime Minister is reported in a newspaper on the current situation in this way: 
He said: 'Sooner or later the Government has to face up to this issue and go to the Australian people and say: "We are prepared to govern with courage and a sense of responsibility , but you have got to back us ". ' 
The Government could not stand up to the unions knowing that it only had 'six months life in a parliament',  Mr Anthony  said. 
We've got to know that we're going to stand up there, be firm, and know that we have a period of two or three years in front of us to try and get this country under control'. 
That is what  Mr Anthony  had to say. It really is an extraordinary statement for a  Deputy  Prime Minister of a country like Australia to make. It is an extraordinary statement, because, first of all, it contains some quite unusual and interesting admissions. It suggests that the Government has not faced up to the industrial relations problem. We will have to face up to it', he is reported to have said; and that in future the Government will be prepared to govern with courage if it has an election, that is, if this issue can be used to have an election. Of course, the implications of that are quite clear to everybody. Speaking for the Government he said that the Government had to know that it was going to stand up and be firm. If he does not know that now, one wonders when he ever will. One wonders whether this is not a whole imbibing exercise of raw spirits to inflame the passions and stir the courage. He went on to say that the Government will have to have an election in order that it might be able to govern with courage and to stand up. Those are the words of a  Deputy  Prime Minister of a Government with the largest majority in this Parliament that this country has known. Yet it still cannot stand up and solve the problems. The reason for this is simple: It cannot solve the problems because it is adopting the wrong approach towards them. 
One might ask the question: What happens, in  Mr Anthony's  view, if an election is held and there is the unfortunate circumstance that the Government is returned but is returned with a greatly reduced majority? Where will  Mr Anthony's  courage to stand up be then? What will the new government with a greatly decreased majority conclude from the ballot box? Will it conclude that it is not to stand up at all- that it ought to embark on some other course? What would the new government do then? What an absurdly specious argument for a  Deputy  Prime Minister of a country to put. This, of course, has come from a  Deputy  Prime Minister of a Government which came to power in 1975 in quite extraordinary political circumstances: A strike in the Senate in 1975; a refusal to pass the Budget; a delaying of the Budget. These were extraordinary political circumstances according to the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and according to all commentators. This action was justified in 1975 with the statement that in relation to all sorts of matters, such as unemployment, industrial disputes and the like, which bedevilled Australia, the then Opposition could do better. According to the statements which were made by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in support of this legislation, this Government cannot do any better at all. 
Contrast  Mr Anthony's  attitude when talking to a group of farmers, whom he hopes he can persuade to believe that a large number of problems are the responsibility of trade unions and not of the Government, with the statement made yesterday by  Mr Georges  Polites, the Secretary of the National Employers Policy Committee, a man of vast political experience in the industrial relations area, a man who is intimately involved with that area and knows what it is all about. He was asked at the National Press Club: 
Could you explain to us as simply as you can how an election a year ahead of time is going to help curb industrial unrest? 

 Mr Polites replied: 
I didn't know there was going to be an election a year ahead of time. If you know that I am pleased to hear it. I don't think it's got anything to do with industrial unrest. 
-I am coming to the terms of the Bill. If we were given time I should be happy in the Committee stage to expose the honourable senator's knowledge of the clauses of the Bill. But unfortunately we will not have time for that. Any time outside this Parliament or in it that the honourable senator wishes to discuss industrial relations legislation with me he will be welcome. I made the point that  Mr Anthony  was talking to a collection of farmers whom he was trying to persuade that their problems were the responsibility of the trade union movement. This has been a diversive and divisive tactic of the National Country Party for many years. The tragedy of that is that really what he was saying was: 'These poor cockies are a bit simple. I'll tell them that their problems really are caused by the trade union movement and not by our policies- not the sorts of policies which we promised in 1975 would bring great benefit to the rural sector. I will justify our massive failure in that area by talking about industrial relations. We will get these fellows to blame the trade unions'. That is a totally divisive technique in society. It is part of the whole stand of this Government to try to divide society- to evade responsiblity for its own failures and to put them onto somebody else.  Mr Anthony  went on to say that it was not the fault of the Government; it was the fault of the industrial relations situation. 
This has been the Government's stance all along. The last big strike-the air traffic controllers' strike- was said to be the responsibility of irresponsible militants and the stick was to be brought out to settle the strike. The strike was settled in the end by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and no irresponsible militants were involved. The State Electricity Commission dispute in the Latrobe Valley was said to be the responsibility of a well known militant,  Mr John  Halfpenny, who last week was booed in the Latrobe Valley by strikers because he suggested that they should return to work.  Mr Halfpenny  might well ask himself why he should do this Government's dirty work and go down to the Latrobe Valley when no Ministers of the Government are game to do so. That would be a very good question. 
At the same time as  Mr Anthony  is going on like this the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is boasting about the low level of industrial disputation in Australia, as if that had something to do with his industrial relations policy. I venture the theory that it has nothing to do with his industrial relations policies, but it does have a lot to do with his manpower policies- with the record level of unemployment which we have in this counrty. To that extent the Minister can boast because this Government has been responsible for that. That has had a consequential effect on industrial relations. There is no doubt about that. But it has nothing to do with the blusters and industrial huff and puff which comes from Ministers day after day about issues about which they seem to know nothing. 
Let me turn to certain provisions of the Bill. At this stage  Senator Missen,  who invited me to speak about the Bill, has left the chamber. That displays his degree of interest in the details of the Bill. The comment we make about this legislation is this: It is unworkable: Just as the Commonwealth employees conditions of employment legislation is unworkable, so too will this legislation be unworkable. I repeat that it will be unworkable because I want honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber to remember in a few years' time what I said. The word I used is 'unworkable'. If they, slow thinkers that they are, benefit in a few years' time from that description the whole of this country will have benefited. Society will have benefited if they realise that the course upon which they now embark because they seek an election is quite unworkable. 
One of the important provisions of this Bill is the deregistration provisions, which would enable the Industrial Relations Bureau to have a quite simple means of deregistering unions. I do not know whether deregistration of trade unions is offered to the trade union movement in 1977 as a threat or a promise. That is something in industrial law which we will really have to face up to soon. This Government purports to support the conciliation and arbitration system in this country, but it is reaching a stage where the legalisms, the legislative strait-jackets imposed on industrial relations in Australia are so strict that they are totally counter productive. The threat of deregistration will shortly be no longer a threat to trade unions; it will be a promise. It will be nice for trade unions to be outside the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and not bothered with all these legalisms and legalitiesall these pieces of legislation which we keep on debating here in the Senate. 
Let me refer very briefly to what a  Dr Turner,  of the Department of Industrial Relations at the University of Sydney, had to say in a paper entitled 'The Australian Disease and its Doctor', which was published in the  Australian Bulletin of Labour  in September this year: Talking about the industrial scene, he said: 
The Australian system of industrial relations is highly complex institutionally, unusually concerned with legalistic concepts and precedents, and singularly dependent on a specialised professional expertise. Anyone who is not intimately familiar with its structure history and detailed operation must therefore be extremely hesitant in commenting on its present situation. 
That is the advice which I tender to Government senators. The fact of the matter is that the socalled deregistration provisions in this legislation are potentially disastrous, they will achieve nothing and they are certainly not a real threat to most trade unions these days. In clause 20 of the Bill, to deal with another example, hindering of interstate trade is to become a ground for deregistration of a trade union. I invite honourable senators to compare that expression, 'hindering of interstate trade', as a ground for deregistration with the purposes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which are the encouragement of representative organisations of employees and the settlement of industrial disputes by conciliation and arbitration. Under this legislation industrial disputes will be settled not by conciliation and arbitration but by a method of doubtful constitutional validity, that is to say, by deregistration. They will not be settled by conciliation and arbitration. 
-It is whole or partial deregistration. There is no magic in the word partial'. I do not know why the honourable senator is parroting that word here. There is no magic about it at all. The next detailed point in the Bill to which I want to refer is the powers of investigation of the Industrial Relations Burea. It is empowered under this legislation to enter premises, something which the police traditionally have had difficulty in doing in the way in which this legislation vests that power in the Industrial Relations Burea. It has power effectively to amend rules of organisations. It has power to hear complaints from anybody who wishes to make them. All these things are contrary to the understanding of the nature of a voluntary association as trade unions, whether registered or not, basically are. Providing access to the courts and access to bureaucratic bodies basically is designed to encourage rather than decrease litigation. As I have said, all these things are designed to put industrial relations in a strait jacket. They are designed to compound the difficulties and make the issues more complex. 
Another example in the legislation is clause 19 which deals with trade union demarcation disputes. This is an important matter because demarcation disputes between trade unions have for years constituted about 13 per cent or 14 per cent of all industrial disputes in this country. Between 1972 and 1975, in order to lessen the number of demarcation disputes between unions, the Labor Government on three occasions introduced legislation into this Senate to make it easier for unions to amalgamate. This situation should not really surprise any outside observer when it is considered that we have 300-odd trade unions in Australia compared with 16 in Germany and 20-odd in Sweden, countries which seem a little more successful than Australia. That legislation to enable the number of trade unions in this country to be limited was consistently opposed by the then Opposition. This legislation of course does nothing about it either. All it does is to give the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the power to say: 'You do not belong to that union. You join this one'. The industrial ramifications of this are absolutely enormous. 
Then, there are provisions regarding conscientious objectors. Employers are effectively told by this legislation that if they have somebody working for them who is a conscientious objector to trade unionism, they cannot sack him. It is a lovely situation for the contract of employment in Malcolm Fraser's free society, in Malcolm Fraser 's rugged society of Australia, that an employer is jammed virtually from sacking a man who is a conscientious objector. What sorts of contracts of employment will we have in this country from now on if that sort of provision is to apply? These criticisms add up to the fact that this is not the way to solve industrial problems in this country, and the more intelligent and responsible members of this Government know it. It is a tragedy for Australia that industrial relations policy is in the hands of a few men who like to talk tough and do nothing. They produce nothing and every recent dispute has shown that they produce nothing by way of settlement or resolution. We have a Prime Minister, a sort of affluent bikie who gets high and goes on a trip every time he takes a sniff of power. He is one of the men who is concerned with industrial relations policy in this country. Let me illustrate the tragedy of Australia compared with some other countries in the Western world. Look at the countries with a high level of industrial disputes and unrest. They are Australia, the United States, New Zealand, India, Italy and the United Kingdom. Look at those with a low level of industrial disputes. They include Switzerland - 
-I am coming to that. Do not get excited,  Senator Sheil.  They include Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Germany and the Netherlands. According to International Labour Organisation records the countries with no industrial disputes at all are Uganda, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Chile, Albania and, of course, South Africa. According to ILO records they have no industrial disputes at all.  Senator Sheil  and all honourable senators must decide which of those groups of societies we want to live in. Do we want to live in the countries which have a high level of industrial disputes or none at all, or do we seek to live in that democratic group of societies, including Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, Norway, Germany and the Netherlands, which have a low incidence of industrial disputes and a high incidence of industrial performance? What are we seeking? These are the things which I invite  Senator Sheil  and others to think about. Do we want the best results in this country? Do we want the best achievements? Do we want to get on with the job, or do we want this country to remain as a sort of industrial banana republic with a low level of achievement? We should look at those examples and decide which group of countries we want to belong to. 
In none of that group with a low level of industrial disputation and a high level of industrial performance would one find the sort of stunting that goes on in this country, the sort of big stick attitude to industrial relations. Industrial relations problems in those countries are solved by conciliation and not by the sort of approach that is being adopted by this Government. The Government knows this because it sent an expert to Sweden who came back with a report on the relevance of the Swedish.experience to the Australian situation. He concluded, if I may summarise his conclusions, that in times of economic stress, greater degrees of consultation, involvement, flexibility and innovatory behaviour are particularly needed. The alternative of greater control, authoritarianism and rigidity is likely to lead to increasing divisiveness and distrust. It is a conclusion which I hope we would start to think about in this chamber. Of course, this Government thinks that in some way it can legislate for industrial harmony and to make people work. Whilst other countries of the sophisticated group which I mentioned talk about right-to-work legislation, this Government talks about gottowork legislation. There is a very distinct and important difference. We have a scene set by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations who was once a Melbourne Grammar prefect and the Prime Minister who was once a Melbourne Grammar defect. They are the two nien who wield the stick in relation to industrial relations policy in Australia and that is the way the problems arise. I refer honourable senators to the  Australian Financial Review  editorial of a few days ago which states that this government has no program and no real policies; just a desire for power. In a country which desperately needs manpower policies, which desperately needs employment policies, which desperately needs industrial relations policies, and which more desperately needs leadership, these things are not being supplied by the present Government. The legislation before the Senate is an unworkable course upon which the Government embarks. It is a piece of political stunting. It is designed to get the Government over the next few years by way of an electoral hurdle, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister says, but it has nothing to do with important issues relating to the future of this country. It has nothing to do with the sorts of things we ought to be thinking about in Australia and it has nothing to do with the sorts of policies which will put Australia into that group of progressive, enlightened and highly successful countries to which every Australian should properly aspire to belong, if we are to see this country no longer a sort of industrial banana republic but a country which has a future of which all Australians can be proud. The Opposition opposes this Bill because the Government again is embarking on the completely wrong course. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
What particular considerations led to the choice of the PGA Championship as an appropriate beneficiary of Telecom's 'Limited business promotion', mentioned in the Minister's answer to  Senator Button's  question without notice of 6 September 1977  (Hansard,  14 September 1977, pp 827-8). 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As the Minister will be consulting his colleague on the removal of Terry Lane from his weekly morning program on radio station 3LO, will he also ask the Minister to ascertain from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, promptly if possible, what survey results there are relating to the listening audience of the Terry Lane's program? Will he inform the Senate of such information in due course? 
-The Senate is debating the serious economic uncertainty caused by the election manoeuvring ofthe Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That, as I understand it, is supposed to be the subject ofthe debate although one would not have gained that impression from listening to the last  speaker, Senator Tehan. 
-For  Senator Missen  's benefit, I am sure although nobody having heard his colleague speak a few minutes ago would be. The  Australian Financial Review  of 4 October this year had this to say in an editorial regarding the present Government: 
The second main feature of the Fraser Cabinet is a preoccupation with short term political considerations, minimal attention being paid to governing. The reason  Mr Fraser  wants an early election is that he feels he can get himself another three years by going now. He has absolutely nothing else in mind, no long term economic strategy, no major issue on which he is seeking a genuine mandate. 
It is in the light of that comment that the subject of this debate- the speculation about an early election and the effects of that speculation on the Australian economy- is raised by the Opposition. A survey conducted among businessmen by the National Bank of Australasia Ltd and the Australian Chamber of Commerce recently showed that, of those businessmen interviewed, 73 per cent believed that the August Budget would have no real positive effect on the general business climate over the next 12 months. Twothirds of those interviewed thought that the proposed tax cuts would have little or no effect on demand. The Australian Chamber of Commerce believes that the only way to stimulate employment in Australia is a major program of capital works, which I point out to the Senate was a program advocated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and  Mr Hayden  two months ago. That is the sort of climate amongst businessmen at the moment and it is not improved by speculation about an election. However, it does confirm the view which the Opposition has put that the reason an election might be sought by the Government is that the problems to which I have referred are likely to be much worse next year than they are this year. There are other problems which the Government Parties have in Victoria and elsewhere which are likely to be much worse in the next few weeks than they are now but those matters already have been the subject of debate in the Senate. 
The Prime Minister is on record as saying that continued speculation about an election is damaging to the economy. We had this from a highly authoritative source. On 28 September this year when speaking in Brisbane, the Prime Minister said that continuous speculation about an election is damaging to business confidence and to the economy. He went on to say: 
I very much regret the nature of the speculation that is taking place. I wish it did not occur. 
Of course, there is a lot of cynicism about that comment coming from the Prime Minister because there are various views about the source of election speculation and one source which is quite widely pointed to is the Prime Minister's office itself. This sort of speculation is consistent with the number of elections we have had in Australia in the past five years and the methods by which other elections in the past five years have been brought about. If an election is held this year, it will mean that we have had national elections four time in five years. Three of those elections have been brought about prematurely by the coalition parties behaving in a manner not dissimilar from the manner in which the Prime Minister is now behaving. I remind honourable senators that the first of those elections was in May 1974 when the Senate threatened to reject Supply. That was a result of coalition initiative. We have the word of  Senator Withers,  another authority in these matters, that that election had been planned since the Labor Government came to office in December 1972. From December 1972 until May 1974 plans were in progress to subvert the normal procedure for holding elections in Australia to bring about an election prematurely in a way - 
-' Hear, hear', says  Senator Withers.  He is proud of taking the Australian people to elections on so many occasions in five year. He is proud of the money which his Department will have to spend in conducting those electionstaxpayers money which he is - 
-Senator Withers is proud of the taxpayers' money which he has caused the people of Australia to spend. It is immaterial to me in the context of this debate what  Mr Whitlam  wants. The subject of the debate is not what  Mr Whitlam  wants. The subject of the - 
I am speaking for myself. The subject of the debate is what the Prime Minister wants, what the Prime Minister is doing by way of speculation and what he is causing by way of. speculation.  Mr Whitlam  's wants are no different from or more significant than those of any other person who is elected to this Parliament. As I see it, the subject is the attitude and conduct of the Prime Minister. I refer to the May 1974 election and his part in that election. I refer the Senate again to 1975.  Mr Snedden  will remember the Ides of March in 1975 when he was deposed as Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia. He will remember the way in which the election was subsequently brought about in 1975. It was brought about by speculation of the kind we are used to now. Numbers in the Senate were used ultimately to bring about an artificial and premature election. The coalition Government has an interesting track record in relation to the forcing of elections prematurely at great cost not only in terms of the cost of those actual elections but also in terms of the cost to the interruption of ordinary life in this country and particularly interruption to the economic life of this country. 
The facts are that in 1974 some five months of governing was lost through the period of the Labor Government as the result of that election which was brought about precipitately. In 1975 another period of some three to four months was lost because of the conduct of the then Opposition and the way in which the election was forced. In each of those cases, of course, there could not but be speculation amongst businessmen about what would happen and the incapacity of the government of the day to get any leadership in relation to economic matters in the normal sense of the term. Again, we are threatened with that situation in 1 977 in a period of record unemployment and sadly lacking business confidence. Again, it looks as though the people of Australia are to be the subject of speculation and probably an election which will cause the interruption to economic management which I have indicated. 
That is a very specious sort of view. I am surprised that  Senator Missen  should be so flippant about a matter which is so serious. It is very disappointing indeed.  Senator Missen  obviously is not concerned for a moment about interruptions to the business life of this country so long as he and his colleague the Prime Minister - 
Can seize the advantage of the day to try to maintain power again. I was coming to that subject. 

 -Poor Senator Chaney from Western Australia is still bleating about the Latrobe Valley as if that was of particular concern to the people of his State. The fact of the matter is that  Senator Chaney  probably will talk about the Latrobe Valley for the next ten years because he has precious little else to talk about in this Parliament. I was making the point about continual interruption to business management and the economic life of this country. It is surpassed only by the continual interruption that I have had from honourable senators opposite during the course of this debate. I have referred to the Prime Minister's view that speculation was damaging. But strangely the  Deputy  Prime Minister does not find it damaging or does not find it damaging to the same extent. He puts a completely different view from the view of the Prime Minister. I wish to quote a memorable passage of the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  which appeared in the  Age  today. I have already quoted it in the Senate. When dealing with the question of industrial relations, he said: 
Sooner or later, the Government has to face up to this issue and go to the Australian people and say: 'We're prepared to govern with courage ana with a sense of responsibility, but you 've got to back us. 
We can't do that knowing we've got only six months life in the Parliament. 
You've got to know that we are going to stand up there and be firm and know that we 've got a period of two or three years in front of us to try and get this country under control '. 
On the one hand the Prime Minister says that election speculation is damaging to business. I am quite sure that it is. I agree with him. On the other hand, the  Deputy  Prime Minister has said that election speculation is a good sort of thing. He states that perhaps the Government does not have the courage to govern now with the biggest majority in the parliamentary history of this country but if we have an election somehow it may get that courage. If ever there were cause for speculation it would arise from that sort of remark from the  Deputy  Prime Minister. The results of that sort of speculation will lead the average Australian elector to scratch his head and say: 'If they cannot govern now with a record majority for God 's sake what will they be like if we have an election and the majority is reduced? They will be worse'. We have this extraordinary dichotomy of views between the purported Leader of this country and the purported  Deputy  Leader of this country which are quite different and really quite contrary one to the other. 
I said at the beginning that this Government has a concern with the maintenance of power. I referred to the  Financial Review  editorial which pointed out that the speculation about an election was not a question about speculation of policies which this country so desperately needs in the manpower area, in the industry area and in the industrial relations area, as Government spokesmen tell us. It is not a question about those matters. As far as the Government is concerned, it is purely a question of power. I will conclude my remarks by referring again to the editorial in the  Financial Review of 25  October 1977 which discusses this very issue that is the subject of debate in the Senate. The heading to the editorial was: 'Economy the first election casualty'. No doubt there will be others on the Government side. But according to the article, the economy is likely to be the first casualty. The article states: 
Much of the damage to domestic and international confidence could have been minimised by a short, sharp election campaign. But instead we have had an extended period of pre-election jitters, which cannot be totally unrelated to the fact that the capital account of the balance of payments has remained weak despite the shoring up program of foreign borrowings and stand-by facilities. 
For this the Prime Minister must take full responsibility, and it is something that should be taken into account when striking the balance of pros and cons on his economic management. 
As that article states, the Prime Minister must take full responsibility. It is that matter about which the Opposition is concerned in moving the motion to discuss this matter of urgency. 
Senator Jessop has largely been talking about agricultural matters in this first reading debate on the Oilseeds Levy Bill 1977. 1 want to talk about cultural rather than agricultural matters and refer particularly to two questions which were asked in the Senate this morning by  Senator Melzer  and me regarding the removal of the Terry Lane program from radio station 3LO in Melbourne. I will indicate at the beginning some of the public concern that has been aroused by this matter in Melbourne by referring to this morning's Melbourne  Age  in which in a section entitled 'Access Age' under the heading 'Unanimous Outrage at the Axing of Terry Lane' a number of telephoned views have been published. Perhaps they express more eloquently than I can the feelings of people who have been listeners to that program. 
I do not know what is upsetting  Senator Baume  at this time of night, and I did not even catch his interjection, but if he listens he may be better informed. The views to which I refer are all short. One comment is: 
It was only because of Terry Lane's voice of sweet reason that I listened to 3LO. The ABC  chairman, Mr Norgard,  is cutting his own throat, I hope! 
That comment may be unkind to  Mr Norgard  because he as  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission may have had nothing to do with the decision to remove the Terry Lane program. Nonetheless it expresses the concern of one listener. Another view is: 
If this gentleman is so dangerous that he must be silenced then heaven help Australia. 
Another reader stated: 
When the gentle Terry Lane and his millions of listeners have had their talk-back program wiped out, our Government begins to look hypocritical in mouthing prim platitudes about South African repression. It is sad that open discussion of issues cannot be tolerated in Australia. 
Another view reads: 
With the removal of Terry Lane from morning radio, it's back to the kitchen sink and the soap opera for women who must comprise the majority of his audience. 
-I did not suggest that at all and if the honourable senator would be good enough to listen he would understand what I am saying. 
-If the honourable senator is prepared to wait I will come to the point about which he expresses concern but about which he is not really concerned at all because he is leaving the chamber. That view continues: 
Is this the latest move in a planned campaign to set women back to their former situation of ignorance and impotence? 
Another comment was: 
We are extremely upset by the ABC's decision to transfer Terry Lane. His knowledgeable and even-paced presentation has given thousands of listeners extreme enjoyment. This is just another example of the commissioners' gutlessness. 
I do not think that is fair to the commissioners of the ABC because I believe that they have not discussed the question of the removal of the Terry Lane program. However, it may be an example of the gutlessness of the management of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to which I shall refer in a moment and, in so doing, I will allude to the point which is concerning  Senator Chaney. 
-Who has come back into the chamber. Another view was: 
It is with distress and amazement that I read of the cancellation of Terry Lane's talk-back program. It had appeared that there was general agreement in the community on the high quality and fair-mindedness of this program. Surely, this decision will be reconsidered. 
Questions were asked about this matter in the chamber this morning because it is a matter of concern to thousands of people in Melbourne.  Mr Lane  conducted a thoughtful discussion program of the talk-back variety and it has been common knowledge in broadcasting circles for some months that it was the intention of the ABC management to dismiss  Mr Terry  Lane when it got the opportunity. I am not suggesting that there was any particular reason for this except that it may be because of the sort of gutlessness to which one of those telephone callers referred. But it is extraordinary that  Mr Lane  was dismissed yesterday after on Monday in his talkback program, as is his wont, he had taken an item from the newspapers to discuss with his talk-back listeners. The item he took from the newspapers on Monday was the uranium demonstrations in Brisbane. He discussed that item and on Tuesday he was dismissed. I am not prepared to say that he was dismissed because of that program. But one can only suspect that that might have been the catalyst which resulted in the removal of this program from 3LO. If it was not the circumstance which resulted in the removal of the Terry Lane program from 3LO the management of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is very stupid because thousands upon thousands of listeners will think that it was the reason why  Mr Lane  was dismissed from this program which he conducts every morning. 
Whatever the reason, the dismissal itself was either wrong- and I believe it to be profoundly wrong- or most absurdly timed, and the ABC should be very quick to account for it. The extraordinary thing about all this- and this should be of interest to Government senators- is that, whatever one says about the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the fact is that thousands of people in Melbourne think that  Mr Lane  was removed because of an atmosphere which has been engendered in the Australian Broadcasting Commission by this Government. After all, we live in a society in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  boasted before he became Prime Minister that he would take politics off the front pages of the newspapers. I do not know whether he thought that he was appealing to the bikie section of the electorate or to people of that kind when he made that statement; but the statement must be a matter of concern to any country which has aspirations to be anything other than a banana republic. The fact is that by this act it has been perceived by many people that not only has an attempt been made to take politics off the front pages of the newspapers but also has an attempt been made to stifle the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in a variety of ways. We live in a very strange society in Australia. In every other country of equivalent sophistication and pretentions to democracy the national broadcasting service is always referred to as the state broadcasting service and the other broadcasting services, here known as the 'commercials', are referred to as the independent broadcasting services. 
In Australia we do it the other way around. The independent broadcasting services are conducted by the state. Those broadcasting services which are regarded as not independent, and quite rightly so, are the commercial broadcasting services, both radio and television. 
If, as I suspect, the decision to remove the Terry Lane program was taken by some rather mealy-mouthed and small-minded bureaucrats in the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the hope of pleasing their political masters, that is a dreadful thing. But I believe that the sort of atmosphere in which that type of decision can be taken has been engendered over quite a period of time by the actions of various Ministers of this Government and more specifically by the repeated threats to the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which have been evidenced in the continued cuts in its appropriations made by this Parliament since the present Government came to office. We have seen continued cuts in the ABC budget and consequential cuts in its capacity to make programs of a great variety. 
Not only have there been cuts in the funds of the Australian Broadcasting Commission; there have also been a considerable number of quite thinly-veiled threats and other approaches to the Australian Broadcasting Commission by various Ministers of this Government.  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport in the present Government, has continually made threats against the Commission, has had its program  This Day Tonight  monitored by a Melbourne monitoring service and, on at least one occasion I know of, referred the contents of a  This Day Tonight  program to the Prime Minister for comment.  Mr 
Sinclair, the Leader of the House in the other place, has been a frequent user of the telephone to ABC management to complain about particular programs which he does not like. These are Ministers in the Government which repeatedly mouths cliches about the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is in this sort of atmosphere, engendered by what is sometimes overt and in many cases covert interference with the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, that this situation has come about in which members of the management staff of the Commission feel that they might be attracting favourable attention of their political mentors by taking the sort of action which has now been taken in Melbourne. 
I wish that we heard a little more talk from Government senators about this important issue. I do regard it as important in terms of the values which I believe and hope that people like  Senator Baume  and  Senator Lajovic  hold. The mark of the sort of vital democracy which we hope to be is the independent and free discussion that takes place both in private and on the air waves in Australia- on television and radio- and which is reflected in the media in a variety of ways. The lack of reflection of that sort of discussion is the subject of a much wider debate. But when we have instances like this of quite direct interference, as I see it, with the affairs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission as an independent broadcasting authority and the consequences which flow from that I believe that we have a very serious situation for this country. 
I seem to be quoting the  Financial Review  quite a bit lately. However, the newspaper stated in a recent editorial that  Mr Fraser  has now given a new definition of loyalty in this country. One wonders what sort of definition of loyalty he will be giving next. If the Prime Minister expects that sort of loyalty from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, we are on our way to living in a very grey society and one which I do not believe any of us can be particularly proud to live in. These sorts of things could not happen in Great Britain. They could not happen in countries like Sweden and West Germany, countries which are vital democracies ofthe kind to which I hope Australia would aspire to be. 
-That is the sort of halfbaked, half-ignorant interjection which - 
It is the sort of interjection I would expect from  Senator Lajovic  in the context of this matter. 
-Senator Lajovic undoubtedly will make a speech about this subject which is dear to his heart and explain to the Senate what a iniquitous organisation the British Broadcasting Commission is. It is unfortunate that not many people agree with him on this matter. Of course, not many Australians agree with him about the sort of attitude which he apparently condones towards the ABC. Some 75 per cent of Australian people have a high degree of confidence in the news and current affairs programs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. They will not continue to have that confidence if this sort of thing continues to take place. The problem with which I am concerned is that the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which has been under attack from a great variety of sources recently and more particularly from this Government in terms of economic strictures which it has placed upon it, will not have many friends left and much respect left as a broadcasting service if this sort of thing takes place at the management level. It is that concern which I want to voice in the Senate tonight in respect to the removal of the Terry Lane program. 
The Government would be very well served in the current political environment if the responsible Minister did as he can do; that is, inquire of the Australian Broadcasting Commissioners, none of whom has considered this matter of the removal of this program, whether they might review the decision which has been made by the Victorian management eschelon presumably with the approval of  Mr Keith  Mackriell, the Director of Radio Services. 
-Yes, I have assumed that. 
-He may have been removed because he had a beard and red hair. I do not know. But the point I am making is that the perception of his listening audience in Melbourne is that that is why it has happened. In the circumstances of this Government s treatment of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, it is not a bad perception at all. What I am suggesting to Government senators is that they should be a little active in seeing that this does not continue to happen. If they do, people will say that this sort of thing happens under the Fraser Government which wants to put politics off the front pages of the newspapers and which wants to discipline the ABC, as certain Ministers have said. That sort of thing happens and people are saying that. I draw that to the attention of Government senators because if they are concerned about this matter and if they are concerned about having a genuinely independent national broadcasting service, they should stand up and say so. None of them, in fact, has done so in this chamber nor have their colleagues in the other chamber since this incident took place. 
-No. I understand the point which the honourable senator is seeking to make. The point which I am making is a different one and I hope that the honourable senator will devote some attention to trying to understand that. The point I make is that  Senator Lajovic  as a politician would be well served if he stood up occasionally and expressed some genuine concern about the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the broadcasting debates which take place in this chamber. Perhaps he will have an opportunity to do so next week when we debate the broadcasting and television legislation. That legislation will be available for all honourable senators to debate next week. 
I am concerned that in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and in particular in relation to what has happened m Melbourne there is another example of the grey palsied hand of conservatism resting on a great national institution with very grave and detrimental effects to the freedom of information and the dissemination of news in this country. If that is so, it is something about which this Parliament ought to be very concerned. I hope others will join me in expressing that concern. I am very worried that if what I have suggested does happen we will more rapidly than I otherwise would have expected attain the status of some sort of banana republic which has the respect of no country which would aspire to democratic freedoms equivalent to those to which I hope members of this Parliament do. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
-I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer the Minister to his answer to  Senator Walsh's  question. I ask: Does the Minister regard it as being a satisfactory answer in this Parliament to a question about whether a Minister had misled the Parliament to indulge in vituperative comment about somebody else who is not in the Parliament? Has the Minister for Social Security misled the Senate? What are the standards of the Government in relation to Ministers who so mislead the Parliament? 
I rise to speak about matters of appropriation which are not necessarily matters of public appropriation but which may be regarded by cynics in the community as matters of private appropriation. I begin by referring the Senate to the Report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament on the Declaration of Interests of members of parliament which was handed down in September 1975. At the outset I refer to some of the important conclusions reached by that Committee of this Parliament in September 1975. They are: 
Members of Parliament should disclose the names of all companies in which they have a beneficial interest in shareholdings, no matter how insignificant, whether as an individual, member of another company, or partnership, through a trust. 
Members of Parliament should disclose the location of any realty in which they have a beneficial interest. 
Members of Parliament should declare the names of all companies of which they are directors even if the directorship is unremunerated. 
vi) Members of Parliament should declare any sponsored travel. 
Members of Parliament should provide the information required in the form of a statutory declaration to a Parliamentary Registrar who shall be directly responsible to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. It is reasonable and proper to allow the public to have access to the information disclosed on establishing to the satisfaction of the Registrar and with the approval of the  President  or  Speaker  that a bona fide reason exists for such access . . . 
On assuming office.'a Minister of the Crown should resign any directorships of public companies and dispose of any shares in a public or private company which might be seen to be affected by decisions taken within the Minister's ' sphere of responsibility. 
Ministerial Staff should make a written declaration to the Minister by whom they are employed of those types of pecuniary interests which it is recommended should be registered by Members of Parliament. A copy of the declaration made by each staff member should be given to the Prime Minister. 
The staff of the Opposition Leaders and their appointed spokesman should be required to declare their pecuniary interests in a manner similar to that required of ministerial staff. 
Since that report was handed down in September 1975, nothing has happened in terms of the recommendations which the Joint Committee, on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament-an all party committee- made to the Parliament. I will cite a very important section of the report which gives some of the reasons why its recommendations should have been carried out and the urgency with which the Committee in 1975 saw that they should be carried out. The Committee said this in a most important statement on page 44 of its report: 
It will be perceived that the thread which has been running through the fabric of this Report is that of concern for the welfare and integrity of public life which is being demeaned by various forces, but particularly by that of insidious cynicism accompanied as it is by destructive denigration. While making proposals to redress this situation due care has been given to the delicate mechanisms of our society which is of necessity a complementary partnership. This partnership of the people is a partnership between responsive Government, a constructive Parliament, a loyal Opposition, a dedicated Public Service, 
The Committee finished that paragraph with this sentence: 
In such an interdependent community that which is within the power of Parliament and its partners to do to promote this objective should be done with alacrity and with total disregard to self interest. 
That was a message of urgency which a committee of this Parliament gave to the Parliament in 1975. 1 would think that most members of this Parliament believe that we should have the highest standards in Australia in relation to this question of the pecuniary interests of members of this Parliament. After all, in 1975  Mr Fraser  promised us sound management and honest government. There was a lot said in 1975 about the importance of honest government. Honest government involves not just honesty in itself but also the people of this country being able to see that government is honest and that it is perceived to be honest by the people to avoid the sort of cynicism to which the report in 1975 referred. One would have thought that this Government or this Parliament should have nothing to fear from honest disclosure of financial interests. 
Of course, the matter has come to light again in my State of Victoria quite recently with the inquiry into land dealings in that State in which, whatever the results of the inquiry being conducted into land dealings is, it is perceived by a large number of people that there has been a situation in that State in which there must be very grave doubts about the honesty and integrity of a number of public servants. It is also perceived that there must be very grave doubts about the competence and perhaps the honesty of a number of Ministers in the State Government in Victoria. Although that inquiry relates to Victoria, it must be a matter of concern to this Parliament as well. The essential point about the report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament is simply this: The public is entitled to know, for very obvious reasons. 
I would argue not only that the public is entitled to know- of course, that is the most important thing- but also that we all should be diligent to see that in this country we have standards which are as high as those in other countries with similar pretentions to our own. For example, in the United States of America the policy of the Senate is stated quite clearly. It is that senators, officers and employees of the Senate make full and complete public disclosures of their financial holdings. The position in Great Britain is very well stated in Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice  and is stated quite explicitly in the  Clerk  of the Senate's book  Australian Senate Practice.  The section of the latter book which deals with the declaration of interests is to be particularly commended for the way in which it sets out this whole matter. I will quote the learned Clerk's reference to the particular point of the 1975 report. On page 283 of the book he states, in relation to the situation in Great Britain: 
In 1975 the House of Commons agreed, by resolution, to the declaration and registration of Members interests. It is now a rule of the House that every Member - 
Not just Ministers or the staff of Ministers- shall furnish to the Registrar of Members' Interests such particulars as shall be required, and shall notify to the Registrar any alterations which may occur therein, and the Registrar shall cause these particulars to be entered in the Register of Members' Interests which shall be available to the public. Interests required to be declared cover the classes of pecuniary interest or benefit which might reasonably be thought to influence the conduct of Members of Parliament. However, Members are not required to disclose the amounts of any remuneration or benefit received. 
That statement is consistent with the statement set out in Erskine May's book. Commenting on the situation in Australia following the 1975 report, the  Clerk  had this to say: 
In a unanimous report - 
I emphasise that it was a unanimous report- the Committee found that the usefulness of a register lies not in the ability to detect fraud or impropriety but as a means of assuring the public that decisions affecting it are made in the public interest. The system recommended was one whereby Members of Parliament would be required to declare their interests in general terms. 
I have outlined the situation in Australia following the 1975 report. The situation recommended is not the actual situation here. It is the situation in the United States of America and it is the situation in Great Britain. I do not bother to refer to countries such as Norway where people in public life such as members of Parliament not only have to disclose their proprietary interests or their pecuniary interests in various forms of property but also are bound to disclose their incomes which are published annually in newspapers. 
One might ask: Why not, if people are purporting to take part in public life in a manner which is beyond public reproach or public cynicism? 
Following the report of the 1975 Committee the position in a sense is documented by questions that have been asked in this Parliament of both  Senator Withers  in this place and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the House of Representatives. On 18 February 1976, in answer to a question without notice, the Prime Minister said that the recommendations of the 1975 Committee were being taken into account in formulating the requirements of declarations by Ministers and staffs. He said that the Government had not fully determined its attitude to the report as a whole and that senior public servants also would be considered in the determination of the Government's attitude. In April 1976, in answer to a question on notice regarding alleged conflicts of interest which  Sir Henry  Bland was alleged to have as  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Prime Minister said: 

 Sir Henry Bland is a consultant to the Government. I am certain that he would advise me if he had any conflict of interest. 
That is a complete misunderstanding of the brunt of the report of the parliamentary Committee. It is not up to the individual to notify the Prime Minister in those circumstances of his own volition whether he has any conflict of interest. One would have thought that it would be something which was demanded by the Government. In October 1976 in answer to a further question relating to  Sir Henry  Bland, in which it was pointed out to the Prime Minister that  Sir Henry  was a director of five companies which were being examined by the Prices Justification Tribunal at the time of  Sir Henry's  appointment, the Prime Minister went on to say that  Sir Henry  Bland had not advised him of any conflict of interest. So again it was being left to a person who might be said to have a pecuniary interest contrary to the interests of this Parliament and of government to decide quite subjectively whether any conflict of interest existed. 
In December 1976 in answer to a question asked by  Senator Colston  here in the Senate we were told that the Government was still considering the report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests. The Leader of the Government in the Senate informed the Senate that Ministers already made declarations to the Prime Minister which took into account the recommendations of the Joint Committee and that ministerial staffs made declarations in a similar form. With respect, what a very cosy way of doing it. The purport of the report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests was that the whole question was one of public disclosure. But here we have this nice little in-club arrangement whereby Ministers in the Fraser Government notify  Mr Fraser  himself whether they have any pecuniary interests which might be in conflict with the sorts of principles which have been enunciated by parliaments in Britain, the United States and here. What a cosy little arrangement for the Government to enter into. 
That was the position in December 1976. In February 1977 m answer to another question  Senator Colston  was told that the information provided by Ministers was provided on a confidential basis and it was not intended to make it public. In May 1977, in answer to a question from  Senator Colston, Senator Withers  said that the pecuniary interest question was still under consideration by the Government and that the implementation of the proposals of the Joint Committee would not require legislation. 
In August 1977 in answer to a further question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  the Prime Minister said that an interdepartmental committee was looking at both the Royal Commission's recommendations and at the recommendations of the parliamentary committee to see to what extent they were compatible so that the Government would be in a position to make a decision on the whole question of pecuniary interests in relation to both members of Parliament and public servants. The Prime Minister went on in his answer to deny that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  had any conflict of interest because of his association with a company of funeral directors. That again might be regarded as a cause for some cynicism. 
The record of this Government in its answers to the questions which have been raised about this matter is one of evasion and prevarication. In none of the answers to those questions asked over a period of time is there reference to any apparent intention by the Government to do anything about the report of that Committee. There is no attempt to discuss or to distinguish various types of interest or to disclose those interests in any public sense. That is despite the fact that the Prime Minister wrote to Ministers on 13 January 1976 a letter in which he indicated that he would be seeking the co-operation of Ministers concerning the matter of public duty and private interests of Ministers. The conflict between public duty and private interests of Ministers is referred to quite apparently in the Prime Minister's letter. The copy of the letter which I have was sent to  Mr Anthony.  The final two paragraphs state: 
I emphasise that it is the responsibility of each Minister to avoid any conflict of interest arising and to inform me of any significant changes in the information provided in response to this letter. 
I am available to discuss with you any aspects of the matters I have referred to. The information provided will of course be kept on a strictly personal and confidential basis. 
The consequence of that sort of approach to this issue is as I have pointed out already. The Prime Minister has taken advantage of this report of the Joint Committee of the Parliament to say: 'I want to know- as Prime Minister I am entitled to know- from all my Ministers what particular proprietary interests they have, what are their shareholdings, their interests in rural land, their company directorships and so on. I am entitled to know but the public is not. It is a matter which we will keep in-club in this Government. I will have the information and not one iota of that information will be made available to the public'. That is the exact obverse of what the Joint Committee of this Parliament recommended. It recommended that this was a matter of public concern and public interest and that it was not a matter solely for the Prime Minister any more than for any other citizen. The Prime Minister has turned that all around to create this situation of Ministers reporting to him on the matter in a manner which is totally in-club. I use that term advisedly, but it is appropriate to this Government in so many of its endeavours. 
Why should Ministers report to the Prime Minister about this matter? Is it sought to lead the people to think that if Malcolm Fraser knows about those interests there can be no crook Minister in this Government because Malcolm Fraser will look after the matter and will see that there is no conflict of interest? Apparently the people of Australia are asked to accept the word of a Prime Minister whose word has never been answered for in questions which have been directed to him, a Prime Minister in whom, according to the polls, 27 per cent of the Australian people have confidence. Only 27 per cent of the Australian public, who are the people concerned with the consequences of this report, have confidence in the man who is going to decide whether Ministers have a conflict of interest in regard to their private dealings and their public responsibilities. This is perhaps another fascinating insight into life at the top, but it is not the sort of insight to which the people of Australia are entitled on the basis of a unanimous report of this Parliament. 
Why would the Government not want to implement the recommendation which the Joint Committee of the Parliament has made? Why would the Prime Minister want to keep all this information to himself? I refer the Senate again to the content of that report, in which the Committee stated that the main thread of the report was the fact that public life in this country is being demeaned by various forces, but particularly by the force of insidious cynicism, accompanied as it is by destructive denigration. Why would the Prime Minister not want to examine the situation of the public interest and private interests of his Ministers? I do not know the answer to that question, but let me refer honorable senators to a few examples. Let me refer honourable senators first of all to the case of the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country  (Mr Anthony)  who, through a very substantial family interest in a company known as Northern Star Holdings Ltd, has a controlling interest in television stations NRN11 and RTN8 in northern New South Wales.  His  family has a controlling interest in radio stations 4GG on the Gold Coast, 2MW in Murwillumbah and 2LM in Lismore, and in a dozen commercial newspapers in the area between South Brisbane and Coffs Harbour. That is a substantial interest which the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, through his family, has directly in companies which could bring him in conflict with his public responsibilities as a Minister of the Crown and about which there has not been disclosure presumably to anybody other than to the Prime Minister of Australia. 
The Leader of the House in the other place,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, is a very substantial shareholder in Television New England Ltd, which has a nice arrangement with the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the sharing of a television translator station near Tamworth in New South Wales. That is a company which makes substantial profits and which, by the arrangement with Telecom, obtains a substantial benefit from taxpayers' money which is put into that television translator station by means of appropriations of this Parliament. In dealing with the question of the declaration of private interests, one would like to know whether  Mr Sinclair  made a declaration which engendered him to feel that he might be disposed not to take part in Cabinet discussions when the Broadcasting and Television Act was being amended. He might have felt that it was inappropriate for him to vote in the Parliament when the Act was being amended. The same could be said about  Mr Anthony.  Because of his family holdings perhaps he should have declined to take part when the 
Broadcasting and Television Act was being amended. 
One can follow up the situation of Ian Sinclair through his association- if I can call it that for want of a better expression- with the Sinclair Pastoral Company. That company has substantial interests in shopping premises in Weetangera and Latham in the Australian Capital Territory about which the public is entitled to know. The public is entitled to know whether Ministers of the Crown have interests which could conflict with legislation or ordinances relating to the Australian Capital Territory which have been passed by the Parliament. One wonders whether  Mr Sinclair  thought fit to disclose that information to the Cabinet when those matters were being discussed. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who is a member of this chamber, has as his principal private secretary  Mr Wally  Summons. He was private secretary to the Minister when he was in opposition. From the time this Government obtained office until February this year  Mr Summons  was director of a company called Waugh and Josephson Holdings Ltd which had contracts with the Government in that period. I am not suggesting that the Minister or  Mr Summons  are involved in any impropriety but the people of Australia are entitled to know these things. The Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament said that the people of Australia were entitled to know these things. With respect,  Mr Summons,  as a director of a public company such as Waugh and Josephson which was accepting contracts from this Government, should not have been private secretary to the Minister for Business and Commerce. 
-I am indebted to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. The cynics to which the Committee report refers might talk about some section of industry or commerce which the Minister presides over through his staff. I shall not put the matter any higher than that but that is not the whole point. The Committee report recommends specifically that Members of Parliament, not just Ministers, should disclose the location of any realty in which they have a beneficial interest. I understand from various reports that one can put in that basket from the Cabinet  Mr Anthony,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Sinclair,  the Leader of the House of Representatives,  Mr Fraser,  the Prime Minister,  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Street,  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Hunt,  the Minister for Health,  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport and  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science. Those are just a few examples. None of those Ministers has complied with the standards which the report recommends they should comply with. All those Ministers have participated in discussions, Cabinet decisions and decisions of the Parliament relating to primary industry which have involved substantial benefits to primary producers. None of them has stood up in the Parliament and declared his interests. None of them has done any of the things which might be considered to be consistent with the public interest in this country. As far as we know, none of them has declined to take part in Cabinet discussions or any of those matters. 
These are only examples of the point I am seeking to make. If it was so desired I could point to other honourable senators, not Ministers, who have pecuniary interests of the kind which the report sought to deal with but I am content to let the matter rest with Ministers. After all there is a fair swag of them to illustrate my point. It looks very much as though that is only the tip of the iceberg. The point with which I am concerned is that a situation in which Ministers have holdings of this kind is by any standards of English speaking democracies a public scandal. It is confounded and compounded by the fact that not only has the situation not improved, it is also being made worse by this in-club arrangement which the Prime Minister has arrived at in which he assures Ministers that he is prepared to have a chat with them about the matter but any information will be strictly personal and on a confidential basis. He gives no involvement to the public of Australia and there are no declarations to the Parliament as a committee of the Parliament thought there should be. 
This matter has been of longstanding concern to me. It was brought to my mind most recently by the allegations of impropriety by Ministers and public servants in my own State of Victoria. I felt it would be wrong for me to take part in any criticism of those people if my own house, the Senate, was not in order. I felt it appropriate that 1 should raise the matter here before participating at great length in any debate about anything which might be happening in the Victorian Parliament. It is proper that this Senate and this Parliament should set an example to the parliaments of Australia of a kind which has been set by the 
Westminster Parliament and the United States Congress. 
-The first thing we did when somebody got on to  Senator Webster's  private interests- I think he was the senator involved- was to appoint a committee to inquire into this question. It made a report in September 1975.  Senator Webster  might remember that in October 1975 he was a member of the then Opposition that took action in the Senate to delay the Budget and bring about a constitutional crisis in this country. There was no possibility of the Government doing anything about the report at that stage. In 1975 the then Opposition promised that it would introduce a new era of 'honest government' as it called it. It has not done much good with respect to this matter. For the information of  Senator Webster,  who came into the chamber late and now wants to know, that is why I am raising the matter today. The present Government talks about public standards. It talks about introducing freedom of information legislation. It talks about a lot of matters which are loosely summarised in the expression 'open government'. But it has done nothing about them in the two years in which it has been in office, in spite of repeated prodding in the form of questions and by other means. 
I have cited a number of examples which might be of interest to  Senator Webster.  They turned up in passing but I am sure that there are plenty more. If  Senator Webster  could persuade his colleagues to make a declaration of interest as the report of the Committee recommended we would hear much more about the matter. 
Might I just conclude by referring again to the important conclusion of that report, which must be of concern to every parliamentarian and, indeed, to the public of Australia, since nothing has been done about it. It reads as follows:   the welfare and integrity of public life which is being demeaned by various forces, but particularly by that of insidious cynicism accompanied as it is by destructive denigration. 
And I refer to the proposals that have been made to redress that situation- 
In such an interdependent community that which is within the power of Parliament and its partners to do to promote this objective should be done with alacrity and with total disregard to self interest. 
Again and again in this report it is stressed that it is not a matter for private arrangements between Ministers or members, as the case may be; that it is a matter of public interest and concern and for that reason there should be public disclosure. I hope the Government will at least begin to think about it as a little less of a pally-wally exercise than it has in the past. 
-I refer the . AttorneyGeneral to the fact that the Trade Practices Commission has recently distributed a letter to hundreds of persons who invested sums of $5,000 each in a fraudulent caravan rental scheme known as Holiday City. The Commissioner suggested that each person pursue a private right of action in relation to this matter. I point out that most persons received no income from the scheme and many did not even obtain a caravan. Can the Attorney-General confirm that legal aid will be provided for these persons suffering hardship in this matter through either the loss of their life savings or other financial commitment to the finance company initially involved in this fraud? I further ask the Attorney-General whether he will confirm that the finance company concerned, Eastrock Finance Pty Ltd, is partly owned by the Lord Mayor of Melbourne? Can the Attorney-General make a statement to allay fears that the interests of persons who have suffered as a result of this fraud will not be properly treated because of the ownership of part of this company by the Liberal Lord Mayor of Melbourne? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Judiciary (Diplomatic Representation) Bill. The simply stated purpose of the Bill is to provide certain machinery circumstances in relation to  Mr Justice  Fox and his appointment as AmbassadoratLarge for the Australian Government in relation to matters concerning nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear safeguards, and to provide for continuity of service in a judicial capacity for  Mr Justice  Fox during the time he occupies the position of Ambassador-at-Large. The Bill will also preserve certain pension rights which  His  Honour has as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. Yesterday in the Senate  Senator Knight  asked the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  a question about the situation of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps I did not understand the answer as well as I should have. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 6 October this year made this statement: 
The Government also proposes to introduce legislation to increase the number of Judges of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court from three to four to allow the Court to operate as necessary at its present strength during the period of  Mr Justice  Fox's appointment as Ambassador-at-Large. 
I do not know whether it is the Government's intention to introduce legislation of that kind as suggested on 6 October or whether the AttorneyGeneral was saying yesterday that there was no need to do that. One of the consequences of the activities of  Mr Justice  Fox in the past few months has been a substantial crisis situation for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. There have been serious delays in processing matters before the Court, including considerable delays for people who have been kept in custody awaiting trial. I hope it follows from the implications of this Bill and from what the Prime Minister said on 6 October- that is, that it would be necessary to introduce legislation to deal with the matter- that the appointments will be made as quickly as possible m order to alleviate that situation. I hope the matter will not be solved by the appointment on a temporary basis of judges who, for reasons of distinction and age, perhaps do not have the capacity to discharge the duties which a judge of the Supreme Court should carry out. 
Apart from that comment, the Opposition has no objection to the Bill. Perhaps this is an opportune time to draw attention to the document which has already been discussed in the Senate this morning during Question Time in relation to  Mr Justice  Fox's views of the international situation regarding nuclear safeguards and proliferation. Apparently he explained those views to officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. We point out that as a result of the sorts of comments which  His  Honour made he will probably be overseas for much longer than one might have thought. If there is to be any solution to the problems which  Mr Justice  Fox suggests, in the statement made to the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, exists, we can only hope that he is successful in finding those solutions. The legislation which is now before the Senate will perhaps assist him in feeling secure in indulging m those discussions in the foreseeable future. 
-The Opposition opposes the Governor-General Amendment Bill which provides for an increase in the future salary of the Governor-General to $37,000 per annum, the current salary of a Governor-General being $30,000 per annum. In each case I think it is important to remember that the salary to which I have referred is a tax free amount. The salary of the office of GovernorGeneral was last determined in 1974 when Kerr was appointed to that office. As I understand it, it was thought by the Government at the time that a salary of $30,000 tax free would be an appropriate salary for the Governor-General of Australia for a period of approximately 10 years. Unfortunately, the term of office of the - 
I understand that it was a matter of discussion at the time. Be that as it may, the rate of inflation may not have declined and perhaps he deserves anincrease in salary in  1977 of the order of $7,000. Unfortunately, the present incumbent of the office was appointed or a term of five years which has been shortened, as it were, by his premature retirement. 
-That may be so. 
-Senator Wright - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator should be allowed to make his own speech. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I will come back to that question if you would like me to,  Senator Wright,  as soon as I can obtain a document relating to it, because whether or not the word 'term' is correct, there was an understanding about it. The GovernorGeneral has now indicated his intention of retiring- as I understand it, on a full pension. 
The question which concerns the Opposition is simply this: Whether there is justification at this time for an increase in salary of $7,000 tax free per annum in the view of the functions of the office and the tasks that a Governor-General has to perform; also, in view of such other factors as the general decline in the increase in the rate of income of most members of the community. In the circumstances, one must ask what singles out the Governor-General for particular attention of this kind. He is to be the recipient of a very significant increase. 
If one examines the office from the point of view of cost-benefit to Australian society, a number of questions, which are of concern to many, do arise. In addition to the GovernorGeneral's salary, the cost of maintaining his establishment is of the order of $1,078,000. That figure can be extrapolated from the Estimates of the Senate in this way: It includes the salaries of the Governor-General's official staff, travel costs, office requisites, stationery, printing, et cetera; maintenance of the official residences at Government House, Admiralty House, the Lodge and Kirribilli, as well as all the services that go with those establishments. Therefore, in addition to the salary of $37,000 tax free, the office of the Governor-General costs the taxpayers something over $lm a year. In terms of cost-benefit one must ask whether that expenditure is justified. I do not myself know what a Governor-General does. I realise, from my experience in this Parliament, that from time to time he attends meetings of the Executive Council and sometimes signs documents at those meetings. 
-I have not come to that yet,  Senator. 
-I do not know why  Senator Withers  is so peculiarly sensitive about the office of the Governor-General. He is generally sensitive at the moment, but I do not know why he should feel the need to leap into the battle on behalf of the institution of Governor-General. Perhaps we ought to have a serious debate about it at some stage and doubtless  Senator Withers  would be able to make a highly intelligent contribution to that. 
My point is that it is a very large sum of money to pay for a figurehead when I, speaking as one member of the the Senate, do not really know what he does. In addition to attending meetings of the Executive Council, according to the column 'Top of the Town' in the  Sydney Morning Herald  he also attends odd functions from time to time, presents Melbourne Cups and so on. It does not seem to be the sort of office which justifies a salary of the kind that is described in this legislation. Perhaps the incoming Governor-General is to be paid what might be called, in industrial relations, an attraction rate. Perhaps the Government had to pay $37,000 tax free to get the new GovernorGeneral. Perhaps nobody was prepared to accept at the lower salary. It may be an attraction rate but, in terms of cost-benefit consideration, a great deal of the taxpayers' money is being expended to maintain the institution. It is not so much,  Senator Chaney,  that a  president  might do better, as that a  president  might be cheaper and work harder. That is the argument: It is somewhat of a figurehead institution. 
It is a matter of genuine concern, that an institution such as this should, like the Parliament, be seen to be one which behaves with dignity and justifies its existence in terms of what it produces. This is a concern expressed not just by Opposition supporters, but by many in the community generally. We never examine these questions; we simply have legislation which alters the salary of the office. 
When one discusses the institution of the Governor-General one can recommend for the lighter reading over the holidays of people such as  Senator Chaney  who, I know- as distinct from  Senator Withers-  does read books, and for  Senator Hall,  who will doubtless be unemployed after 10 December, a number of works on the subject. The institution of the Governor-General has in the last year or two attracted a tremendous amount of writing. One is surprised to note that there has been no writing concerning it in Government circles, except of course a Bill to increase the salary of the incumbent. 
-You of course, by your own admission, would not know. You never read books. 
It is only left wing garbage now? I know the honourable senator does not read newspapers. I would not have thought that on the whole they were left wing garbage, but if that is his description of Australian newspapers so be it. I commend to  Senator Chaney,  who takes a keen delight in these matters, Donald Home's satire,  His  Excellency's Pleasure. The book represents an interesting extrapolation of the constitutional powers which the Governor-General enjoys, and will I hope draw some critical attention to the sort of function which he performs, or ought to performwhich, of course, is a more important matter than is his salary. I do not believe that I should be lured into answering, on behalf of the Opposition,  Senator Chaney  's question about the desirability of having a  president  or a republic. I do not want to be drawn into that. I just think that it is better for conservatives of impeccable authority, such as  Senator Withers,  to think in a critical way about some of the institutions which they persistently try to prop up. That is the point I seek to make. I think we should be looking a little wider in relation to the Governor-General than just to the question of his salary. I think we should be looking also at the nature of the institution, the constitutional function which a Governor-General has, whether those constitutional functions are appropriate in 1977, as they were deemed to be in the Victorian era - 
-Yes, or in 1972. I know that the institution is very dear to the hearts of honourable senators opposite because we have seen in recent years that a Liberal Party, with the aid of the Governor-General, can choose an election at any time, whether the Liberal Party be in opposition or in government. That is a very important faculty for a political party to have. 
-I do not think that he needed the particular aid of his upper House or his Governor to do that. Why do honourable senators opposite think I am here to defend everything which happens in South Australia or in some remote corner of Australia? The other day  Senator Withers  seemed to get extreme delight from my saying in this place that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  could speak for himself about something. I should have thought that was an impeccable proposition in this Parliament. If honourable senators opposite want to march like a team of marching gins in drag behind their leader on every occasion, in total step and totally uncritical, and finally end up like a set of lemmings going over the cliff in that marching process, then good luck to them. But they should not be under the misapprehension that I am here to defend everything that is supposed to be towards the Left in this society and that I have an obligation to do that. I will not discharge such an obligation and I do not want to disappoint honourable senators opposite. 
I think that, as a result of the presentation of this legislation which gives a handout to the office of Governor-General, honourable senators opposite who are so sensitive about decadent institutions in this country, including the office of Governor-General, should think a little more seriously about the nature of that institution, about the constitutional functions which are imposed upon the Governor-General and about the way in which he in fact discharges those functions. 
I am speaking to  Senator Georges'  motion partly to try to indicate the facts as I understand them. I think it is important that there be an understanding of the facts. One of the facts simply is that the question of the relevance of what  Senator McLaren  was saying was not in issue at the time that you asked him to withdraw,  Mr President,  and it is not to the point of the argument for  Senator Withers  to say that the question of relevance was in issue. It was not. What was in issue, as I understand it, was  Senator McLaren's  statement that the Governor-General had breached convention. He said that in the context of making the observation that on 1 1 November 1975 the Governor-General refused to receive the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives who wished to convey to him the fact that a no confidence motion in the Government had been carried by a majority of the House of Representatives. That was the context in which  Senator McLaren  used the words: 'He breached convention'. 
With respect,  Mr President,  your ruling asking him to withdraw on the basis of that remark was based, as I understand it, on Standing Order 417 which states: 
No  Senator shall  use the name of  Her  Majesty or of  Her  representative in thu Commonwealth disrespectfully in Debate . . . 
With the greatest of respect,  Mr President,  although I did not fully apprehend the full purport of  Senator George's  motion of dissent when he moved it, whatever can be said about  Senator McLaren's  remarks, they are not in themselves disrespectful. I thought that  Senator McLaren  was indicating a proposition which, as I understand it, is of great historical antiquity. If the Governor-General of Australia or a Head of State anywhere departs from that proposition he can be described as having breached a convention. Whatever one thinks about the conventionwhether it is right or wrong- is of course a matter of opinion. But with respect, it does not fall within the description of being disrespectful. 
Plenty of allegations have been made or suggested in the context of the debate. I thought that  Senator Withers  was terribly kind to me in relation to what I said earlier. I do not think the words which  Senator McLaren  used can be regarded as being disrespectful. It seems to me that we are dealing with a matter of fact about which we are all a little less informed than we might be. But I thought we would all be informed to the extent of being able to say that there was a convention that the Head of State received the  Speaker  in circumstances such as those that existed on 11 November 1975. 1 believe that any contrary view could not necessarily be described as being in any way disrespectful. 
It has been agreed that all these Bills be dealt with together because they all relate to the same matter. If I may indulge in a mild understatement, the history of the stevedoring industry in this country has been a chequered one. In the past few years a number of discussions and inquiries have been held in relation to the future of that industry and particularly in relation to the future of the body established by statute, namely the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. In the course of those inquiries the names of a number of prominent judges have appeared.  Mr Justice  Woodward,  Mr Justice  Northrop and others have taken part in inquiries relating to problems in the stevedoring industry. There have been problems associated with the employment of labour, a number of industrial problems associated with conditions of employment and problems associated with the profits of stevedoring companies. In all this the Stevedoring Industry Authority has had a difficult role to play. It certainly has been resented, in part, by the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and, one suspects, by the stevedores themselves from time to time. 
I think that effectively this is the fourth time that legislation relating to this matter has come before the Parliament. On previous occasions the legislation has been delaying legislation to put off the introduction of final legislation to deal with the matter. That final legislation is now before the Senate. I suppose that a number of solutions to the structural problems of the industry could have been adopted if one accepts the view that the involvement of the Stevedonng Industry Authority is undesirable. One of those possible solutions eventually has been decided upon by the Government and the Opposition does not oppose that solution, which is to get rid of the Authority and, as it were, to contract out of government involvement in the day to day administration of the industry. If I might express a personal view, it is a decision about which I have some concern for the future. I think it is perhaps fair that the situation which is foreshadowed in this legislation should be given a trial period. Of course, one must have regard to the wishes of the parties involved in the stevedoring industry. 
One of the other solutions which might have been adopted was the nationalisation of the stevedoring industry. I do not want to get into any debate about that subject; I merely say that it is a solution which was and is available to the Australian Government and which certainly would have the effect of getting rid of some of the problems which have existed in the industry in the past. But I certainly would not necessarily offer it as a panacea solution. It is a solution which ought to have been considered and ought to be considered continually in the consideration of the long history of the stevedoring industry and of the manifest need and desire to make that industry more efficient and more productive than it has been in the past. A second solution was to retain a body such as the Stevedoring Industry Authority to fulfil a supervisory role. But that role was becoming increasingly resented by the parties on the waterfront. Whether the solution was to get rid of the Authority altogether or to make some adjustment to the relevant legislation certainly is difficult to say. Certainly  Mr Justice  Northrop, when he considered this matter, seemed to come down with no very definite view on this question; rather, he posed the alternatives as, in a sense, I am doing again now. 
If I have any personal fears about the course which has been adopted by the Government, I suppose they relate to the fact that the stevedoring industry is a very volatile industry, an industry which in the Australian context is probably now a fairly high wage industry and, on the employer side, an industry which is a very high profit industry. I should not like to think that necessarily that combination is always the best in the public interest. I think that is a matter about which we must be concerned. I do not wish to say anything more than to record those fears in the hope that, if the Parliament has occasion to reexamine this matter after the legislation which is before us now has come into operation, some further consideration will be given to those matters. The Opposition does not oppose the Bills, for the reasons I have indicated and for one reason in particular. That is the long and protracted history of the legislation itself and the circumstances in which it now comes before the Parliament at the end of a session. We think it should be given a trial. We hope it is successful although we have some doubts and qualifications about it. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Education in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask: Did the Minister for Post and Telecommunications earlier this year renew the television licence of Channel 9 in Adelaide in breach of the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act? Did other television stations or radio stations have their licences renewed at or about the same time and if so, have they also been open to the criticism that the licences were illegally renewed? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

 -Yes, Mr President. 

-On 3 November 1977 in answering a question in the other place, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that  Senator Button  says that what the Leader of the Opposition says is irrelevant. That statement is not correct and could only be made on the basis of information from an illiterate or a dishonest person. The only possible reference to that could ave been when a statement of that kind occurred in the Senate on 26 October. In the course of the debate dealing with the economic uncertainty created by the Prime Minister's election speculation,  Senator Withers  interjected when I was speaking and he said that  Mr Whitlam  wants an election. I replied: 
It is immaterial to me what  Mr Whitlam  wants in the context of this debate. It is quite immaterial what  Mr Whitlam  wants. The subject of the debate is not what  Mr Whitlam  wants . . . The subject of the debate is what the Prime Minister wants, what the Prime Minister is doing by way of speculation and what he is causing by way of speculation. 
I make this statement solely in order to correct the record and in case any Government senators think they can rely on the accuracy of their Leader's statements. 
I just indicate that it is not the intention of the Opposition to divide on these clauses but that if it is indicated by an Opposition spokesman that we oppose them, that is to be understood. We do not wish to waste the time of the Committee by taking divisions on all these clauses. We would if the circumstances were not such that this legislation is being dealt with in the last hours of the Parliament. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
The Principal Act is amended by inserting after Part III the following Pans:   79ZA  The moneys of the Service shall consist of- 
moneys paid to the Service under section 79% 
moneys received by the Service in respect of the provision of services and facilities; 
the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of any property of the Service (including programs and rights or interests in programs); 
moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister, 
any other moneys derived by the Service in the performance of its functions; and (0 any moneys received by the Service by way of, or as a result of, a gift, devise or bequest.  79zb. The moneys of the Service shall be applied only- 
in payment or discharge of expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Service arising under this Act; and 
in payment of remuneration, allowances and fees payable to members, acting members, the Executive Director, an acting  Executive  Director and persons referred to in section 79y. 87. (1) Subject to this Act, a licence granted otherwise than by way of renewal continues in force for such period (not exceeding 5 years) as is specified in the licence. 
Subject to this Act, a licence granted by way of renewal continues in force for 3 years or such lesser period (being not less than 12 months) as is specified in the licence, but the Tribunal shall not specify a period of less than 3 years unless it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing. 
-The Opposition opposes the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1977. I say to my colleague,  Senator Georges,  that it is obvious why he was on his feet, as he said, not only for reasons which some honourable senators might divine but also because of the content of what he said. It was a vitally relevant contribution to an important debate. It displayed a keen and concerned interest in the subject of broadcasting and television and the administration of that portfolio by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
There are some good features of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. One of those good features is that in part it carries out something of the Government's intention expressed on a number of occasions in relation to the licensing of television and radio broadcasting stations. To that extent, the Opposition welcomes that small segment of the Bill but generally it is so bad that we have no course other than to oppose it as a whole and to move the amendment which stands in my name to the second reading of the Bill 
The amendment to the second reading of the Bill has been proposed because in the dying days of the Parliament it is possible to deal with only the broader issue rather than have a clause by clause debate on all the objectionable features of this legislation. The legislation represents the final move in the Government's broadcasting policy before the election on 10 December. For two years there has been a sorry history of broadcasting administration. At the outset I shall review some of that history briefly because it is vitally relevant to the contents of the present legislation. The characteristics of that history of broadcasting administration have been firstly a continual harassment of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in terms of financial cut backs on a number of occasions which have greatly affected morale and program capacity and standards in the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the national broadcasting service of this country. 
The second characteristic of the Government's policy has been a laissez-faire approach to commercial broadcasting. It has been so laissez-faire that even the commercial sector of broadcasting has felt completely without any guidance. A publication earlier this year entitled 'BroadcastingA Potential Disaster Area' took it upon itself to attack the Minister and the present Government's policy. That publication was put out by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. Of course, it was right in choosing that title. Under this Government broadcasting has been a disaster area. This legislation is the final capping of that disastrous situation. 
The third characteristic of the Government's policy has been its utter failure in two years to do anything about the development of public broadcasting in Australia and to take advantage of the new technologies in broadcasting which are available and used in most countries but which are available only and not used to the extent they might be in Australia. The history of the administration of broadcasting by the present Government has been marked by inquiries, a lot of talk and no constructive action. I remind the Senate of some of the inquiries which have been conducted. In September 1976 after a hastily commissioned inquiry into broadcasting in Australia the Green report was published. It was titled 'Australian BroadcastingA Report on the Structure of the Australian Broadcasting System and Associated Matters'. The recommendations of that inquiry- it was commissioned by the Government and conducted by the Department of Postal and Telecommunications; it was not a public inquiryhave not been followed by the Government. In commenting on that report and the legislation introduced relating to broadcasting in December 1 976, the  A Australian Financial Review  said this: 
The net result of Cabinet's actual decisions is that the proposed Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which is to replace the existing Australian Broadcasting Control Board, is looking increasingly like its predecessor. 
Referring to the report recommending a broadcasting council, it goes on to say: 
Therefore, the report recommended that a Broadcasting Council be established to overview the administration of programs and advertising standards. 
But the government has decided that the council is to enjoy a brief which is vague and expects no real power. 
The report went on in that vein to criticise the legislation introduced in December 1976 following the report of the Department on Australian broadcasting. In December 1976 the Government introduced its first significant broadcasting legislation. That was legislation to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act. It had two main objectives. The first was to get rid of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, particularly certain personnel employed in it who were appointed by the Labor Government. The second objective was to get rid of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board but more particularly to get rid of two members of it who were appointed by the Labor Government. The second half of that legislative endeavour succeeded. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board was disbanded. Anybody who knows anything about broadcasting in Australia knows that that was a totally futile exercise. Two years later, the sort of structure which the Government is now envisaging for broadcasting is a sort of Australian Broadcasting Control Board manque structure. For the benefit of  Senator Webster  'manque' is a well known international word meaning lacking'. 
-I thought the honourable senator might want to use it in a scientific context at a later stage. In a sense the wheel has come full circle in relation to the structural aspect of broadcasting. The attempt to get rid of the Australian Broadcasting Commission personnel failed because of public concern and outcry about the provisions of the 1976 legislation. The Control Board on the other hand was disbanded. The legislation of December 1976 did very little else except to carry with it a promise of further legislation to be introduced in March 1977. The legislation which is now before the Parliament in November 1977 is presumably that which was to be introduced in March this year which we were promised in December last year. The legislation in December 1976 proposed that the structure of broadcasting should consist of two main bodies, the Broadcasting Tribunal which has been established and a body called the Broadcasting Council which would be representative of various sections of the broadcasting industry and, unhappily, not representative of the public. 
The Broadcasting Council which was envisaged in the 1976 legislation has never come into operation; it has never been appointed. That council, which was set up by the Fraser Government has not come into operation because the Government is susceptible to pressures from the commercial sector of broadcasting, and that sector has declined to serve on it. By declining to serve, that is, by black banning the Broadcasting Council- a most reprehensible conduct if attempted by trade unions but apparently quiet all right if attempted by the commercial broadcasting sector- they have rendered it incapable of operation. So the 1976 Broadcasting Council is still in limbo and we have heard nothing more about it. 
The next chapter in the history of the development of the Government's broadcasting policy occurred early in 1977 with the appointment of the Broadcasting Tribunal, which was in itself an interesting exercise. At the dinner a few months ago of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations one of the great jokes told by the compere was that he wanted to congratulate the commercial television industry upon devising a job retirement scheme ibr executives of commercial television stations. 'It is called the Broadcasting Tribunal', he said. This was greeted with great laughter and was no doubt very funny if one happened to be a member of the commercial broadcasting industry, but if one happened to belong to the 65 per cent of Australians who, in surveys, show up as being concerned about the standards of commercial television in Australia it was perhaps not so funny after all. That Tribunal, which was appointed in 1977, included among its number  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, a former aide of Kerry Packer of Consolidated Press. Two other appointments have subsequently been made and a fourth, quite recently, interestingly enough has a background associated with the Channel 9 network. 
Enough said of that particular aspect of the Broadcasting Tribunal's activity. The Tribunal then proceeded, as it had been instructed to do by the Minister, to conduct an inquiry into selfregulation for commercial broadcasters. That inquiry produced a report which was tabled in the Senate nearly three months ago, and upon which no action has really been taken by the Government. That is the second major report on broadcasting about which nothing has been done. 
I refer to these inquiries because the concern is, of course, that there has never been more talk in government circles, and less constructive action in the form of legislation, than there has about broadcasting. In the case of both the Green Report on Australian Broadcasting and the Broadcasting Tribunal Report the Minister instructed that they be prepared quickly, and they were. The Green Committee was given three months to write a report on the future structure of Australian broadcasting. In Great Britain, where there is a simpler broadcasting structure, Lord Annand 's committee, set up for the same purpose, was given three years in which to complete it. Our report was completed in three months. It was a creditable effort, in view of the time given to prepare it, but nothing has happened. The same sort of thing occurred with the Broadcasting Tribunal's report, but continually the Minister keeps speaking about the need for public involvement in the formulation of broadcasting policies and the need, as he puts it, to take broadcasting out of politics. 
Those two claims are repeated again and again. They are classic examples of the great hypocrisy and lying that is represented by this legislation. That goes right to the point of the amendment being moved by the Opposition. If there has ever been in the history of this country legislation which puts politics right into broadcasting and does nothing significant to involve the public in the formulation of broadcasting policy it is this Bill. 
It is important that Government senators understand this because it will be a significant issue in the forthcoming election. This legislation will then be wrapped right around their necks, because there is a great deal of community concern about the two aspects I have mentioned and much public discussion, despite the fact that it has been rushed into the Parliament in the dying days of the session when there is limited time available so that there cannot be sound and lengthy political discussion of it. 
To illustrate the point I make about the way in which what the Minister has repeatedly said is in contradistinction to his present actions- his forktongued approach to politics- let me quote what he said in the House of Representatives on 6 December 1976 when the last amendment was before that House. I cite the Minister's remarks at page 3329  of Hansard,  as follows: 
The whole thrust of this legislation is to take politics out of broadcasting. The Minister will no longer have the right to decide as to who gets licences. 
We will come back to that when we discuss the details of this Bill. The Minister said further: 
The finding of the Tribunal will be the determining factor. 
Talking later about the Tribunal he added: 
The grant of these powers to a separate independent statutory authority will substantially reduce the possibility of political involvement in the licensing process. 
Let us come back to the Bill and discuss that statement of intent. On 10 November 1976 the Minister said at page 2529  of Hansard,  in speaking of the structure of the broadcasting system: 
Let me stress this point because it is the basic distinction made by the report - 
The reference there, of course, is to the Green report:   a basic distinction which members of the Opposition persistently ignore despite the clear injunction of the report. The Government is and should be involved in shaping the structure of the system. 
That is a notion with which, of course, the Opposition agrees. The Minister continues: 
It is not and it should not be involved in dictating the content of programs. 
Let us return to that statement in the context of this legislation. The Minister added: 
We are reducing political influence in broadcasting. We are replacing it with public and industry participation. Statements to the contrary are nonsense. 
That, of course, is true in one sense. This legislation is nonsense because it is quite contrary to all the high-sounding things the Minister said in the course of those speeches in 1976. He said further: 
In conclusion may I state that this proposed restructuring will substantially reduce the opportunity for political pressures on broadcasting operations. It will be more economic, efficient and in keeping with today's conditions and foreseeable future developments. 
That is the 'Minister for Propaganda', as he has sometimes been called, talking in 1976 about his intentions on behalf of the Fraser Government in relation to the broadcasting structure. If one reads the amendment to be proposed by the Opposition one will get some idea of why the Opposition objects to the total lack of fulfilment of those stated intentions, and to the introduction of legislation which is quite contrary to everything that the Minister was then saying. 
Let me now deal with the two points, which were of great concern to the Minister in December 1 976. The first concerns involving the public in the discussion of broadcasting policy. In pursuit of that undertaking he extended the time for comments on the two reports relating to broadcasting to which I have referred. But if this legislation is passed, as it will be, the public will have no genuine opportunity for involvement in the formulation of broadcasting policy. One might be able to mention this matter in the context of the debate in the Committee stage. 
There are sections of this Bill which provide that persons interested- there is no definition of the expression 'persons interested'- might appear before the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. But if the persons interested happened to be members of the public they would know before they appeared before the Tribunal that, whatever the Tribunal decided, they would have no right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The only right of appeal given by this legislation to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is given effectively to licensees or the owners of broadcasting stations. So, right from its inception, the Broadcasting Tribunal is going to be placed in the extraordinary position of being a Tribunal which is being asked to judge a set of circumstances and make a decision about them in the sure knowledge that only one side can appeal against its decisions. What an extraordinary situation for a so-called quasi judicial body to be put in by legislation of this Parliament! That is in fact what will happen. So much for the question of public discussion. 
The members of the public of Australia will wake in fright when the full purport of this broadcasting legislation finally gets through to them. It is because of that that we object very strongly to the way in which the legislation is being rushed through the Parliament. The 1976 legislation also was rushed through the Parliament right at the end of a session.  Senator Townley-  who probably has some sort of interest in this matter; I do not seek to identify it at the moment- nods his head. So there have been two occasions on which this sort of legislation has been rushed through the Parliament. We object very strongly to that. 
Let me talk to the three aspects of the amendment which is to be moved by the Opposition. Perhaps I should formally move it now. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted, because: 
it greatly increases the power of the Minister in relation to licensing of broadcasting and television services and is contrary to the stated intention of the government to "take broadcasting out of politics ' '; 
the functions of the proposed Special Broadcasting Service are vague and imprecise and do not provide adequate machinery for the provision of ethnic broadcasting services; and 
there is inadequate provision for public participation and involvement in the process of broadcasting regulation.'. 
Firstly, let me speak to paragraph (a) of the amendment. This legislation provides for a mock transferral of power from the Minister to the Broadcasting Tribunal in respect of the granting and renewal of broadcasting licenses because the power which is being given to the Tribunal by the legislation is, of course, tremendously limited by the powers given to the Minister- for the first time quite explicitly in this regard- to call for applications for broadcasting licences. The Minister is being given exclusive power to call for applications for broadcasting licences. Supposing we had the unlikely circumstance of having a lazy Minister who, firstly, would not call for applications for broadcasting licences. The Australian broadcasting system, which in terms of its present structure rivals that only of the Republic of Ireland, would never be able to develop. The public broadcasting sector would never develop if the Minister did not call for applications for licences. The commercial sector would never develop if the Minister did not call for applications for licences. It is a legislative recipe for not taking action. 
The Minister would be open to all sorts of corruption. He could say to his friends in Blacktown, for example: 'I will let you know that I am going to call for a licence in the Blacktown area. Get ready with your application and put it in as soon as appropriate'. The Minister could do that. It is a recipe for corruption, which is the objectionable feature and which historically has been the objectionable feature of having licensing powers residing in the hands of a politician. Throughout the history of broadcasting in Australia that has been the thing to which people have objected. So, first of all, it represents a mock transferral of power to the Tribunal because the Minister retains the power to call for applications. 
Secondly, this legislation gives the Minister power to revoke or vary the conditions of a broadcasting licence at any time. That is a horrifying power for a Minister to have. Many commercial licensees see it in that way. There is a lot of money involved in broadcasting and if one has a licence for five years and if the Minister has the power to vary the terms of that licence in the middle of that period not only would one be potentially up for a financial loss if that happened but also there would be very disastrous circumstances in terms of the capacity of people who have licences or who are seeking licences to plan ahead in relation to broadcasting policy. That incredible power is now being given to the Minister. All the time we have the present Minister raising an eyebrow and saying: 'We are going to take broadcasting out of politics' or, as he sometimes puts it, 'We are going to take politics out of broadcasting'. We have this absurd charade of repeated statements of that kind and at the same time he is granting himself, by this legislation, these quite enormous powers in relation to the broadcasting structure. It does not take broadcasting out of politics; it puts broadcasting right into politics. That is an area of concern to not only the public and community broadcasters in Australia but also the commercial broadcasting sector, which is absolutely appalled by this aspect of the legislation. 
Why is it thought by the Minister that broadcasting should be taken out of politics? It is thought that broadcasting should be taken out of politics because the licensing procedures in this country for broadcasting and television stations have been dirty words over many years. It goes back to 1963, I think, when another statutory body- the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- awarded a television licence and the Prime Minister of the day took that licence away from the body recommended by the Board and gave it to his friend, Reg Ansett. 
-Yes, it could be done,  Senator Missen.  Since 1963 it has been argued in Australia that politicians should not have this right and that the licensing process should be above all the skulduggery that went on with  Sir Reginald  Ansett. The only proper solution to that sort of situation is to provide a structure for broadcasting which delineates the functions of various bodies, including the Minister, in a quite clear sort of way. The Broadcasting Control Board made an important submission to the Green inquiry into Australian broadcasting along the very lines of the importance of having a quite distinct function for the various parties or bodies concerned. 
That has been important not only in the case of the Ansett licence but also in cases of administration of licences under the present Minister's control- for example, the licence given to Prospect Broadcasters at Parramatta on the recommendation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board before it was abolished. The Minister refused to allow it to have that licence, reversing the decision of the Board. Cynics say that the Minister has been hell-bent to award that licence to a company which is sponsored by Cottee's, the drink manufacturers, and that  Mr Cottee  happens to be a fairly well known donor to and member of the Liberal Party of New South Wales. That is what the cynics say, and I simply note what they say without necessarily agreeing with it. But the political point is that it is being said everywhere. When the Minister, in relation to that particular radio broadcasting licence, writes to the  Chairman  of the Broadcasting Tribunal, a so-called independent statutory body, and asks for the file relating to that matter and when the  Chairman  of the statutory body asks for the file back and is told that the file is lost, all the comments that the cynics make about the licence being taken away from the people the Broadcasting Control Board recommended and given to a great and powerful friend of the Liberal Party in New South Wales begin to take on a peculiar air. That is a situation which is of concern and which this legislation does nothing to rectify because the Minister will still have those powers. 
Then there was the unfortunate business, about which cynics also talk, of the licence promised to Melbourne University for a public broadcasting station, granted on what New South Wales cynics refer to as the basis of the Guilfoyle connection. It was thought that because  Senator Guilfoyle  's daughter happened to have some relationship with one of the sponsors of that station the licence was promised by the Minister in Melbourne to the Melbourne University when a whole lot of other applicants for licences who were ahead of Melbourne University received no such favourable consideration. Some people who do not understand the way politics works in this country say: 'What an extraordinary set of circumstances that it should all hap- pen like that. Isn't that interesting?' We wonder h ere, as we talk about it in the Senate or the House of Representatives, why Parliament and politicians are not held in the highest respect in the community when that sort of thing is going on. 
This legislation does nothing to cure any of that because the Minister will still have the power to engage in that sort of skulduggery, whether he be a Liberal Minister or a Labor Minister. If he is a Labor Minister, we say that it is a bad thing, and we say that in the case of a Liberal Minister it is also a bad thing, because the rules must apply equally. It is for that reason that the Opposition is very concerned about the increased licensing powers given to the Minister, the abuse of which has been discussed in the Press and is the common parlance of people concerned with broadcasting in this country. It is a matter of great concern in relation to a Minister who, rumour has it, has aspirations to be Treasurer of this country. I do not know whether it is a threat or a promise that is being offered. I suppose that if it gets rid of the present Treasurer it is a promise, but it may be a threat if the Minister who has administered broadcasting and television in the way that he has is a potential Treasurer of this country. 
We are most concerned with the structural way in which licences are to be granted under the proposed legislation, and in the context of an election on 10 December I say quite frankly that the policy of the Australian Labor Party is one of separating these functions quite distinctly and taking them away from the Minister, as this Minister keeps saying that he intends to do but does not do. Our policy is quite clear; there should be a broadcasting structure in this country in which the licensing function is vested exclusively in a broadcasting tribunal which is a quasi-judicial body. The function of administration and comment on broadcasting matters should be vested in a separate body called the broadcasting advisory council, which will be representative of community groups and the public. That is most essential in the structure of broadcasting because the unfortunate factor here is that the Government has a tiger by the tail. In a recent survey 65 per cent of the people interviewed expressed concern about these things in Australia, and they are becoming more and more concerned. One of the reasons for their concern is that this Government interfered with the existing broadcasting structure for quite blatant political purposes and stirred up a hornet's nest in the process. The sort of problems that the Government is going to have, now and in the future, are on its own head because of the stirring that was done in those euphoric days of early 1976 after it came to power and was going to display to the people h ow a really good government ran the place, or so we used to hear. That is one of the difficulties into which we have got ourselves in the area of licensing. 
The second point in the general amendment moved by the Opposition relates to the Special Broadcasting Service. The provisions of the legislation relating to the Special Broadcasting Service are vague and imprecise, but before I deal with that aspect let me consider the situation of ethnic radio in Australia. Multilingual broadcasting, as it is called in the Bill, or ethnic radio, as it is sometimes called, apparently is to be the first and prime function of the Special Broadcasting Service. If one looks at the history of ethnic radio under this Government, again it is a history of failure, prevarication, uncertainty and disruption. Right from the beginning, when the Government came to power, it found that the world had changed since the days of Bill McMahon as Prime Minister. It found that for the first time migrant communities in this country had radio stations of their own and they broadcast in their own language. What a shocking thing to come into government and find people talking at you on the radio in Greek or some other language! What a terrible thing for the old Anglo-Saxon Establishment to find when it came back into government, and something had to be done about it. A lot of attempts were made to grapple with the ethnic radio problem, including the suggestion from Government spokesmen that any foreign language programs should be followed by a translation in English. Those sorts of suggestions were made and attempts were also made to put the whole of ethnic radio in Australia under the wing of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But the Australian Broadcasting Commission was not going to be given adequate money to run ethnic radio and it declined to take on that obligation. After a great deal of to-ing and fro-ing, including getting rid of Station 3ZZ in Melbourne, finally the suggestion came up: We will have a special broadcasting service which will take under its wing multilingual radio services, or ethnic radio. So the first function of this Special Broadcasting Service is to take on ethnic radio in Australia. 
The legislation does not tell us that the Minister has issued guidelines in relation to the way in which ethnic radio is to be carried on. Officers of the Minister's Department currently are interviewing a large number of applicants for what they call policy co-ordination of ethnic radio broadcasts. That might not be quite the right expression, but the Department is interviewing those applicants at the moment and nobody is quite clear what the job is all about. However, what the guidelines say is quite clear. The guidelines are very restrictive in terms of the migrant language radio services and the capacity of those services to deal with political matters. There are two basic restrictions that the Special Broadcasting Service will place on ethnic radio or multilingual radio in Australia. The first is that the Special Broadcasting Service will be subject to government allocation of funds, and those funds can be cut off if the government of the day does not happen to like what the ethnic radio services are doing. One could say that that would not happen in Australia, but let us look at the Australian Broadcasting Commission and what has happened to it under this Government. If that can happen to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, a long-established and wellregarded institution in this country, what might happen to ethnic radio under this Government, which has messed around with ethnic radio for so long? The answer, which is of concern to migrant communities, is that the Government might cut off their funds if it does not like what they do. 
The second aspect of the Special Broadcasting Service in relation to ethnic radio is the political guidelines that have been provided. The worst feature of all that is not the sort of authoritarianism which runs through it all, the desire for neatness at any cost. The worst feature is the totally patrician,, patronising attitude towards migrant communities in Australia. They have been pretty successful. I do not know about the Sydney experience but in Melbourne and Adelaide they certainly have been pretty successful in running very good programs which have been very popular. The ethnic communities have had a great deal of popular success in the way in which they have been able to run their own programs. 
Now, by this legislation, they have been told simply this: 'You are different from the commercial broadcasting sector in Australia. You are different from the Australian Broadcasting Commission' that is according to its so-called independent charter- 'because you will be told what sorts of guidelines you will have and how much money you will have'. The implication is: You are migrant communities. You are not the same as Cottees'- that is the manufacturer of Australian drinks which applied for a radio licence- 'or any of these other people about whom we have known for a long time. You are different'. That is a patronising aspect of this legislation which is of considerable concern. That is not the proper answer to the question of the right way to establish ethnic broadcasting in this country. 
The right way is to grant ethnic communities public or community licences just as Australians we hope will be granted public and community licences. If ethnic broadcasters in Melbourne, Adelaide or Sydney formed themselves into a cooperative and got a public broadcasting licence, the great thing for the ethnic communities, of course, is that they would be free from the financial strictures from then on. They would be free from political or other interference. They would be in exactly the same position as an Australian broadcaster. There should be public broadcasting licences for ethnic communities in each of the major cities. That is an inexpensive and proper way of doing it if ethnic communities are to be treated in the same way as other members of Australian society. We are concerned about that aspect. We do not think the Government has gone about this in the right way in the interests of the Australian community. The Government has gone about this in a ham-fisted political way, contrary to the interests of the ethnic communities and of Australian society as a whole. 
Our second objection to the Special Broadcasting Service is simply this: Its functions, other than the multilingual broadcasting function, are not spelt out in any detail. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications is able to direct the Special Broadcasting Service to make broadcasts as prescribed. That is an expression which I should imagine has not previously appeared in the legislation of a country with pretentions to being a modern democracy. 
-Yes, I understand that. It is special purposes as prescribed. I have left multilingual purposes. Now I am talking about special purposes. I do not know what special purposes are. They will be prescribed by the Minister. I do not know whether  Dr Goebbels  ever introduced legislation like that. I do not think he had that need. But if he did that is precisely the expression he would have used. He would have said: 'The broadcasting service of the Third Reich will broadcast programs as prescribed by me as Minister for Propaganda'. That would be the most objectionable piece of legislation to be brought into an Australian parliament. The situation would be even worse if the legislation were carried by the Parliament. As I said earlier, it is these sorts of things that we will wrap around the necks of Government supporters in the course of an election campaign. These sorts of things are of vital importance and concern to the Australian community. 
The Government does not need to make this provision in this sloppy way. If it wants to introduce a special broadcasting service and if it gave the matter some thought it could spell out the functions of the service. If the Government wants to introduce a special broadcasting service and it does not know what it should do, it does not have to insert a provision stating that the service shall operate for such special purposes as prescribed. It does not have to insert that provision. It should state: 'We know it is two years since we started to think about broadcasting, but we need another two or three years'. That is what the Government says about the economy. Why should it not say that about broadcasting? Perhaps that would be more acceptable to people because they are used to that sort of excuse. But for the Government to put this sort of sloppy language in legislation is appalling. There is really no adequate explanation for that. 
I refer the Senate to the details of the Special Broadcasting Service which are found in the Bill. Perhaps that matter can be discussed in a little more detail at the Committee stage. This form of final solution for broadcasting policy is most undesirable and should be rejected by the Senate. The third point I deal with relates to the matter of public participation in broadcasting policy about which the Minister has been gabbing for the last two years, and about which nothing has happened. The fact of the matter is that Australia has a unique broadcasting structure which will just crumble if it is not understood that the public demands a right to be heard in relation to the formulation of policies and in discussions about the development of the broadcasting system. There is really nothing in this legislation which assists this process. 
When the Government introduced a proposal dealing with the broadcasting council- the Government has not gone on with that because the commercial broadcasting sector put a black ban on the Government- we moved amendments which would have provided that the broadcasting council should represent not only the industry but also other bodies in the community concerned with broadcasting standards. For example, included among our suggestions were bodies like the Australia Council, the Schools Commission and people who properly ought to be concerned in a constructive way about the contents of broadcasting programs. That amendment was rejected. The broadcasting council has never been appointed. Now the Government comes up with legislation which does nothing in terms of public involvement. 
If we look at the clauses in the Bill which deal with inquiries which are to be conducted by the Broadcasting Tribunal we will find there is provision for a person interested to appear before the Tribunal in relation to the granting or renewal of a licence. But who is a person interested? Some of the lawyers on the Government side might like to tell me. I would have thought that a person interested would have to be very careful. If he were just Joe Blow, a listener to radio or television programs, I think that if he trotted up to the Tribunal he would not necessarily be thought of as a person interested. Kerry Packer would be a person interested, whether it was before the Broadcasting Tribunal or the Cricket Control Board. There are all sorts of figures like this who undoubtedly would be interested. But what about an ordinary member of the public? The sorts of standards for which one would hope were laid down in the Green report on Australian broadcasting which was made to the Government. Paragraph 216 states: 
It would also seem to be desirable that the licensing authority should err on the side of generosity in granting access to its proceedings. While frivolous or irrelevant submissions should be disallowed, there is a very real area of public concern involved whenever the control of such socially important commodities as broadcasting licences is to be decided. Again, it would seem to be desirable that participation in such proceedings should not depend upon sponsorship of a competing petition. There will be many instances in which those wishing to make submissions regarding a licence have no consequent desire, or capacity, to themselves apply for a licence. 
That seems to me to be a statement of concern and principle. It is a statement of advice to the Government which it does not take because it does not want to do so. It is not concerned about the interests of the public in broadcasting in any real way. It is not concerned in any sense which is reflected in this legislation. That is a very real problem. We find if we look at the detailed provisions in the Bill that if a member of the public lucky enough to be a person interested, within the terms of this legislation, if he appears before the Broadcasting Tribunal in relation to the granting or renewal of a licence and if the Tribunal hears what he has to say as a member of the public, with Kerry Packer or one of those financial lightweights on the other side in the application, the member of the public is heard in the sure knowledge that only Kerry Packer can appeal. A member of the public cannot appeal. Only the owner of the licence can appeal. What an extraordinary provision for a quasi judicial body like the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, as it has been described, to be confronted with. It is extraordinary that the Tribunal hears a case and makes a quasi judicial assessment knowing that, before it even reaches its decision, one side- the heavy side, the ownership side, the Reg Ansett side, the Kerry Packer side- can appeal but the ordinary member of the public cannot. 
What an extraordinary provision for this Senate as a house of review to pass. What an extraordinary provision for the lawyers sitting on the Government benches to approve of. They will approve of it, of course, because an election is to be held on 10 December. They have to approve of it. There cannot be any bucking here. There can be no crossing the floor as Government supporters did in respect of the apple and pear legislation. 
There can be no crossing of the floor as Government supporters did under 

 Senator Wright on the apple and pear legislation. 
We hear about it now. The backwoods lawyers have woken up now. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Order! I ask the Senate to come back to the Bill and get away from a discussion of apples and pears. 
-I know that apples and pears represent a very sensitive subject. The point I seek to make is that  Senator Wright  with his great concern for all these matters probably has not read the provisions of this Bill. I thought that  Senator Wright,  who made a lot of noise just a moment ago, would have been concerned that the house of review is about to adopt legislation of this kind because an election is to be held on 10 December and he has to be loyal to his Ministeror part time Minister as he is described- for Post and Telecommunications and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who want this legislation passed. The point I make is that not one place in this legislation is there any significant concern for the right of public participation and public involvement in the broadcasting structural process of the kind which the Minister has so frequently talked about. 
They are the three essential matters of concern in relation to this legislation. These three main points are reflected again and again in the detailed provisions of this Bill. It is unfortunate that there is one good provision in this Bill which ought to be passed; otherwise the Government should be invited to take precisely the course which the Opposition recommends in its entirety, namely, to reject this Bill and send it back to be redrafted. It is a most unsatisfactory piece of legislation. It is of concern to the community. I assure the Senate that, in the next three or four weeks, it will be of concern to Government senators as well as members of the Opposition. 
I want to address remarks to clauses 1 to 17 which are consistent with the remarks made by members of the Opposition at the second reading stage of this Bill. These clauses illustrate very graphically the points which the Opposition sought to make in the second reading debate regarding the strictures which this Bill imposes on the broadcasting system and particularly to show where it fails. I refer first to clause 3 which deals with pecuniary interests. The effect of clause 3 is that a person appointed to the Broadcasting Tribunal must divest himself of any pecuniary interests within 14 days of his appointment. The section in the current legislation provides that a person shall not be appointed to the Broadcasting Tribunal if he has a pecuniary interest direct or indirect. 
In bald terms the amendment means that anybody can be appointed to the Broadcasting Tribunal. The appointee does not need to have any degree of independence about him provided that after he is appointed he divests himself of financial interests. Before this amendment was brought forward people could not be appointed to the Broadcasting Tribunal who had financial interests in the broadcasting industry. That is the distinction which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who represents the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in this place, apparently does not understand. The Labor Party is not critical of people who have experience in broadcasting being appointed. It is critical of people who have financial interests in commercial broadcasting stations being appointed to statutory bodies. 
If it is not obvious to the honourable senator I really have not the time to enlighten him now. The point is, for example, that when the present  Chairman  of the Tribunal was appointed the objection to his appointment was not that he had experience in broadcasting but that he had a direct pecuniary interest in the broadcasting industry. He did, of course, divest himself, one is lead to believe, of bis pecuniary interests afterwards. He would be accommodated by the amendments in this legislation. 
Why in a system of broadcasting such as we have in Australia should people be appointed to statutory bodies who have financial interests in the outcome of their decisions? That is a point of very grave concern. Let me illustrate it in one simple way. Under the proposed new section  Mr Kerry  Packer, as an example, could be appointed to the Broadcasting Tribunal. Because of his financial interests it would not be an appointment which had public confidence. I am saying nothing against  Mr Packer.  He could subsequently discharge his financial interests, divest himself of them by handing them over to his cousin, and everything would be all right under this proposed section. That is quite objectionable to the Opposition. I refer the Committee to the Opposition's policy in relation to these matters, which specifically states that appointments to statutory broadcasting bodies should be made only after the approval of a joint committee of the Parliament. That is the way it should be done. Both parties should follow that policy in relation to appointments to broadcasting tribunals, because that is the only way we will get what the public seeks in Australia, which is genuinely independent bodies dealing with these matters. 
Clause 4 contains a provision that is related to that contained in clause 3, and I do not need to deal with it in detail. Clause 5 provides that the Broadcasting Tribunal may be constituted in divisions for the purpose of an inquiry, but not in relation to certain matters. Under the existing provisions the Tribunal may be constituted for specific purposes and may make a report and recommendations. Under the proposed amendments, effectively it will not be able to do this; that is, members of the Tribunal can be seconded to an inquiry, and they then effectively have to have what is called a meeting of the Tribunal when the majority opinion prevails, including the casting vote of the  Chairman.  The effect of that is that members who conduct an inquiry do not decide the matter any more. Why is that? It is because the Government, when it made appointments to the Tribunal, expected that it would have a totally supine body on its hands; but it found with the inquiry into self-regulation for commercial broadcasters that it did not, and the  Chairman  had to put in a minority report. This provision is a legislative device to fix up that sort of situation, to provide that any members of the Tribunal who constitute a division of the Tribunal are subject to the overriding numbers of the Tribunal assembled in a meeting of the Tribunal. It is a neat legislative device. It is not in accordance with the principles with which broadcasting legislation and decisions in Australia ought to be made. 
Clause 6 deals with the functions of the Tribunal. It puts the formal licensing power in the Tribunal's hands as distinct from those of the Minister. It gives the Tribunal the powers it had under the old section 16 of the Act and it clarifies some very doubtful legal relationships between sections 16 and 18 of the present broadcasting legislation. I make that comment because it is relevant to other comments we will make about other clauses of the Bill. Clause 8 deals with public inquiries. It refers to certain documents which the Tribunal might decide should be confidential. It would be nice to have in the clause a definition of what sort of documents the Governments thinks should be confidential. When one considers proposed section 106B to which  Senator Missen  referred and considers this legislation in the light of the much vaunted freedom of information legislation which we keep hearing about, one thinks that it is a nice and interesting question what sort of documents would be confidential. 
Honourable senators might ask themselves: What documents about the Australian broadcasting industry should be secret? What documents should be kept from the public? What should the public in Australia not know? Why should things be hidden from the public in an industry which uses public airwaves and which is responsive, or ought to be responsive, to public criticism, comment and participation? One would like to hear from the Minister what sort of documents will be regarded as secret under this legislation. Clause 9 deals with evidence before the Tribunal and the power of the Tribunal to summon witnesses. It is a matter for comment that the Tribunal is given quite draconian powers in terms of penalties for witnesses who fail to attend. We make that observation in passing because we think that this provision is consistent with the rather authoritarian nature of this legislation. 
Clause 10 is quite a crucial clause in this legislation. As I said in the second reading debate, the Minister keeps talking about the importance of the public being involved. This clause provides the one opportunity of involving the public in proceedings before the Tribunal. Clause 10 in the amending Bill provides quite specifically that one can appear before the Tribunal only if one is a person with 'an interest'. The lawyers on the Government side of the chamber might disagree with me but I would have thought that the term person with an interest' would have been interpreted as meaning a person essentially with a pecuniary interest- something he wants to protect, a proprietary interest in the broadcasting system. 
It may be that a member of the public is concerned about broadcasting.  Senator Jessop,  for example, may be concerned about the standard of broadcasting programs. He may belong to that 70 per cent or so of the Australian community who are concerned. So he may go along to the Broadcasting Tribunal and say: 'Look, I am a person interested. I want to appear before the Tribunal'. I point out that I did not say that he was not an interesting person; I said 'a person interested'. He may say to the Tribunal: 'I want to appear before the Broadcasting Tribunal and put my point of view'. The Tribunal may say: We are sorry,  Senator Jessop.  You are not a person with an interest. You do not have a broadcasting licence and you do not have shares in a broadcasting company. You cannot appear here. Go away. If you do not like it you can switch off'. 
-I do not think so, as a matter of interpretation. That is a matter of concern because we are dealing with legislation. I would like to think that the honourable senator would be concerned about community interest. It is very important that community interest be represented before the Tribunal. It is of no use  Mr Robinson  saying in answer to interjections in the House of Representatives that he thinks that would mean anybody who was interested could appear. That is not an interpretation of the legislation that is just another opinion off the top of his head. 
-He did not even go that far. I thank  Senator Missen.  The provisions of clause 10 are of great concern to the Opposition. We are very concerned that in the broadcasting structure of Australia, community groups, the public interest, be represented m discussions about all sorts of matters varying from program standards to the question of whether people are entitled to have licences renewed and so on. Clause 10 is most unsatisfactory. It can be used to exclude the public interest. It puts the matter firmly in the hands of the existing broadcasting proprietors club and it is most undesirable from the point of view of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
Clause 12 relates to publication of the decisions of the Tribunal. Clause 12 is inadequate in that it does not provide for the decisions of the Tribunal to be made public. It provides only for them to be served on the persons involved in the proceedings. The decision of the Tribunal should also be made available to the public. Its decisions are sufficiently important in the view of the Opposition for them to be tabled in the Parliament. The Opposition thinks that the legislation is inadequate in relation to both these matters. It opposes that provision because of its sheer inadequacy. 
I am referring to clause 12, relating to the publication of the decisions of the Tribunal. That is the view of the Opposition. At the moment the decisions are required to be served on the parties to the proceedings before the Tribunal. 
Clause 15 is objectionable from the point of view of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It requires the ABC to have regard to the services provided by the Special Broadcasting Service established by clause 18 and subsequent clauses. Theoretically, the matter can be ut this high: If the Minister who is in charge of a Special Broadcasting Service prescribes m the exercise of the very wide powers he is given that the Special Broadcasting Service shall provide current affairs and news programs- he is not answerable to the Parliament immediately and not answerable to the public in any way- the Australian Broadcasting Commission must have regard to that decision. I suppose that if that section has meaning at all, it could be taken as high as saying that the Australian Broadcasting Commission might say: 'Perhaps we should not be in this area because it is now a Special Broadcasting Service area'. 
-I may be putting it too high, but the point is important in regard to the cart before the horse attitude of the legislation. Surely what should happen is that the Special Broadcasting Service should have regard to the current program policies of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Clause 16 provides that the ABC shall provide its own studios and so on. The effective result of this and the surrounding clauses is that the Minister now has control over the siting and arrangements for studios and for transmitters. A double power now exists in the Minister. It is not a matter on which a Minister of any government necessarily has expertise. It is a matter on which the Australian Broadcasting Commission or commercial licensees have the expertise. This is another example of powers being very firmly in the Minister's hands. 
-This clause establishes the so-called Special Broadcasting Service and is opposed by the Opposition. We do not oppose it because it is a bad idea to set up a new statutory broadcasting corporation to be called the Special Broadcasting Service. That is not, in itself, a bad idea. But of course the functions of this Special Broadcasting Service are not clearly spelt out. It is totally the wrong way of going about things. The matter has not been thought out properly and it should not have been rushed into the Parliament at this stage. The primary function of the SBS, as set out in the clauses of the Bill, is to provide for ethnic broadcasting. When I say 'primary', that is its initial task; that is what it will do first. It will provide for multilingual broadcasting in Australia. 
We oppose it first of all on the grounds that it is not the proper way in which to deal with multilingual or ethnic broadcasting. It is no good the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  saying, as he did in reply to the second reading, that the Labor Government did not do much better in 1973. 1 thought that the Senate would have been concerned about 1977 and beyond. It is really not a very good answer to take the lowest common denominator of political debate all the time as if we were a couple of football teams here, instead of people who were trying to get good legislation for the benefit of the Australian public. I would have thought that that is what we ought to be about. If we are about that, the important point to consider is what is the best way first of all to handle multilingual or ethnic broadcasting. 
The Opposition suggests quite clearly that the proper way to handle ethnic or multilingual broadcasting is to treat them exactly the same way as Australian broadcasters are treated. That is to say, they should be subject to the law relating to broadcasting guidelines, defamation and so on. They should be precisely free to do their own thing. But of course the Minister who will administer the Special Broadcasting Service is laying down guidelines for ethnic broadcasting in which he makes it quite clear that ethnic broadcasters cannot do their own thing. Those guidelines are not part of this legislation. They are a scruffy little document which is being circulated at the moment in broadcasting circles and turns up as a result of a leak in newspapers and so on. They are not open matters. They are matters which are behind the scene but which are quite fundamental to the future of ethnic broadcasting in Australia. They should be out in the open. We say that ethnic broadcasters should not be subject to these sorts of guidelines. 
The other thing to which they should not be subject is the possibility of financial strictures being imposed by a government of either political persuasion. A government should not be able to say: 'Well, look, we finance the Special Broadcasting Service. We do not like what ethnic communities are doing with their broadcasting programs. Therefore we will cut the money or. Of course, that can happen. It has happened in recent years with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is just the wrong way to go about it in terms of ethnic communities, which are rightly concerned that they are being treated in this patrician manner, differently from Australian broadcasters. They are being told that because they are New Australians, if I may use that expression, the rules for them are different. That is a wrong approach if we are to have the sort of cohesive society in which terms like multiracial, ethnic and multilingual are meaningful in developing a rich and proper community. 
The second main criticism of the Special Broadcasting Service proposal is that the functions of the Service are not properly spelt out; they are to be defined by regulation; they are to be alternatively as prescribed. In essence, it is not too much to say that the Special Broadcasting 
Service would be a new State-run service without any of the so-called independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, indeed totally subject to ministerial control. That is a very bad thing in the context of a country with democratic pretentions such as ours and we very much regret that the Government - 
-I did not say that, with respect. I think perhaps you were talking to  Senator Missen  and did not hear what I said. I said that it would be subject to ministerial control and direction. That is quite clear from the clause dealing with the functions of the Special Broadcasting Service and is, I would have thought, a bad thing in a country with our democratic pretensions. One wonders whether the Government has thought about this. If it has, the clause is totally insidious. If it has not, it should not be presenting this legislation to the Parliament. One or the other must apply. It is a bad and iniquitous provision. 
There are one or two other points about the proposed Special Broadcasting Service that one could make, but the essential point is that we are to have in Australia for the first time a ministerially run broadcasting service- as  Senator Robertson  called it today, the Minister's private broadcasting station. That is not putting it too graphically. 
Clause 1 8 deals also in part IIIB with the question of licences. Section 81 empowers the Tribunal to grant or renew licences. That is a welcome provision. The Tribunal should be able to grant or renew licences, but that provision is absolutely meaningless in the context of other provisions in Part IIIB proposed section 82 empowers the Minister to call for applications for licences. This is perhaps the most pernicious clause in the Bill- pernicious in the context, of course, of the much-vaunted changes that the Government says it is making, such as taking politics out of broadcasting- all these things that, according to numerous statements on record by the Minister in the other place and by the Minister who represents him in the Senate, were going to happen. 
What we have before us is the exact obverse, because its effect is that the Minister may decide where he will call for a licence. He does not have to do anything, but if he does it is subject to the same sort of corruption that has occurred in the past in regard to the issuance of broadcasting licences. I am talking not about financial corruption but about corruption of the processes of government, the sort of corruption that brings parliaments and politicians into disrepute in the community. That ought to be of concern to honourable senators, whatever their political persuasion. Those kinds of practices can all continue under this provision. 
It means, effectively, that no new licences can be issued unless the Minister calls for applications. It means that the Minister can choose the area in respect of which he calls for an application, and the proposed section also makes it quite clear that the Minister will determine the specifications for the licence. The effect is almost total control of the licensing process in a very genuine way for the Minister and token control for the Broadcasting Tribunal. It is another case of forked tongue legislation and of a doublepronged approach to this sort of thing. It is a most extraordinary and either ill-thought out or dangerous and pernicious legislation. One or the other applies. There can be no third course in relation to these provisions. 
Proposed section 83 provides the methods by which the Tribunal will consider licence applications. In sub-section 4 of that proposed section there is a quite inadequate method of public accountability of the Tribunal in relation to its decisions. It should report to the Parliament about these matters. It should publish its decisions in a way that makes them quite apparent to all members of the public. Proposed section 84 again gives the Minister the right to interfere with the specifications of a broadcasting licence after it has been granted by the Tribunal. One can go through all the hassle of getting a licence from the Broadcasting Tribunal and it can be an empty exercise because if the Minister does not like one he can then come along and say: 'We are changing the specifications of your licence. Bad luck, chum'. One would be back to where one started from, presumably, if one has invested capital and so on in the exercise of setting up a broadcasting station. 
Proposed section 85 is also consistent with that. It empowers the Minister to vary or revoke a licence during its currency. If one is a commercial broadcaster- the commercial broadcasting sector is very concerned about the provisions of this proposed section- one can get a licence and invest a great sum of money in it and during its currency the Minister may vary or revoke the conditions of that licence. There are no guidelines under which the Tribunal or the Minister may vary the conditions of a licence. There are no guidelines for the exercising of the Minister's power and no reason is given as to why the Minister should have it at all. It provides a direct and overt opportunity for political interference in the licensing process, it undermines the independence of the Broadcasting Tribunal and it is an unpopular proposal with all sections of the broadcasting industry- commercial, public and national. It is another example of the total confusion that the Minister seems to have about laying down planning guidelines for broadcasting and meddling in the broadcasting process from day to day, which will undoubtedly go on. This legislation is subject to the sort of political abuse and to the situation which, as I have said, brings members of this Parliament and politicians into disrepute because it is always open to the allegation that the Minister is crook, that some people in the Government are crook or that some people in the Opposition are crook because of the way in which a particular licence was granted. That is a bad thing for the Parliament, a bad thing for the broadcasting system and a bad thing for the country. We oppose that provision as well. 
Proposed section 86 provides in sub-section 4 for notification of renewal applications to interested persons'. Again it comes back to this question Who are interested persons? That is a debate that we have had already, and I do not want to go into it any further. We have very grave doubts about that provision. There is also some provision there regarding the revocation of licences that seems to us to be vague. Proposed section 89a deals with the transfer of licences, which is a very big matter if one is transferring the licence of Channel 9 to somebody else, to take a hypothetical case. Proposed section 89a requires the Tribunal's consent to this procedure. It should not be a matter which goes on behind closed doors; it should be a matter of which the public of Australia has the opportunity to be fully aware. There should be public advertising of any application for the transfer of a licence. 
Proposed section 89b also deals with limitations on the transfer of licences and is not in itself objectionable. Clause 23, which is another provision about which I should comment, provides for the assembly of material related to the finances and ownership of the broadcasting industry by the Broadcasting Tribunal. In itself, proposed section 106 A in particular is unobjectionable. But one does not nave any guarantee or guidelines about how that task will be carried out. One only has to look at the practices of this Government when licences have been renewed. Contrary to the control and ownership provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act, it said that people such as  Sir Norman  Young, a friend of  Mr Rupert  Murdoch and a director of one of his companies, could belong to three broadcasting companies. When licences are renewed in those circumstances it is most important that the assembly of material relating to finance and ownership in the broadcasting industry be well collated and available to the public. That will not necessarily happen under the provisions of this legislation, which perhaps is something that the Government wants in view of its conduct in renewing licences in the past year or so. 
Proposed section 106b makes one wonder why we have a Crimes Act at all. It is a draconian method of preventing non-disclosure of information by members of the Broadcasting Tribunal staff and by members of the Tribunal itself. Much of the material relating to broadcasting that comes into the possession of the Tribunal should be public information. Broadcasting is a public concern, it uses public air ways, and the suggestion that disclosure of information should be subject to the sort of penalty set out in proposed section 106B is an extraordinary provision in the light of a Parliament which beefs about freedom of information legislation and which already has a Crimes Act on its statutes. The Opposition objects very strongly to that provision of the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask it particularly as he is concerned about today's and tomorrow's problems rather than yesterday's. I refer to the answer given by the Treasurer yesterday in answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition relating to land transactions. The Treasurer indicated that any land transactions with which he was associated were conducted by a family trust company and not by him. I also refer to the revelation of shareholdings by the Premier of Queensland in companies involved in the contractual relations with the Queensland Government. Will the Government immediately implement the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament to the effect that there should be full and frank public disclosure of financial interests of members of parliament in order that the public may be satisfied that this Parliament is beyond reproach? 
-The Opposition does not support the amendments which have been moved by  Senator Townley.  We do not support the second amendment, for the reasons which have been advanced by  Senator Missen.  It seems to us to be window dressing. The first amendment to us does not seem to add anything in the context of the Bill. The comments made by  Senator Missen  with regard to proposed. new section 79E sub-section (2) are equally applicable to proposed new section 79d (b). In the overall context of this legislation the reference to principles being prescribed or purposes being prescribed falls into the same category. I draw the honourable senator's attention to that fact. 
-The provisions of clause 23 should be singled out for concern. In referring to these provisions in particular, I am not saying that the Opposition approves of the provisions of the other clauses with which we are dealing in this bracket. We find proposed section 106b particularly objectionable. This deals with the secrecy provisions applicable to members and staff of the Broadcasting Tribunal. The comments we make about it relate in a sense to the comments made in relation to earlier portions of the legislation. The question was asked: What documents should be kept secret from the Australian public in relation to the broadcasting industry? The Minister, of course, gave some answer when he referred to contracts between employer and employee and things of that kind with which we would not disagree. 
The point about section 106b is that it refers to the whole question of the assembly of information to the finances and ownership of the broadcasting industry. As was pointed out yesterday in the course of debate on the question of finance and ownership of the Australian broadcasting industry, the Government's record on this matter is not a good one. It involves the issue of licences contrary to the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act; it involves files which suddenly become lost. That sort of administration has characterised the last two years. It is quite extraordinary that this type of provision, which provides for the assembly of information, is inserted and is then qualified by the provisions of proposed section 106b which imposes very severe penalties on those members of the Broadcasting Tribunal and its staff who divulge any of that information. In our view the vast majority of that information should be public material. We do not know why there are penalties in this legislation for the non-disclosure of information which is not appropriately public material when there is the Crimes Act. Why is the broadcasting legislation singled out for special provisions of this kind which deal with the non-disclosure of information? 
We welcome the principle that the Tribunal should assemble material just as the old Australian Broadcasting Control Board assembled material, although not as much as the public would have liked. We remind the Government that public standards regarding freedom of information and accessibility to information have changed in Western democracies and are changing in Australia. It is extraordinary that this legislation is introduced despite those changes which are and ought to be properly taking place. 
-There are a number of proposed new sections in this part of the Bill on which the Opposition would normally have liked to comment. They would have been matters of comment though, rather than indicating particular opposition. However, I wish to indicate quite specifically opposition to clause 28 of the Bill which is the provision dealing with review of decisions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I really find that this section is one which makes a mockery of the socalled nature of the Broadcasting Tribunal as a quasi-judicial body. 
In this country in the past couple of years there has been a lot of talk about the nature of the broadcasting structure. There has been a lot of talk by the Minister about divorcing the granting of licences and the renewal of licences from the process of government and of taking those questions out of the hands of politicians and putting them into the hands of a quasi-judicial body which would deal with them, one would hope, in a quasi-judicial way. 
How does this proposed new section 1 19a operate in regard to the deliberation of that quasi- judicial body which will deal with important matters in Australian broadcasting, important matters relating to the granting and renewal of licences and so on? How it operates effectively is this: It says to the Broadcasting Tribunal: 'When you are weighing the facts, when you are balancing the information before you and trying to reach a decision about who should get a licence to broadcast or about who should have a licence to broadcast renewed, you do so in the knowledge that only one side can effectively appeal'. So if there are two sides before this quasi-judicial body, the Tribunal has to decide what should be the justice of the situation in regard to those opposing sides- one representing a proprietary interest and the other, one would think, representing a public interest. The Tribunal is told by its own legislation that the side which represents the proprietary interest- the Reg Ansetts, the Kerry Packers of this world- will have the right to appeal. But the other side which one hopes, if this legislation is interpreted generously, may represent the public interest effectively has no right to appeal on these important matters. It is an extraordinary provision for any Government senator who claims to be a lawyer to approve in this House of review. It is an extraordinary provision to go into any legislation which is passed by the Senate because of the consequence of it all. There can be all sorts of glib explanations for it in terms of particular subparagraphs of the proposed new section. But the fact that remains is simply this: It hangs as a sword of Damocles over the head of the Broadcasting Tribunal as to who can appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
It should be borne in mind that in any adversary situation in the legal sense before the Broadcasting Tribunal, the parties do not come equally to the Broadcasting Tribunal in terms of power. There are no provisions in this legislation to assist members of the public in a financial sense who want to take proceedings or participate in proceedings before the Tribunal in regard to these very important matters. The financial power is all on one side, the side of the licensee who, in renewal proceedings, again is granted that additional right to appeal. It is totally unsatisfactory for the Minister or Government senators, as they probably will do, to get up and say, You must understand that this broadcasting legislation is just part of the whole scheme of things the whole grand design that we have for Australian broadcasting.' It is quite clear that there is no grand design; there is, in fact, a grand mess. 
If this legislation is passed we will of course be promised something else in 1984 or some such time, if the Government is returned to power, which will patch up the mess that is made today, but that is not satisfactory. After all, in 1976 we were told that broadcasting legislation to fix the whole thing up would be introduced in March 1977. We are now in November 1977, dealing with but a little bit of that legislation that was promised for March 1977, so it it completely unsatisfactory for the Senate to be fobbed off, in regard to its proper function of considering legislation, by the suggestion that in years to come these things will all be fixed up by a more benign, intelligent and interested government than, apparently, the one we have at the moment. 
I rise to direct attention briefly to the large number of matters which are included in Schedule 1 under the heading 'Minor and Consequential Amendments'. That is again, in my view, bad drafting, bad construction. A great many of the matters there included are neither minor nor totally consequential. Without going through them in detail I would, in view of the limited time available, merely direct the attention of the Senate to that fact. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on notice, on 1 8 October 1977: 
1 ) In view of the Minister's repeated statements in favour of public participation in broadcasting planning, will the Minister release the draft guidelines referred to in the Melbourne  Age  on Saturday, 8 October 1977, relating to public broadcasting. 
Will the Minister also release draft guidelines for the development of commercial broadcasting. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 3 November 1977: 
By what body, for what purpose, and at what price were premises and 300 Cotham Road, Kew, acquired with assistance for the Australian Government. 
For what period each week are the premises currently being used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government decided to spend approximately $2m to upgrade television facilities in the Prime Minister's electorate of Wannon. 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Control Board list 20 areas which it regarded as being of high priority for the upgrading of television reception. 
3) Was the area of Wannon one such area. 
Has the Department been given instructions that the matter is to be proceeded with as a matter of priority; if so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government decided to upgrade television facilities in the Minister for Transport's electorate of Gippsland; if so, what will be the likely cost. 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Control Board list 20 areas which it regarded as being a high priority for the upgrading of television reception. 
Was the area in Gippsland one such area. 
Has the Department been given instructions that the matter is to be proceeded with as a matter of priority; if so, why. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Prime Minister to the Government's decision of July 1976 to abolish the post of Australian ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation, based on the Bland Committee recommendation that the cost did not justify its continued existence. I ask: In view of the Government's continued commitment to cut costs, what special or new circumstances arose which led the Government to re-establish this post? When did those circumstances arise? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I enjoyed  Senator Collard  's speech. I particularly enjoyed his references to American history which may have some relevance to us. There was certainly some wisdom in them in the way in which he brought them forward. I was also interested to hear that Australia is a society of great diversity of aspiration. I was encouraged yesterday to hear from the Governor-General that whatever our aspirations we will be treated by the Government as a whole and the majority will not receive any special treatment. 
I wish to take the opportunity of the AddressinReply debate to consider certain aspects of yesterday's events in Canberra. These include some aspects of the content- if indeed it had content- of the Governor-General's Speech, in addition to events that took place outside the Senate chamber. If I say anything by way of reflection which might seem harsh, I hope that it will be understood that these remarks are made more in sorrow than in anger and that they are made basically because I am a sad man, even more saddened by yesterday's opening of Parliament. Honourable senators on the Government side might say that I have every reason to be sad after the past two general elections and that is true; but there are things beyond the general election results to which I want to refer and which I do find saddening. 
First of all, I must say that the ceremony which opened Parliament yesterday for some reason reminded me of a South American republic to which the British raj might well have once dispatched an honorary consul. I say that because it did seem to me, very much, that the whole thing took place not with relevance to the people of Australia but with particular relevance to those people who serve in this Parliament. The ceremony was devoted very much to their enjoyment and their satisfaction. I noticed with interest the very lengthy barriers which were erected for members of the public who came here to see the ceremony. Only 15 members of the public were sufficiently interested, it appeared, to come along. I mention that because in a symbolic way - 
-I do not think that many members of the public were inside. In a symbolic way this does say something about the institution of parliament, the purposes which it ought to be serving and the purposes which it is serving in reality. In the past I have expressed my concern about the relevance of this institution and I want to return to that subject in a moment. My concerns in that regard were not assuaged at all by the contents of the Governor-General 's Speech. 
Yesterday Parliament was made to appear very relevant, in a media sense, by the somewhat theatrical security precautions which were taken. I should have thought that the best security always was the least obstrusive security, but yesterday the situation was exactly the opposite; it was the most obtrusive I have seen. I suppose that from the point of view of members of parliament the results yesterday were satisfactory but the security really was obtrusive. Cynics might have thought that it was something of a stunt. It was based on a very tragic incident which took place in Sydney a week or so ago. Only some six months ago a man charged in Canberra with the somewhat violent kidnapping of a diplomat revealed in the court proceedings that he formerly had been employed for some time in the kitchens of Parliament House. I should have thought that that would have put some honourable senators off their food and would have concerned them had it been known at the time. 
Only yesterday my two colleagues  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Georges  were not admitted to Parliament House in the morning because they could not satisfactorily identify themselves. The same honourable senators told me that when they came into Parliament House this morning nobody stopped them and they could have gone right through the building without anybody questioning their presence in any way. So what we had yesterday was a sort of instant one-day security operation for media purposes. That seems to me to be a very cynical exercise and one which we ought to think about a little more seriously in the future if people are concerned about security in a genuine sense. I do not wish to dwell on that but I do regard it as a significant aspect of yesterday's activities. 
As I mentioned, in the Governor-General's Speech yesterday we were told that the Government intended to be not a government for the majority but a government for the whole. I should have thought that politically there were some conceptual difficulties in understanding that sentence. I should have thought that there were some difficulties in accommodating the entire economic interests of this country and at the same time, as the Speech purported to do, accommodating the civil liberty needs of the whole of the community. I do not wish to say anything about the Government's economic policies at this stage because they have been more or less clear, for a long time and the arguments have been very well canvassed in the Senate. Personally, I regret that in the Speech there was no questioning of the assumptions underlying the economic growth which the Government seeks to engender into the community. 
In many ways I found the Speech cynical in terms of the approach which the Government suggested for the problems of this country. This confirmed the view of a person who has never been a political friend of mine,  Mr Geoffrey  Fairbairn, as expressed in the  Canberra Times  on 18 February; namely, that this is an unspeakably cynical Government. At the time he was referring to the appointment of  Sir John  Kerr as Ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation, a matter which the Leader of the Government,  Senator Withers,  finds a source of political convenience. The question of principle involved in that appointment were in no way answered at Question Time today; rather, it was suggested that because  Sir John  Kerr was an issue in two previous general elections which we lost that was the end of the matter and the Government was entitled to do exactly what it liked on issues such as that without any criticism of its course of conduct being allowed. 
On reading the Speech this morning I found that there seemed to be two notions which the Government was trying to express. One notion, which the Government has been trying to express for a long time, was the importance of economic freedom for the individual. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has frequently espoused this and has expressed it in terms of an individual 's freedom to make and spend his own money. I should have thought that that was totally inconsistent with the well-being of the majority of the community as a whole and totally inconsistent with the very frequent references in the Governor-General's Speech to the civil liberties or the individual political and social freedom of the citizens of this country. 
-I did not say that. I know that wisdom is regarded almost as a function of old age, but I do not wish to take issue with the honourable senator about that. I put it to him that if he were to listen even he might appreciate the point I am seeking to make. The point, which I shall reiterate for  Senator Wright's  benefit, is simply this: The notion of economic freedom does not necessarily lie well with the notion of individual liberty and individual freedom. I find that to be a very strange marriage in the Speech. Really, what has been attempted is to lard over the notion of an individual 's economic freedom with some lip service notions of civil liberties. As I said, a very large section of the Speech has been devoted to those issues. 
I illustrate this in a particular way. Last week I was talking to a young girl who told me that the night before she had been introduced to and had had conversations with a heroin vendor or, in common terms, a dope peddler. She told me that when she asked him how he justified his economic activities as a heroin peddler he said that people should be free to indulge in any economic activity in which they wanted to indulge and that, on the other hand, people should be free to use heroin if they wanted to and, as he put it, to die in the way in which they chose. He saw that as an essential freedom. What he was really saying, of course, was that in his occupation he was advancing the cause of human freedom. The Speech yesterday reminded me very much of that story because, while I am not for a moment suggesting that the Prime Minister or any other Minister is a dope peddler, although it has been frequently suggested that the Prime Minister is a dope - 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports of grave disquiet in the United States Congress regarding the development of a nuclear industry in the Philippines, particularly an article in the  Australian Financial Review of  10 February, which reads: 
According to congressional critics of the plan, the 620,000- kilowatt reactor is being built close to an active volcano, close to a potential hot mud flow, possibly near a fault line and close to the Subic Bay naval base where more than 3,000 American families live. 
I also refer the Minister to a statement by  Mr Anthony  on 1 7 November of last year when he said that he believed that Australia should supply uranium to the Philippines and said that it wants 3,000 tonnes from us. 
-Using the terminology of the Governor-General's Speech, I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer what level of single-digit inflation must be reached before there can be a sustained reduction in unemployment, as anticipated by the Government. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said in yesterday's national wage case decision that it had examined the state of the economy and the way in which tax cuts operate to give more to those on higher incomes. The Commission continued that in view of that examination it thought it would be just to give a higher percentage wage increase to those on lower rates. I ask the Minister: Is that statement not a clear indication by the Commission that it views the Government's tax cuts as unjust and as a transfer of wealth from the poorer to the wealthier sections of the community? Is it proper that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should make decisions on the distribution of wealth which appear to be contrary to the Government 's policy? 
I am indebted to the Attorney-General for his attitude to the amendment. In relation to his observation about the permanence of records, let me say that some of the records which are dealt with in paragraph (b) are not permanent in the legal sense in which we used to use that expression. I move: 
That the amendment be amended by adding: Delete the word 'and' at the end of paragraph (a) and insert the word and ' at the end of paragraph (b). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, by saying that whilst I appreciate that the Commonwealth has no constitutional power or formal responsibility regarding educational standards in the state school systems, does the Minister consider that he has any duty, as the Minister responsible for education in the whole country, to see that modern courses such as Man- A course of Study- MACOS- and the Social Education Materials Projects- SEMP- which are professionally designed for and relevant to all Australian schools are used in those schools? Secondly, what action does he propose to take to try to persuade the Queensland Government to reconsider its decision, apparently taken politically and not professionally, to drop those courses. Thirdly, in view of the Government's oft repeated concern for community involvement and parent choice in education, what action will the Minister take to see that the parent organisations of all those Queensland schools which have sought to retain the MACOS program will not be denied freedom of choice in this matter? 
Following on the reply of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to the second reading debate, do I understand him to be suggesting that, in conjunction with this legislation, the Government is foreshadowing some change in its current legal aid arrangements? 
I think it was to be suggested by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill and the Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill be dealt with cognately. Is that correct? 
-I indicate that the Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills. The position regarding the attitude taken by judges of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory is set out very fairly in the second reading speech of the AttorneyGeneral. He points out that because of the difference between the position adopted by the Australian Labor Party Government and that adopted by the present Government the judges sought to be absolved from the responsibility of fixing court fees. This, of course, subsequently became the purpose of this legislation. We congratulate the Government's acceptance of political responsibility for imposing these fees. The Opposition's position in relation to court fees remains the same. 
We believe it is an important social task to make the courts of this country, and in particular of the Territories, more accessible to people. We consider that the amount of revenue obtained from court fees is insignificant in terms of total revenue. Of course, the fees are not insignificant to many litigants involved in court proceedings. From the point of view of social justice, equity and the capacity of citizens, whatever their economic circumstances, to seek redress in the courts, in general we are opposed to the imposition of court fees and, more specifically, to the reintroduction of court fees through legislation of the Parliament. I make the position of the Opposition quite clear in relation to court fees. The Government having decided that there should be court fees, we approve the method by which this legislation seeks to set the scale of those fees. 
If I might have that clarified: I am not clear whether it is a principle or an assumption. Both expressions have been used by the AttorneyGeneral and I should like to be clear what the answer is. Is it a principle or an assumption that fees will not be charged where legal aid applies? 
. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, and I do not propose to explain at length the situation which the legislation is designed to remedy or improve. That has been fully dealt with in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  There are, however, some amendments which the Opposition will suggest at the Committee stage. They are not proposed, I might add, in any spirit of hostility to the purposes of the legislation, or the principles contained therein, but merely because in our view they constitute improvements which it would be desirable that the Senate adopt. Otherwise, as I have indicated, we do not oppose the Bill, regarding it as basically sound and necessary legislation. We support the second reading on that basis. 
I move: 
At end of proposed definition of 'document', insert '(c), any record of information'. 
The purpose of this amendment is simply to include in the definition of 'document' the expression 'any record of information' and by so doing to extend the definition to include all things used to record information which have been devised in the past or which may be devised in the future. Whilst the existing definition is quite wide in its scope, it is limited to a number of specifics. By implication, paragraph (b) takes in current technology in terms of 'a disc, tape, paper, film or other device'; but it does not allow for future technology in this very rapidly expanding and developing area of communications. 
The purpose of the amendment is simply to make this definition a little more general in its application and wider in its scope. New technologies for recording information are constantly becoming available. There are other circumstances which may not fall within the existing definition. Records of information kept, for example, by the Aboriginal people in relation to Aboriginal lands may not fall within the definition in the Bill. As I have said, the amendment is not suggested in any spirit of hostility to the legislation. It is suggested simply because we think it is an improvement in technical terms. In addition to that, I should point out that the report of the New South Wales Law Reform Commission on business Records, on which the New South Wales Act was based, had this to say: 
We prefer to define 'document' in functional terms rather than by including in the definition a list of things used for recording information based on the current or perhaps some past state of technology as is done in section 10 of the English Civil Evidence Act 1968 and adopted by the Victorian Evidence Act 1958, section 3. 
The definition in the Bill, in terms of the report of the New South Wales Law Reform Commission, includes a list of things used for recording information. The purpose of this amendment is to widen that definition and to make it more functional, having regard to technological change and the other matters that I have mentioned. 
I move: 
At the end of proposed definition of 'proceeding', add 'or the court of a State when exercising Federal jurisdiction '. 
The effect of this amendment would be that the definition of 'proceeding' would then read:  proceeding' means a proceeding before the High Court or any Court (other than a court of a Territory) created by the Parliament or the court of a State when exercising Federal jurisdiction. 
This amendment may not be regarded as being absolutely essential. In a sense, the Opposition sees it as a son of safety catch to embrace those situations- there are quite a number of examples of them- where a State court exercises Federal jurisdiction. This may occur in the areas of patent law or taxation law which are relevant areas to businesses. As explained in the Minister's second reading speech, the basic purpose of this Bill is to provide that businesses records be admitted as evidence of the matters contained in them in proceedings before the court. Also in the Minister's second reading speech he says specifically that it is desired that those records be provided or admitted as evidence 'on a uniform basis'. The Opposition believes that the definition of 'proceeding' contained in the Bill might be defeated in achieving its real purpose if that uniform basis is not quite clearly spelt out by extending the definition. The purpose of the amendment is to remedy this. 
I would like to make one further point. I refer to what the Attorney-General termed a 'philosophical difference'. There is more to it than that. Although there is a philosophical difference there are also extreme difficulties for litigants. Until the sort of endeavour which  Senator Wright  sought to stimulate is carried forward there may be those problems. I want to have put on the record my view that it is not merely a philosophical difference. It is a very practical one in some circumstances. 
-! move: 
In proposed sub-section  7d (4),  at the end of proposed sub-section, add 'other than a proceeding in which the defendant is a body corporate '. 
The proposed sub-section relates to the provisions of section 77 of the Trade Practices Act, as has already been pointed out in the course of the Committee stage. It provides for civil action to be taken by the Attorney-General or the Commission for payments of pecuniary penalties. The circumstances in which those penalties are payable are set out in section 76 of the Trade Practices Act. It is clear that business records may be of major importance in such cases. In the Opposition 's view it is wrong to characterise an action against a corporation in relation to those business records as a criminal action. This is the effect of the present clause of the Bill, taken in conjunction with the previous clauses of the Bill, . and particularly clause 7 (b). We suggest this amendment- again it is a technical amendment -because we think it would be wrong in those circumstances to characterise of necessity such an action by the Attorney-General as a criminal action against a corporation. Accordingly, we suggest that the words in the proposed amendment be added to exclude proceedings in which the defendant is a body corporate. 
Senator Wright described the amendment as misconceived and relied on that description to say that any proceedings brought under section 77 of the Trade Practices Act would be proceedings against a body corporate. That is wrong. Section 77 clearly states that the Attorney-General may institute proceedings for a penalty referred to in section 76 of the Trade Practices Act. That section specifically delineates proceedings in the case of a person not being a body corporate and in the case of a body corporate. In the view of the honourable senator the amendment may be misconceived for all sorts of reasons but that is not one of them. 
Amendment negatived. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether it is correct that on 8 February of this year three permanent heads agreed that the computer contract for the Bureau of Statistics should be re-opened. Did they take this step on their own initiative or were they merely asked to agree with the Prime Minister's proposal to that effect? Did the Prime Minister or any other Minister communicate with the three permanent heads prior to their meeting on 8 February. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It also relates to his capacity as the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the bomb explosion at the Hilton Hotel in Sydney. What police force has the major responsibility for investigating this matter? Are Commonwealth Police involved? Is the Minister able to say to what extent the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation is involved? What police force is responsible for issuing Press releases which by innuendo identify potential suspect groups as Arabs, Indians, swarthy men, or women opposed to abortion laws? 
-The Senate is debating the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill 1978. The purpose of the Bill can be quite simply expressedindeed, it was simply expressed in a document issued by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)-  as being to prohibit hostile incursions by Australians or persons who have been present in Australia, that is resident in Australia, into foreign countries and to prohibit recruitment in Australia of persons to serve in armed forces in foreign countries. The two categories of persons concerned by this legislation are: Firstly, Australian nationals or persons resident in AustraliaAustralian residents- over a denned period who embark upon incursions into foreign countries; and, secondly, those people commonly known as mercenaries who might be recruited in Australia for service in armed forces of foreign countries. The expression 'mercenaries' is perhaps a bit uncharitable. I think it was  Senator Missen  who pointed out during the previous debate on this matter that there might be volunteers who become paid soldiers but who are not, in the more sordid sense of the term, mercenaries; that is, they might be motivated by considerations other than cash when they are recruited into the armed forces of foreign countries. 
The other important aspect of the Bill is that the incursions into foreign countries which are referred to are those incursions directed against the government of a foreign country. That government, by virtue of this legislation, is the government which is recognised by the Government of Australia as being the lawful government of the foreign country. I say 'by virtue of this legislation' because that was a point at issue on the previous occasion that legislation dealing with this matter was before the Senate. The background of this legislation was debated pretty fully in 1977. Honourable senators will remember that in the course of that debate the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs, the present Attorney-General, told this chamber that there had been two quite clear incidents of training and recruitment in Australia of persons who were being trained and recruited for the purpose of making incursions into foreign countries and partaking in forms of activity hostile to the Government there. 
The examples discussed on the last occasion were the examples of terrorist forces- I think it is appropriate to call them that- which were trained in Australia and went to Yugoslavia for the purpose of indulging in acts which, I suppose, were ultimately intended to bring about the downfall of the Yugoslav Government. Certainly they were acts which were hostile to the Yugoslav Government. In the course of our previous debates we also discussed the situation regarding war in the Middle East and the participation of Australians in that war. Other examples were given which were a little closer to home and which were probably less strictly relevant. 
When this Bill was before the Senate in 1977 the Opposition opposed it in a formal sense. In saying 'in a formal sense ' I refer the Senate to the words of  Senator James  McClelland, reported in  Hansard  of 3 1 March 1977. 1 think he fairly and effectively summarised the nature of our opposition to the legislation at the time.  Senator McClelland  said: 
I should like to point out that the attitude of the Opposition is not one so much of opposition to a measure which is praiseworthy in intent as one of doubt as to whether this praiseworthy object has been achieved by the Bill. Perhaps in the course of this debate the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  will be able to dissipate these doubts. It must have been a difficult Bill to draft and we acknowledge those difficulties. We acknowledge from the outset that the intent of the Bill is praiseworthy. 

 Senator McClelland then went on to deal with the contents of the Bill. 
Following that contribution to the debate a lengthy discussion took place on all sorts of hypothetical considerations. It mainly turned on the question of interpretation of a number of clauses of the Bill, particularly clauses 6 and 9, and related to matters of definition such as the need seen by a number of honourable senators for a definition of the word 'government' and a definition of the word 'advertisement' in relation to the publication of advertisements seeking to recruit persons for overseas sevices. It also related, as I have indicated, to a number of inconsistencies in the drafting of the Bill. An objection was also taken to the provisions of clause 10 of the Bill which stated that the consent of the Attorney-General or a person authorised by the Attorney-General was necessary for proceedings to be taken on indictment for an offence. Some exception was taken to that delegation. 
Suffice to say that after several hours of debate- I speak only of the Minister's charity and indulgence in this matter- he was unable, in the words of  Senator McClelland,  to dissipate the doubts of some members of the Senate, which grew worse as the debate proceeded. Consequently the matter was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. As a member of that Committee, I might say that it was with some alacrity and at some inconvenience that it considered the clauses of the Bill which had been referred to it. Before considering the clauses of the Bill, the Committee invited submissions from the Attorney-General and his representative in this chamber and from other honourable senators who took part in the debate on the Bill. Submissions were received from two senators. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee unanimously and fairly quickly, having regard to the fact that it had the benefit of the debate that had taken place in the Senate, concluded that a number of amendments to the clauses of the Bill were desirable. 
In its report, which was presented to the Senate in April 1977, the Committee recommended a number of specific amendments to the legislation. The first important one was the suggestion that the word 'Government' in the Bill should be defined, and that has been done. The most important aspect of the Committee's report was the procedure suggested for ironing out the inconsistencies in the legislation, which is dealt with in clause 1 1 of the report, and the desirability of having a definition of the word advertisement' in the legislation. All those things have been included in the Bill as it now comes before the Senate, as has the suggestion in clause 20 of the Committee's report that it was undesirable for the Attorney-General to have power to delegate his power to authorise prosecutions. That suggestion likewise has been taken up in the edition of the Bill now before the Senate. 
The Bill before us still has some very minor difficulties which may well be clarified in the Committee stage of the debate. There are honourable senators on this side of the chamber who are concerned to seek elucidation from the Minister on one or two provisions in the Bill, but it is not the intention of the Opposition to move any amendments. We are now in the position of saying that we do not oppose the Bill. Twelve months ago we did oppose it. As we said then, we opposed it not because we found its intent worthy of censure or because we disagreed with its intent but rather because we felt that that intent was not carried out in the clauses of the Bill. Since that time a quite commendable procedure has taken place. The Opposition congratulates the Minister first of all on having allowed that procedure to take place and, secondly, on the Government's acceptance of the suggestions in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. We believe that as a result of that process much better legislation is now before the Parliament and to that extent and in that spirit we say that it is worthy of support. For that reason, as I have indicated, the Opposition will not be opposing the Bill. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Having regard to Australia's de facto recognition of Indonesian control over East Timor, what is the current assessment by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the area of territory in East Timor which is under the direct control of Indonesian forces? What is the area which is under the direct control of Timorese forces? 
I move the motion standing in the name of  Senator Wriedt: 
That the Senate affirms the principle that State and Commonwealth security forces be responsible to their respective governments. 
There are two points in that motion that I should mention at the outset. The first turns on the word responsible' and the second on the word respective'; that is, that the forces in question should be responsible to their respective governments. For reasons that I will attempt to elucidate, the Opposition regards both those matters as important and seeks that the Senate should make an affirmation of a very firm principle which has been a little obscured in this country over the last few years. Certainly it has been obscured in other countries. The principle has become confused, the waters have been muddied, and there is no clarity about the acceptance of the principle that we seek to establish as a prerequisite of a democratic society. 
There have been a number of incidents in our own country relating to the matter of the control of security services. First of all, there was the incident in 1974 involving the former AttorneyGeneral, then  Senator Lionel  Murphy, and the so-called ASIO raid. Whatever political capital people on either side of the spectrum might seek to make out of that incident, it was an incident that turned specifically on the question of the control by government of security forces. That incident in itself led to the establishment of the 
Hope Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security, the report of the Commission, and the discussion that has taken place since the report was published. In recent months we have had what has come to be known as the Salisbury incident in South Australia, an incident that is still the subject of judicial investigation, an incident that revealed a number of disturbing aspects about the relationship between security forces and governments in this country. 
It is quite possible that the whole question of the relationship between government and security services might not have aroused much interest or concern in a country such as ours 10 or 15 years ago. By and large, it was assumed that security services were responsible to government, that they were responsible to their respective governments, and that they operated generally in the interests of the governments of the States to which they belonged. The suggestion that security services might exceed their legitimate function or their charter was usually greeted with a degree of derision. One suspects that it was only because of the peculiar processes of United States democracy that there began to be very serious concern in most democratic communities about these issues. It was only as a result of developments in the United States in 1975 that the suspicions of many people, who 10 or 15 years ago might have been regarded as being a bit paranoid about the whole question, were very largely confirmed. Might I illustrate what I mean about the suspicions of people by referring to the United States agency journal  Almanac  1975 dealing with national security in the United States. It refers to the United States Government probe of intelligence agency activities, and the summary of the revelations, as the article is called, is in these terms: 
Investigations of U.S. intelligence operations produced dozens of revelations about controversial activities. Highlights follow. 
CIA 
Opened more than 200,000 pieces of mail and intercepted and photographed more than 2.7 million envelopes over a 20-year period. 
Directly plotted the assassination of two government heads- Fidel Castro of Cuba and Patrice Lumumba of the Congo- and undertook covert activity against two othersRafael Trujillo of the Dominican Republic and Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam- who were later assassinated (although no direct links to their deaths could be established). 
Conducted 'extensive and continuous' actions in Chile aimed at influencing national elections and overthrowing the government of President Salvador Allende. 
A special CIA group called CHAOS collected information on U.S. dissident groups, compiled files on 7,200 American citizens and developed a computerized index with the names of more than 300,000 persons and organizations. 
The article goes on to deal with the indexing of names, wire tapping, conducting illegal drug testing programs, and so on. In regard to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, another organisation concerned with internal security within the United States as distinct from the Central Intelligence Agency, which by its own charter is precluded from the sort of internal actions in which it took part and which were summarised in the passage I read, the article states: 
Conducted 238 break-ins against 'domestic subversive targets 'between 1942 and 1968. 
Conducted an undercover effort to discredit civil rights leader  Dr Martin  Luther King Jr that involved blackmail, bugging and intimidation. 
Undertook many activities to disrupt and harass the activities of political protest groups. 
Attempted to undermine the personal life of one black leader by sending an anonymous letter to his wife falsely accusing him of infidelity. 
Tried to exacerbate tensions between two militant black groups in Chicago . . . 
As I say, those sorts of activities have been revealed by the peculiar processes of United States democracy which we all sometimes criticise but which I believe on occasions we have reason to envy. That sort of activity can happen here. Many people believe that it may happen here. For example, if we discuss with the man in the street the Hilton bombing incident I think the most widespread version of what took place points the finger of suspicion, perhaps totally incorrectly, at members of Australia's security organisations. That is just a man-in- the-street hypothesis. 
-That is so. That view is widespread. 
-Senator Withers says nonsense '. 
No. I was speaking about Australia's security intelligence services, not the New South Wales Police. 
-I am not saying that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation did it. I am saying that people who use words such as rubbish' about that sort of thing are not fairly facing up to the issues. I am saying that people in 
Australia are saying that sort of thing. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  might regard them as peculiar people. Of course such people were also regarded as peculiar people in the United States. The United States Congress has revealed that they were not peculiar people at all. This goes to the nub of the whole debate. If the Government and the Senate get to a position where they are prepared to face up to those issues as possibilities then we will be able to grapple with the matter in a mature way. I put these issues no higher than possibilities. Let us look at the sons of suggestions in newspapers about the likely suspects, according to police sources, for the Hilton bomb outrage. As I pointed out by implication in a question yesterday, they include Arabs, Indians, swarthy men and women opposed to abortion laws. Those are the headlines. Newspapers have suggested at one time or another that each group was suspect. All I am saying is that amongst newspaper readers there is another group of suspects about whom there is widespread speculation. I am not suggesting that  Mr Justice  Woodward and responsible officers of ASIO would have anything to do with an incident like that. There are people in organisations such as ASIO whom  Mr Justice  Hope has described as immature. I believe they would be capable of indulging in that son of activity. One such person was before the courts last year. He was properly described as immature. He was said to have far exceeded his functions. That sort of thing can happen, and we must be very alert. We cannot afford to by cynical because it is a possibility. 
The speculation about that incident is very much based on views and similar speculation in other countries and revelations that those speculations were entirely justified. The point I seek to get at in this motion is not whether that sort of allegation is right or wrong but whether there is any real teeth in these words in the GovernorGeneral's Speech: 
My Government will carry out a continuing program of law reform, particularly with a view to protecting civil liberties and enhancing individual rights. Constant vigilance is required to ensure that the rights of individual citizens are not eroded or ignored. 
That is the sort of problem with which we have to deal in this country, just as people have had to deal with it in other countries. The Government has said that it will adopt the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in correspondence with the Premiers dated 25 January, particularly the Premier of South Australia, set out that the Commonwealth would co-operate with State police forces in relation to the activities of special branches of the States and ASIO. He suggests in that letter, based on a recommendation of the Hope Commission, that it was proper, given appropriate intergovernment arrangements between the governments, for ASIO to co-operate with the police forces of the States in relation to matters within its charter. The Prime Minister goes on to say that he will be seeking co-operation in relation to those matters. Of course, that is a step in the right direction. We are concerned whether it goes far enough. 
In this country there is still great confusion about the role of ASIO, its relationships with the State special branches and the proper functions of each organisation. It is important that something be done to clarify this confusion because some 1 5 security organisations are operating in a clandestine way in this country. It is important that the terrible confusion which exists about the role of these organisations should be sorted out. I shall illustrate that confusion by quoting from an article in today's  Australian  which deals with the inquiry into the Salisbury sacking in South Australia.  Mr Salisbury,  who had a distinguished record as a policeman, is reported as saying that the Special Branch in South Australia kept files on a number of people including the Premier and Governor. In relation to the Premier, he stated that the fact that  Mr Dunstan  had at one stage sought to join the Liberal Party showed a certain volatility and was a further reason for having a file on him. That seems to be the statement of a confused man, to say the least. The article continued: 
He said files on governors were probably kept simply because they were at one time governors . . . a file on  Sir Mark  Oliphant had probably been kept because he had marched in anti-Vietnam war demonstrations  . . Files on members of the Council for Civil Liberties were justified because many of them had questionable attitudes on the Western way of life and the police. 
I inform  Mr Salisbury  that if he is ever in the job again and if anybody is in a similar job-- 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I am not upholding the point of order so we do not want an argument. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am following the argument of the honourable senator to see how far he goes. 
-The point I am making is that  Mr Salisbury  expressed the view that files on members of the Council for Civil Liberties were justified because many of them had questionable attitudes to the Western way of life and to the police. I inform the Senate, with all due modesty, that I have too. I have very questionable attitudes about the Western way of life, so-called, and about the police. I think that is my right. 
-I have a legitimate right. If  Senator Jessop  had questionable attitudes about the Western way of fife he would probably be a much more effective senator than he is. If the Senate is composed of 64 characters who do not have questionable attitudes to the police forces of this country it would be an apalling thing. I think most of them have. No doubt a number of Government senators have had brushes with the breathalyser squad or something of that kind and have questionable attitudes about the police force. I have questionable attitudes about the police force in its understanding of the concepts of civil liberties which I would hope this chamber would espouse. The point about that sort of thing is that the former Commissioner of Police in South Australia, who I say was undoubtedly a very distinguished police officer, is clearly out of his depth in understanding the nature of a pluralist society. He just does not understand it and  Senator Jessop  is, unhappily for us, clearly in the same basket. He does not understand that in a pluralist society the expression of views critical of police forces, the expression of views about the purposes and nature of Western society, which might be questionable, is part of a vital democratic process- and we happen to live in a vitally democratic country, about which some of us sometimes have doubt. It is quite important that a person who has no understanding of the nature of a pluralist society should not be in a position where he makes judgments about the citizens of that society on the basis that he personally regards their views as questionable. 
It is because of that kind of role confusion in the mind of a senior police officer that people are justifiably concerned about the kind of situation which is the subject of this motion. If one contrasts the confusion in the mind of a person such as  Mr Salisbury  and the confusion in the mind of a person such as  Senator Jessop,  about the points which I have been making - 
-The honourable senator's confusion is perfectly obvious. If one contrasts that with the absolute clarity of mind of a man like Lord Denning- 
I regret my lack of alacrity in being charitable to  Senator Withers,  but I am referring to a document which, with typical Anglo-Saxon modesty is simply described as 'Lord Denning 's Report', and which relates to the rules dealing with the administration of security services in Great Britain. It stemmed from the allegations surrounding the Profumo Affair, an unfortunate incident in which a Conservative politician was involved and of which a man such as  Senator Jessop  should take note because it can happen to even the best conservative politician, and then may be the subject of a report. In dealing with his recommendations, the general principles of which relate to the terms of this resolution, Lord Denning summarised the salient points as follows: 
The Head of the Security Service is responsible directly to the Home Secretary for the efficient and proper working of the Service and not ... to the Prime Minister. 
The Security Service is, however, not a department of the Home Office. It operates independently under its own Director-General, but he can and does seek direction and guidance from the Home Secretary, subject always to the proviso that its activities must be absolutely free from any political bias or influence. 
The function of the Security Service is to defend the Realm as a whole from dangers which threaten it as a whole, such as espionage on behalf of a foreign Power, or internal organisations subversive of the State. For this purpose it must collect information about individuals, and give it to those concerned. But it must not, even at the behest of a Minister or a Government Department, take part in investigating the private lives of individuals except in a matter bearing on the Defence of the Realm as a whole. 
If I might say so, that is regarded as a great statement of principle by a very distinguished British judge. The important points therein are simply these - 
-Yes, and I will deal with that in a moment, senator. I am sure he has seen it and read it very carefully. 
He clearly understands it better than did the honourable senator earlier when he was making silly interjections. It was clear that the honourable senator did not understand anything about the principles involved. The important point is that the function of the security service is to defend the realm from dangers which threaten it as a whole. But here, as I indicated earlier, you have these silly incidents in South Australia, where the Governor appears in security records because he has been in an antiVietnam march. That, of course, did not affect in any way the security of the realm. What it affected was the security of the Liberal Government in Australia, which I assure honourable senators is still a totally different thing in a democratic society: The two are not synonymous.  Senator Withers  nods his head. I wish I could get his head nods in  Hansard,  because it may be the shape of things to come; but he finds that difficult to believe. The sort of situation which has been revealed in South Australia, where the Special Branch keeps this sort of information in conjunction with ASIO, a body responsible to this Government in Canberra, is quite extraordinary and a total departure from the sort of principles about which Lord Denning was talking. He then went on to state his fourth principle: 
The Head of the Security Service may approach the Prime Minister himself on matters of supreme importance and delicacy, but this is not to say that the Prime Minister has any direct responsibility for the Security Service. He has certainly none in day-to-day matters. 
He goes on to deal with that further. The point about Lord Denning 's comments is that they are very clear as to the sort of principles involved, in contrast to the profound confusion which exists in this country, and unhappily in the minds of certain highly-paid legislators in particular. It is in order to try to get over that confusion and achieve common acceptance on both sides of the chamber of a principle which we regard as important that this motion has been moved. 
Lord Denning 's comment is reported again elsewhere in a similar situation, again dealing with the defence of the realm. Following that report the matter was debated at some length in the House of Lords in a very dignified and distinguished debate such as that body, the upper chamber in Britain, is capable of elevating itself to. We could well examine that debate closely because it is concerned with fundamental principles which are well expressed. 
In the comments which I quoted, Lord Denning had nothing in particular to say on the question of privacy and freedom of opinion because he was not, in laying down principles, concerned with those issues. In dealing with the factual matters of his inquiry relating to Profumo and so on, he was concerned with those matters. 
In dealing with that aspect, Lord Chalfont had this to say in the course of the debate: 
It is . . . perfectly permissible for anyone in a democracy to dissent from the policies of the Government - 
If the principle were to be followed here we would have to say: 'except the Governor of South Australia'. The report of the debate reads further: 
. of whatever political complexion they may be, and to attempt to change those policies, or even to change the Government, through the normal political process. To go further, it is equally permissible to dissent from the system of Government itself and to try to change that by persuading a majority of the people that it should be changed; but here it is important to distinguish between dissent and subversion. This is not an easy matter. 
Lord Chalfont added a little later: 
. it might be useful to take as a point of departure the familiar proposition that the distinction between dissent and subversion lies in the dividing line between the use and the abuse of the instruments of democracy. In many cases, of course, the question of use or abuse will be largely subjective and will depend on the political viewpoint of the individual. But there is one factor in this argument which seems to me to be unmistakable and to carry a special significance; that is, the factor of violence. Here again, I think that we must attempt a definition of the terms, because revolutionaries claim that violent disruption and even armed confrontation are justified on the grounds that the State itself uses force, both in making war and in preserving its own internal security. 
But this betrays a serious confusion between the concepts of force and violence, and for the purpose of the present argument I rely upon a simple, but, I think serviceable and, indeed, incontrovertible proposition; namely, that violence is the illegal or immoral use of force. 
He went on to say that in circumstances of violence it can be assumed that the security of the state, as distinct from the security of the government of the day, the establishment in South Australia or whatever it may be, is threatened and that is an appropriate matter for the activities of security services. I think that we ought to rely upon that principle in considering the proposition before the Senate. I refer the Senate to the report of  Mr Acting  Justice White relating to Special Branch security records in South Australia. On page 45 of this report, in contrast to the sorts of principles I have been attempting to enunciate,  His  Honour asked the question: Who clearly are not security risks? He referred firstly to reformers of the Constitution. He said: 
Persons who advocate fundamental changes to the present Australian Constitution are not security risks, because they do not use or advocate violence and because they have no past history of violence when seeking to attain their ends. 
He went on to deal further with the topic of the violence criterion, if I can call it that. Lord Chalfont talked about it as the criterion by which one assesses risks against the state in security terms. The next classification  Mr Acting  Justice 
White put of people who are clearly not security risks is socialists. If I might modestly say so I fall into the first basket, which was about reformers of the Constitution. I also fall into the second basket. He said that socialists are not security risks so long as they do not advocate force or violence or do not have a history of violence. He said the same about people who advocate worker participation in industry. He said that they are clearly not security risks. Ministers of religion are clearly not security risks because, again, they have not as a practice advocated violence or force. 
-The Leader of the Government in the Senate tests me too much. I have to reveal that only at the beginning of every new Parliament. The next basket is the Council of Civil Liberties.  Mr Acting  Justice White went on to deal with that category. Of course, it was dealt with in sharp contrast to the attitude that  Mr Salisbury  expressed when he said that it was appropriate, in his view, for a security service to keep files on members of civil liberties associations in South Australia. I have mentioned those matters to reveal, as I see it, the very sharp contrast between the principles that we ought to be working towards and that the Senate should espouse, in order that it may have a clear view of the responsibility of security services, the responsibility of government and the responsibility of the security services to their respective governments and what seem to be the realities in this country in a number of incidents which, as I said earlier, seem to muddy the waters. There seem to be two clearly desirable principles. Firstly, there should be clear government control and responsibility. Secondly, there should be no confusion between the function of the collection of security information or data dealing with espionage or matters of that kind which involve the possible violent overthrow of the state and the executive function of ordinary police forces, which perform the function of being an executive arm of the state, that is to say, they carry out functions which are executive functions pursuant to legislation of the parliaments. Those quite clear principles should be established. 
I am not the only one who is concerned about this matter. The Opposition in this chamber is not the only body which is concerned about this matter. I believe that the same concern for the same sort of principles was expressed very clearly when this was a matter of important public discussion in January of this year. I illustrate that concern by referring to some newspaper comments at the time. I refer firstly to the  Canberra Times  of 1 9 January. It said: 
The case of South Australia and the observations made by  Mr Justice  Hope about State Special Branches make it clear that a drastic overhaul of the systems will be needed to protect civil liberties, to place police intelligence activities firmly under the guidance and control of elected political authorities, and to give people who have been the subjects of security reports access to these reports and the means to appeal against them. 
It is quite true that in the Governor-General's Speech reference was made to a security appeals tribunal. Of course, if one analyses the rather flamboyant passage dealing with that one finds that all it really says is that if a person happens to be a public servant in Australia and he is denied a job as a result of a security report or something of that kind he will have a right of appeal in relation to that matter. It does nothing for all the pinkoes, weirdoes, homosexuals, abortion law reformers, Governors, Premiers and people who were caught by  Mr Salisbury's  net in the arrangements which existed in South Australia or, one presumes, in the arrangements which exist in other States between special branches in conjunction with ASIO. I think it is a very important distinction that it applies only to public servants. The  Canberra Times  went on to say: 
. it seems that the gathering of political, ideological and security intelligence is not a suitable function for an arm of the police unless it is made answerable to superiors who are entirely divorced from the traditional criminal law duties of the police. 
I interpolate that the criminal law duties of the police are conducted pursuant to statute and it is quite wrong, as the  Canberra Times  has pointed out, to confuse the functions which the police exercise quite properly in those ways in relation to criminal law with a totally different investigatory function relating to security. The  Canberra Times  went on to say: 
Above all, the evaluation and communication of information that could be prejudicial to individuals who have committed no crime should not be left to the discretion of police officers whatever their competence and integrity in their given field. 
That is another way of establishing the point which I sought to make. On 19 January, the Melbourne  Age  criticised greatly the current situation. This is summarised in its reference to divided loyalties and diffused responsibilities between security services. It said: 
National security is a Federal responsibility and, insofar as ASIO requires an executive arm, this should be provided by the Commonwealth Police under strict guidelines and safeguards. 
That is to say it should not be provided by State police. It continued: 
The role of the Special Branch should be confined to surveillance of individuals and organisations likely to breach State laws. 
This is another point which relates to the confusion of functions between the State and Federal governments. Several passages similar to those I have quoted appeared in various newspapers published at that time. They quite clearly express concern at the confusion between various functions of various governments and the relationship with the security services responsible to each of those governments. 
I have referred to the sorts of principles which have been enunciated in Britain and I have referred to the inquiries which have been conducted by the Congress in the United States in relation to this sort of confusion. As a result of the inquiries conducted in the United States,  President  Carter has sought to establish a much more responsible overview of the activities of intelligence services. There are really two essential points in that. He has now what is called an Intelligence Oversight Board which is basically a committee of three members responsible to the  President  to review intelligence activities overall. In addition he has established in the United States what is called the Congressional Intelligence Committee. That Committee is made up of members of Congress and has the following functions: 
To keep the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Senate Committee fully and currently informed concerning intelligence activities including any significant anticipated activities which are the responsibility of or are engaged in by such department or agency. This requirement does not constitute a condition precedent to the implementation of such intelligence activities. . . . 
That information is taken from a document entitled 'Administration of Jimmy Carter 1978' which was obtained from the United States Information Service. So in the United States there is the development of a system which seems much more responsive to Congress and the executive arm of government than the confused system that we have here. The important point in this motion is that the reality of civil liberties and efficient functioning of government must seek at all times to live up to the rhetoric about it. We have had plenty of rhetoric about it and it is important that the reality reflect the apparent concern in that rhetoric. 
I do not want to deal at length with the recommendations of the Hope report because of the time factor, but let me say simply that there are some very unsatisfactory elements of the Hope report. Like all those reports which are a bit lengthy- I recall the Fox report as a classic example which was, if I might use Frank Muir's description, a mine of completely useless informationthe Hope report has the same characteristic, that is to say, it is a lengthy report which seems to the lay reader like myself to have certain conflicts and confusions in it. For example, following the publication of the Hope report a number of clear factors emerged. One related to the efficiency of an organisation such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. A summary of the findings of  Mr Justice  Hope in relation to that Organisation was that it could not keep even a filing system but was keeping files on all sorts of people, as has been revealed in South Australia, without being able to operate a filing system in even the most elementary way. That, as I understand it, is a source of concern which happily the Government is moving to rectify. However, looking back on the activities of ASIO over a number of years, that is an alarming finding. 
Arising also from the Hope report, the Government has moved to set up a ministerial committee dealing with intelligence collection and a permanent heads committee, and there is provision based on the recommendation in the Hope report for ministerial control. However, compared with the suggestions in the Denning report and the United States Congress report, the Hope report strikes me as being extremely vague on this issue. I illustrate that remark by quoting two passages from the Hope report. In paragraph 352 of the Fourth Report, Volume 1, His Honour had this to say: 
It seems to me that, in general terms, the Director-General must be subject to proper directions by the Minister, and that the Minister should be responsible, 'in a general way', to Parliament for the organisation and its activities. 
He goes on to say in paragraph 353: 
The matters in respect of which the Director-General should not be subject to ministerial direction are: 
Whether any particular intelligence or matter is or might be relevant to security for the purpose of the Act . . . 
What is really being said in the Hope report is that the Minister has no specific control and ASIO has no specific responsibility relating to a matter which is or might be relevant to security. Such a matter is determined by the subjective opinion, presumably, of an officer of ASIO. That is an extraordinarily vague and unsatisfactory provision compared with the quite clear statements which Lord Denning was prepared to enunciate in England and which  President  Carter's committee seems to have been prepared to enunciate in the United States. 
We as a Senate should be concerned about this matter. We should be concerned, as the former head of Scotland Yard,  Sir Robert  Mark, who is in Australia at the moment pointed out the other day in a newspaper interview, that in all these matters we should be diligent and concerned, as  Sir Robert  put it, to protect our liberties. It is with that in mind that the Opposition moves this motion in the Senate. We do it also because we seek affirmation of a principle about security forces. We seek some of the clarity in Australia which enlightened the mind of Lord Denning and we should look, as we often do in matters of ritual, tradition and parliamentary procedure, to the tradition of civil liberties in the United Kingdom and to the words of that great judge for the sort of criteria which we should have in this country. We also have cause to be concerned about the revelations in this country in the last couple of months which are totally consistent with the revelations in countries such as the United States of America over a number of years. 
We cannot assume, as some honourable senators on the other sides of the chamber clearly would like to assume, that we are different in some ways, that those things cannot happen here, that it would be impossible for an immature ASIO officer to put a bomb in a garbage tin outside the Hilton Hotel. We cannot assume that this could not happen in a country like ours. I certainly do not assert that that did happen, but it is irresponsible for anybody to assert with any force that it did not. I make that comment in the context of all the revelations in America and here. The Senate should be diligent and unanimous in approving the principle in the motion which the Opposition has moved, that is, that this Senate affirms that State and Commonwealth security forces should be responsible to their respective governments. We have seen confusion in this country because there is no clear demarcation of the functions of each government and no clear demarcation of the functions of each security force to the total detriment of the civil liberties of Australian citizens. This has led to the investigation of matters which are not properly security matters and do not relate to the possible violent overthrow of the state but relate to the questioning activity of individuals to civil liberties in Australia. If we do not establish that principle and be clear about it, it will be a bad day for this chamber and for the governments and parliaments of this country as a whole. For that reason I commend the motion to all honourable senators. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services and Minister representing the Prime Minister. Does he agree that recommendations for government tenders are an area in which no political influence should be brought to bear? If he does agree, can he advise what guidelines, if any, have been laid down on relationships between those who evaluate tenders and Ministers of the Government? 
-On 2 1 February this year the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  wrote to  Mr Mu  Pingue Fongue, the Secretary of the Timorese Committee for Permanent Residence in Australia, in the following terms: 
You wrote to me on 6 December 1977 seeking financial support for the work of the Timorese Committee for Permanent Residence in assisting refugees from East Timor to settle in Australia. I regret that you have not had a substantive reply to your letter before now. 
I appreciate that important part played by your Committee in meeting the community needs of the Timorese people but unfortunately I have no funds available at present to provide immediate assistance to the Timorese Committee for Permanent Residence. The limited funds that were made available to my Department late last year for ad hoc assistance to ethnic groups and organisations were already fully committed before I received your request. 
The Minister went on to detail where those funds were allocated. I refer to that letter tonight because I regard it as a totally bureaucratic response to what is a very tragic human situation taking place in Australia under our very noses, as it were.  Senator Missen  and I, although coming from different political parties, were able to obtain a little further enlightenment on Saturday of last week when we had a meeting in Melbourne with members of the Timorese community who are refugees in this country. 
The Minister's response is a bureaucratic one. That may sound a little harsh, because I believe the Timorese community in Australia is grateful for the assistance it has had and the reception it has received in this country. What the Minister was relaying in that letter- he went on to detail it- was that it was quite impossible for the Commonwealth of Australia to find some $12,000 to support what was effectively a welfare office for the Timorese community in Melbourne. That seems to me to be an extraordinary attitude, an extraordinary statement and one which is so reprehensible that I felt it incumbent upon me to make it the subject of my maiden speech during the adjournment debate in the Senate. I trust that it will also be my last speech on the motion for the adjournment. 
The meeting which  Senator Missen  and I attended was also attended by some 150 refugees who are living in Melbourne. If I might briefly explain the situation of Timorese refugees in this country: There are some 2,000 refugees from Timor, most of whom are women. In the course of the meeting last Saturday we met a number of women with children who husbands are in Timor and are anxious to come to Australia. We also met a number of children with parents either in Timor or Portugal, who have been cared for by distant relatives in this country. For example, we met one young boy called Amerigo who is 1 3 years of age.  His  father is in Timor and his mother is in Portugal. He has been in that situation for some two years now, and because of what seems to me to be bureaucratic indifference in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, nothing has been done to expedite the bringing of one or both of his parents to Australia.  His  situation is repeated over and over again with various other children who are members of the Timorese community in Melbourne. 
Most of the adult Timorese refugees are women. Their native language and culture are different from ours. Many of them came to the meeting on Saturday by public transport, often with children, to express their concern about inaction on the matters I have mentioned. I think that is indicative of the rather tragic situation which exists. I might add that the plight of women who encounter this sort of difficulty in any country is made much more difficult in the Timorese people by the particular relationship between the father and the Timorese family. He is in a sense a patriach, the titular head of the family, and is responsible for all those practical activities in respect of which he most sadly missed in the kind of situation I have described. 
There are a number of issues on which I wish to touch only briefly, because I understand that my colleague  Senator Missen  will be speaking on the matter also. He will also, I think, be referring to a petition that was given to us by the refugees present at the meeting last Saturday. I do not want to go into details concerning its contents, and it is not the kind of petition than can be tabled in the Senate, but it contains a number of references to the hopes which these people had in the Australian Government as, to use their words, uncompromising defenders of human rights- a charitable view of the Australian Government that I have not been able to share, but it is their opinion. That aspiration, that promise, has certainly not been fulfilled as far as the Government's response to them has been concerned. The sorts of situations which exist are simply these: Many of these families have husbands and fathers in Timor. Others have husbands and fathers and relatives in Portugal. It would not seem to be as difficult as the Department pretends to bring some of those refugees from Portugal. It is admitted that there have been difficulties in bringing refugees from Timor to Australia. 
Let us look at the situation insofar as Timor is concerned. It was in either March or April last year that it was first announced that it was. the Government's intention to send a party of departmental officials to Timor to interview people who desired to come to Australia to rejoin their families. For a number of reasons which amount to nothing more than prevarication- of which I might say both major political parties in this country would probably be guilty in such a situation- really nothing has happened since. Some six weeks ago, in announcing the de facto recognition of the Indonesian regime in Timor,  Mr Peacock,  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, again raised this question of the possibility of speeding up the reunification of Timorese refugee families in Australia with their husbands, fathers and so on. All that has done has been to raise new sets of hopes, somewhat cynical I suppose, in view of the fact that this matter was first mooted by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs as early as March 1977, and that nothing has happened since. 
The kinds of anxieties which arise from the knowledge that a civil war is still going on in Timor- despite the answer which  Senator Withers  gave in this chamber last week, there is ample evidence of people being engaged in a conflict, being killed, injured and so on- are, in themselves, chronic anxieties to Timorese in Australia. When one adds to that the kind of separation factor which is now of two years' standing and the stress that causes to women with children who are on their own in Australia, one sees that a very real social problem is developing about which we believe the Government should be quick and alert to do something. 
If I might illustrate what the Government might do about it: In the last 12 months the Timorese community in Melbourne has, I think it is true to say, been sustained by the activities of  Mr Joao  Goncalves, who has been their effective welfare officer and has been employed by the Timorese Committee for Permanent Residence. He is a man I, and I think other senators from Melbourne know personally, a man who speaks Timorese, Portuguese and English, one who has, far beyond the call of duty, been available at all hours of the night really to solve social problems for members of the Timorese community who are in great distress. The letter I read earlier from the Minister relates to this man. I refer to the statement that the Minister cannot find $12,000 to keep this man in his position. He has become a focal point of the Timorese refugee's life in Melbourne, has looked after them, has sustained them, has interpreted for them, has looked after their problems with the Minister, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and so on; for the services of that man who has sustained them for the last 12 months, there is just no money available beyond 7 April. It seems to me, leaving aside any notion of human compassion which might possibly grip a Minister of this Government or indeed members of the Senate, in a moment of aberration, to be bad business not to be able to find $12,000 to look after people in that situation. It is for that reason that we are most concerned to raise the problem and urge that some action in relation to it be taken. 
Until this year the salary of  Mr Goncalves  was paid by the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. As a result of that body's inability to continue funding his activities the Government was asked to do so. It has been unable to assist, presumably in the sacred cause of cutting public expenditure. It is tragic that that restraint should be applied in this situation. Leaving aside the many problems that undoubtedly exist, such as the situation of the 200 Timorese children in Melbourne who have no special teaching facilities or help of any kind available to them and who are in a difficult and desperate position, we have a community in Australia which is upset and distressed about a situation in its homeland and a community which is upset and distressed about the real social problems that exist for it in this country. That community is effectively being denied the sort of help it should be given by a government of any compassion. 
I conclude by referring the Senate to the report of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid of August 1977 entitled 'A Response to a Green Paper- Immigration Policies and Australia's Population'. In that report ACFOA had something to say firstly about  the notion of family as it applies to the Timorese community and other communities of a non- Western culture. 1 do not want to touch on that in any detail, but some hardship is caused by the very strict application of the notion of family in the nuclear sense as we understand it in a country such as Australia. In relation to East Timor specifically ACFOA said: 
ACFOA is concerned that the Minister appears to be reneging on his former statements regarding the acceptance of refugees from  East  Timor. It is particularly concerned about the change in criteria which will not allow many people to come from East Timor to be reunited with their families. . 
ACFOA believes that the continual lack of action regarding the reuniting of families from East Timor, separated since the latter part of 1975, is causing emotional hardship and possible long term psychological damage both to those who are already here and those separated from them. 
Special assistance K required for Timorese refugees as the bread-winners of the majority of families stayed in East Timor. Many Timorese refugee families in Australia, therefore, are suffering by having rip head of family. 
Further, ACFOA believes that the excessive delay in processing Timorese refugees presently in camps in Portugal is quite inhumane, is inexcusable and should be rectified forthwith. 
ACFOA believes that the past ambiguities of Australian policy towards East Timor have resulted in confusion and the raising of false hopes amongst East Timorese people. We should therefore regard all East Timorese wishing to come here as refugees and treat them as such. 
With the greatest of respect that is a damning indictment of a country whose former prisoners of war have a vastly different story to tell about what the people of Timor did for them in 1943. That document from ACFOA is a damning indictment of this country's indifference to the plight of refugees from another country which in earlier years did so much for us when it was not bound to do so. It is for that reason that I have raised this matter in the Senate. 
I direct my question to  Senator Withers  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the question I asked him yesterday relating to guidelines governing the relationship between Ministers and officials in relation to government tenders. The Minister in his answer yesterday said: 
. procedures relating to the Facom incident were not totally under the control of that Board. 
The Minister was referring to the Stores Supply and Tender Board. I ask the Minister: Under whose control, other than the Board, were those tenders at that time? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March, 1978: 
1 ) What criteria are used for the selection and admission of elderly persons at the Northcliffe Lodge Hostel for the Aged, Edithvale, Victoria. 
How many residents are in the Lodge at present. 
What is the amount paid weekly by each resident. 
-The Senate is debating the following matter of public importance: 
That the Senate request the Federal Government to assume full legislative responsibilities for Aurukun and Mornington Island Aborigines in Queensland for the purpose of implementing the Federal Government policies of selfmanagement. 
I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on the informative nature of her speech which, with respect, sounded like an article in the  National Geographic.  This is perhaps appropriate, having regard to what the Minister said in her latter remarks. The nub of this matter is outlined in a question which was asked yesterday in the other place by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  to which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  replied. I refer the Senate to that question for the specific purpose of indicating that it outlines the nub of the argument.  Dr Everingham  asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser): 
Will the Government take steps to take over Aurukun and Mornington Island Missions before the Queensland Government does so on the pretext of improving services to Aborigines. What further steps have been taken since the change of government in 1975 to implement abolition of the racist, feudal State settlement laws and regulations in Queensland- an action which was promised by the Government? Has his attention been drawn to recent statements of the Queensland Premier that moves for land rights in the States, as implemented in the Northern Territory, could lead to a black takeover backed by Communist countries? Will the Government take steps to implement Aboriginal land rights throughout Australia, or will the Government continue to defer to the States which prefer to subject Aboriginal rights to mineral exploitation? 
The Prime Minister indicated that the question would be answered by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister said: 
The honourable member's question deals with the action announced yesterday by the Queensland Government to take over administration of Mornington Island and the Aurukun communities from the Uniting Church in Australia. I was advised of the action by the Church. 
I interpolate that he was not advised by the Queensland Government. The Minister continued: 
I am concerned if this action is being taken against the wishes of the communities in both those places. This morning I received a telegram from the  chairman  and council at Mornington Island which states: 
Council and community not consulted on Government take-over. What is happening? Please help us. 
The Minister went on to say: 
I have also received a request from the Uniting Church that I hold urgent discussions with it. I shall be seeing a deputation tomorrow. The Uniting Church has a long and distinguished record in the administration of Aboriginal communities in northern Australia and also in other parts of Australia, pursuing modem policies of self-management so that Aboriginals may take charge of their own affairs and make decisions for themselves. The Government and I are watching the situation very closely and we will examine what needs to be done to preserve the interests of Aboriginals in these places. 
That answer by the Minister contains some essential facts: Firstly, action was announced by the Queensland Government; secondly, the action was against the wishes of the communities in both places; thirdly, the Uniting Church has a long and distinguished record, as the Minister described it, in relation to those two settlements; and, fourthly, the Uniting Church has a commitment to policies of self-management. One or two other facts were not contained in the Minister's answer- I do not blame him for that at all, of course- such as the history of the settlements, which has been referred to by  Senator Gietzelt  and the Minister for Social Security. 
Another important fact is the motivation of the Queensland Government and the shoddy record of that Government in Aboriginal affairs. For example, the announcement of the Queensland Government was accompanied by the suggestion that somehow in law the Uniting Church was not an adequate successor to the Presbyterian Church for the purposes of administration of Aurukun and Mornington Island. There was the suggestion, which was referred to in a question asked today in the Senate, that somehow the Uniting Church was responsible for education and so on in Aurukun and Mornington Island when in fact it is the responsibility of the Queensland Government. We in this place are used to turning a blind eye to a quite shoddy record of the Queensland Government in relation to standards of public propriety, the financial involvement of Ministers in the Queensland Government, particularly the Premier, in companies which bring them into direct conflict with the interests of Aboriginal communitiesfor example, their involvement in companies such as Comalco Ltd and subsidiaries of the Utah corporation. We are fully aware of the implications in that for the Aboriginal people in those areas. We are aware of the attitude of the Queensland Government to the trachoma program. That is a dramatic illustration of that Government's attitude to the problems of Aboriginal health in Queensland. 
That State remains one out. It is the only State which has not been prepared to hand over to the Commonwealth control of Aboriginal affairs. In an article in the Melbourne  Age  of yesterday  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, was reported as saying that he would find out the wishes of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island but that the Government was powerless to prevent the Queensland Government taking control of the two Aboriginal reserves. The Minister admitted that there was no legislation which would give him power to stop the takeover. The Opposition in this Parliament must be pardoned for assuming that the Minister's statement indicates some desire to put the issue on ice for the time being. I am not now persuaded that that is necessarily the case. 
The constitutional position in relation to the power of the Australian Government is clear. It has power to make laws for the people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. Of course, in constitutional terms that issue has the recent support of the people of Australia. It was the desire and expressed will of the Australian people for the Federal Parliament, where necessary, to make laws with respect to Aboriginal people. That is no more clearly stated than in the Yes case which received an overwhelming vote in 1967 when that referendum went to the people. In relation to that law, the Yes case made simply this point:   . . to make it possible for the Commonwealth Parliament to make special laws for the people of the Aboriginal race, wherever they may live, if the Commonwealth Parliament considers this desirable or necessary. 
It went on: 
This would not mean that the States would automatically lose their existing powers. What is intended is that the National Parliament could make laws, if it thought fit, relating to Aboriginals- as it can about many other matters on which the States also have power to legislate. 
I believe that is the expressed will of the Australian people in recent terms, having regard to the history of our Constitution. It was a specific result. I refer the Senate to one other matter. In 1901 the same question came up in relation to Queensland in a slightly different form. In the first year of the constitutional history of this country  Sir Edmund  Barton, the Prime Minister of Australia, wrote to the Queensland Premier. In the letter he made it quite clear that in any areas where there were joint powers between the Commonwealth and Queensland, the Commonwealth will should prevail in a matter on which the Australian people had expressed their views. In referring to the Premier's suggestion that the Queensland people knew better about the matter than did the people of Australia as a whole, the Prime Minister of 1 90 1 had this to say: 
Such an inference this Government cannot admit without disloyalty both to the Federal Constitution and to the Parliament which was elected under it. Citizens of the Commonwealth have the clear right to express themselves upon the nature of proposals laid before the country by the Federal Government, and the more influential the citizen, by reason of achievement or public service, the more weight will the people attach to his opinions. But the claim that your Government represents the public opinion of Queensland on this question more truly than the Federal Parliament which Queensland helped to choose is openly made in your letter, and my answer to it must necessarily be that I cannot admit it without being prepared to admit a similar claim on the pan of each State. 
The point I make is that in 190 1 the Prime Minister of this country was prepared to assert himself in that clear way on a similar matter which involved people of racial origins different from the bulk of the Australian community. In 1978, if necessary, this Parliament should not shirk from its legislative responsibilities under the Constitution from taking similar action. I conclude my speech about the importance of this subject matter by referring the Senate to a book which I have been reading. It is called  Living Black.  The author, Kevin Gilbert, when talking about Aboriginal people in this country, in his introduction stated: 
I have also written this book in order to bring White Australia to some greater compassion through understanding and to enlighten it to its responsibilities in the areas of land and compensation for Aborigines. 
It is my thesis that Aboriginal Australia underwent a rape of the soul so profound that the blight continues in the minds of most blacks today. It is this psychological blight, more than anything else, that causes the conditions that we see on reserves and missions. And it is repeated down the generations. 
The point of the matter before the Senate is to make sure that this so-called responsible chamber, this House of Review, makes it quite clear that, in its view, the blight should not be handed down to future generations. For that reason I support the matter raised by  Senator Gietzelt. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can the Minister give any indication of the information which it is intended should be collected at the 198 1 census? Is it a fact that the census form may be modified considerably from the form used in previous years? In view of the importance of the series of information obtained in the census for the monitoring of important trends in society, will the Minister tell the Senate what is planned? 
-At a later stage I intend to move the amendment to the motion standing in the name of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  I will move that at the end of the motion the following words be added:  and that the matter of the security of Parliament House be referred to the Privileges Committee. 
Before dealing with that matter, I should like to say that the statement has been of some concern, I suspect, to members of the House of Representatives and certainly to members of the Senatenot so much because of its content but because of the way in which the statement came about and certainly because of the atmosphere in which it came about. It came about after years of absence of anything that could be described as security in this building. We did not even have the sort of security that would have kept a cow out of Kings Hall if it decided to wander in. 
-That is true,  Senator. I  do not think  Senator Withers  should be so unkind to members of the coalition parties. The point of the matter is that in the circumstances following the Hilton Hotel bomb incident a degree of hysteria was engendered in Government circles in this country which one feels was totally out of accord with the response which might have been dictated in the circumstances, particularly by a government which might have been aware for a very long time of the possibility of this situation arising in one form or another. 
The sort of over-reaction which was reflected in Parliament House was, of course, best demonstrated on the day of the opening of Parliament when it reached quite absurd lengths. No doubt certain honourable senators will want to comment about that. In the following days there was also a fair degree of over-reaction. I shall make one or two comments about that based on my own experience. I found it absurd, for example, that on the Friday following the opening of Parliament a group of carpenters arrived in my office with the apparent intention of nailing up the door leading to the balcony. I understand that they also arrived in the office of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  with the same apparent intent. 
There has been no consultation at all. 
As  Senator Baume  is curious about the particular circumstances, I will give him the details. I was in Melbourne at the time and I was alerted to this operation by my secretary in Canberra. She was in some distress when she rang me about this matter. I told her, with the gallantry which comes from all armchair strategists, that she was to place herself between the door and the carpenters until the issue was resolved. That is perhaps not the most difficult instruction to give if one is not there oneself. It is an instruction which I did give and which seemed to have certain desirable effects because the door was not nailed up. 
-I shall have to check before answering the question which  Senator Colston  just addressed to me. Certainly the door was not nailed up. I looked at the door when I came back; I did not look at my secretary, as I ought to have done. The point about that sort of incident is that it seems to have arisen because of an ad hoc decision made by way of over-reaction to a situation which probably did not exist and no one appears to have been consulted before that decision was made. 
As I understand the traditions of Parliament, the rights and privileges of members of parliament are peculiarly matters for the Parliament to consider and there should not be an infringement of those rights and privileges- whatever that infringement might be- without proper consultation and discussion with the members of parliament. Members of parliament cannot delegate that function of determining their rights and privileges to a committee; for example, the Joint House Committee, which in no way is specifically empowered by its charter to deal with matters which might involve the rights and privileges of members of parliament as distinct from the physical conditions in which members of parliament work. That sort of situation has a dual aspect. It impinges on the rights of members in some respects; it certainly impinges on their rights if they are not consulted about it. 
One could make some quite obvious and trite statements about this building. This is an old building, not in an historical sense, but it is a building which has been here for some time. It was erected as a temporary building and has been added to as the functions of this Parliament have expanded. But there are all sorts of things about this Parliament which have been of concern to honourable members and honourable senators for a very long time. There is the matter of the comfort and working conditions of people in the building. There is also the matter of the risk which people run in this building, not from threats to security as such, but undoubtedly from such events as storms or fire. I say 'storm' advisedly because I have had the experience of literally seeing some of my papers float in my room while I have been a member of this Parliament. 
-Not that door; another door. Certainly I should think that there would be a very serious risk of fire in a building of this type. The sorts of decisions which have been carried out to seal doors, on the ground floor of the building were raised with me, not by members of parliament but by staff of the Parliament, including officers of the Senate. Some of these people are quite concerned that, whilst their security from a suspected outrage of some kind or another induced by people might be heightened or increased by the precautions which have been taken, their security in relation to matters like fire have been vastly threatened in their view. For example, in the event of fire people who work in ground floor offices in certain areas at the front of this building probably would have only one means of escape, namely, through the front doors of the building. There are very few facilities on hand in Parliament House to cope with an electrical fire or something of that kind. The building is, in the sense which I described earlier, old and one would think it would be something of a fire hazard. 
One would like to assume that that is so, but I cannot assume that it is so. I do not know whether it is necessarily so. Certainly it does not comply with any standards that would be laid down by a labour inspectorate in respect of the people who work here, for example. 
In relation to fire? 
-I am indebted to the interjections from which I am able, as it were, to feed for a minute. The point of  Senator Missen  's interjection in relation to fire is totally consistent with what one suspects is the situation in relation to the health of the people who work here. I suspect that not one employer in this country would not run the risk of prosecution if he employed people under some of the conditions under which employees of this Parliament have to work and in some cases I suspect under which members of this Parliament have to work. No labour inspectorate I should imagine has ever darkened the door of this place. I am sure that  Senator Baume  's faith is not misplaced. I accept his belief that the Canberra Fire Brigade, whose report we receive every year and  Senator Baume  no doubt reads it, makes inspections of this building and that it is not regarded as a fire hazard. But so many other buildings have been inspected in a like manner in Melbourne and Sydney and have been subjected to serious fires and serious casualties even though those inspections have taken place. 

 Senator Baume, who appears to be content with the situation as it is explained in your statement,  Mr President,  and with the safety precautions in this building, will probably recall the time last year when there was a bomb threat in this building. He might recall what took place on that occasion. For example, police and the housekeeper- if you please- went around checking individual offices looking for a bomb and told individuals to go out of the building. But, of course, there was no warning system. In the unlikely event of an honourable senator or an honourable member being asleep, or meditating, or recumbent, or otherwise not totally alert, there was a grave danger that that honourable member or honourable senator might have been blown up on that occasion because he could not have been found by the housekeeper. That is an example of the very real danger that can arise from the lack of any centralised warning system in case of such threats as were uttered on the occasion of that bomb scare and which might be uttered again in the future. 
One assumes that the response which the Presiding Officers have arrived at was made after consultation with some experts in this matter. Again I am indulging in charitable assumptions and joining with my colleague  Senator Baume  in that regard. But the response is really extraordinary. First of all, it involves the introduction of a pass system which one might imagine would be of limited value as a deterrent to a serious intruder into this place. Certainly one would think that it would be regarded as being of limited value in view of the very great number of visitors who come here. But the statement issued by the Presiding Officers states: 
The pass system will not alter the existing freedom of movement, or the existing restrictions upon movement, within the building of persons permitted to enter the nonpublic areas. 
I think there are very real difficulties about that. I should have thought that one of the privileges of members of parliament in this building is that they are entitled to be visited by any person who they desire to visit them. What is euphemistically described as security in that sense might well be dangerous from the point of view of securing that freedom of members of parliament to have, as it were, anonymous guests or visitors come to the building if they so desire. That is a problem in which one thing must give way. If a risk of insecurity is to be removed there is a corresponding infringement on the civil liberties- on the privileges- of members of parliament if that freedom of access and movement is in any way curtailed by a pass system and there is a collection of bureaucrats of one kind or another standing at the doors of Parliament House asking people for their passes and who they are when they come in and go out of the building. 
If I could put it in a very blunt and obvious form, if a public servant wants to come and, in colloquial parlance, wants to leak something to a member of the Opposition- reprehensible as that may be regarded in general political terms- the freedom of that person to do that and the freedom of the member of Parliament to receive that information might be curtailed by a pass system such as is used in the Bantu lands or in certain airline establishments. The suggestion that there should be an examination of baggage coming in and out of the building is, I think, a sensible sort of thing which should have taken place years ago. But it is also subject to loopholes according to the way in which it is phrased. 
I think one of the unfortunate things about the statement is that there could be a tendency for overt security precautions of a kind like this-that is, very obvious security precautions- to encourage the fringe dwellers of Australian society to stimulate their interest in this building and to see its importance as being far greater than perhaps it is in its day to day functions. I think that is always a danger. If we have security precautions which are obvious to members of the public, then, as a corollary, members of the public who may be less than- if honourable senators will pardon another colloquialism- 100 cents in the dollar will think something very interesting is going on so it may be a good place to put on a stunt of some kind. I think that always follows as a corollary of very obvious security precautions. 
The statement is silent on who will be responsible for the co-ordination of security activity throughout the building. It points out that an officer has been appointed. It does not mention who that is, where he comes from, whether he is an officer of the Parliament or of some security organisation, what his qualifications are or what his responsibilities will be in relation to members of Parliament. I regard that as a defect in the statement. While a lot of things in the statement are unexceptionable and represent probably very sensible changes which should have been implemented many years ago, the proposals represent a change for members of Parliament who have been used to this place as a place of very free access. I do not say that that sort of freedom does not have to be sacrificed to some degree in the interests of security but these proposals represent a change because they affect the lives of members and their day to day movement. The statement suggests that there will be some unnamed and unknown bureaucratic figure in charge of this operation. If members are not told about this there is a very real risk that the limitations of the members' freedom- as they are used to it- will cause friction and dissatisfaction among members of the Parliament. In our view this matter affects the rights and privileges of members. I know that some people on my side of the Parliament have very sensible views and some of them have quite bizarre views. I am sure that the same remark applies to members of the Government parties. 
I do not have a mad sense of identification as  Senator Martin  probably has. I am sure that many people on both sides of the Parliament have bizarre views about this matter. It is not a silly matter about which we should have these schoolgirl affiliations. The important point is that people have put different views about the proposal. For that reason this matter can be seen to affect the rights and privileges of members of Parliament and we would have sought much greater elaboration of the statement. We would have sought much greater clarification of what can be understood from certain sections of the statement. We would have expected that there should have been much greater consultation between the Presiding Officers and members of Parliament. 

 Mr President, I appreciate that it has been very difficult for you and for your colleague  Mr Speaker  to indulge in a mass Athenian-style democracy consultation in cases like this. But it certainly would have been thought more satisfactory if, before some of the specific incidents to which I have referred actually took place, there was at least some intimation to members of the Senate and the House of Representatives that it was intended to proceed with those matters. I summarise the views which I have put. I think I can say that I speak for my colleagues and myself when I say that by and large we see the whole matter as being an extraordinary response and a vast over-reaction to a very unusual situation which took place at the Hilton Hotel in Sydney.. Many of these matters should have been attended to years ago. To that extent, some action is welcomed but it is felt that the sort of action which has been taken in a rather ad hoc way without proper consultation may be seen to affect the rights and privileges of members of Parliament. I accordingly move the amendment which stands in the name of  Senator Wriedt  and which states: 
At end of motion add ', and that the matter of the security of Parliament House be referred to the Privileges Committee'. 
-As I rise to deal with these two reports I recall the report of the Standing Orders Committee which has been debated recently in the Senate. While I have been a member of the Senate, on behalf of the Opposition, I have taken note of many papers without ever quite understanding why. As a result of what is on the Notice Paper for tonight, I at last begin to understand, and I congratulate the Standing Orders Committee on the suggestions it has made regarding the practice which has taken up much of the time of the Senate, and for no apparent purpose, since I came here. As I understand the report of the Standing Orders Committee, senators are enjoined to exercise great discretion as to the reports of which they ask the Senate to take note. I thoroughly agree with that view. In relation to a number of reports that are on the Notice Paper tonight, valour was somehow the better part of discretion insofar as I moved that the Senate take note of them. There is a great advantage in the procedure in that if one is to speak about a report it is, I suppose, encumbent upon one to have read it. For those honourable senators who have not read the reports, I suppose there is some advantage in at least one senator having read them and being able to speak about them. 
The report of the Australian Institute of Criminology for 1977 and the report of the Criminology Research Council, as  Senator Baume  quite properly has suggested, in a sense are properly dealt with together. I will make some observations, firstly, about the Institute of Criminology annual report. I simply say that in the year in question the Institute clearly suffered from a lack of adequate funding. This restrained the Institute in the necessary crime prevention study and research upon which it otherwise might have embarked. According to the report, the Institute has been receiving about the same budget each year since the appointment of the first director in 1975. In real terms, this represents a substantial drop in finance available and consequently will hamper the growth and development of the Institute. The report reveals that financial restrictions have caused the cancellation or postponement of a number of nationwide activities in which the Institute otherwise might have been engaged. The Director,  Mr W.  Clifford, states in the report: 
. the capacity of the Institute to respond to real needs is diminishing and it is clearly unable to take advantage of all the opportunities currently available. 
He then sets out what he considers some of those opportunities to be. The first is: 
to consolidate its position nationally and internationally; 
That refers to the Institute 's position. A section of the report deals specifically with international affiliations and research. The second opportunity the Director said the Institute is not able to take advantage of reads:  to provide information to the Commonwealth and the States for a broader, co-ordinated approach to the problems arising from crime, especially in the area of crime prevention planning where expertise of world standing within the Institute is under-utilised because of lack of funds; 
The third opportunity reads:  to direct and co-ordinate education in criminology, especially in relation to the criminal justice services; 
The fourth one reads:  to take advantage of the interests in prisons and prison conditions arising from the Royal Commissions or inquiries in New South Wales, Tasmania and South Australia; 
I might add that there has been a great deal of press publicity about prison conditions. There has been much concern in my own State of Victoria about conditions at the major prison of Pentridge. Since the publication of this report further concern has been expressed and public discussion has taken place about conditions in prisons in New South Wales in particular. They are the four areas which the Director of the Institute of Criminology first mentions as being important opportunities which the Institute has been unable to take up because of a shortage of funds. Three others are mentioned. One of them reads:  to contribute to change and improvement in the police forces of States, especially in view of the recent new appointments of police commissioners and of officers to the top echelons of police forces; 
The Senate will be aware of the relatively new appointment of a police commissioner in Victoria, of a similar situation in New South Wales and of a slightly traumatic situation in South Australia which arose after this report was prepared. Other opportunities which the Institute has been denied read:  to contribute to current reviews of court procedures; and to take advantage of the data now flowing to the Institute from its international associations. 
The grants made to the Institute by the Australian Government in 1975-76 amounted to $932,000 and in the following year, 1976-77, in real terms the grants were reduced to $904,400. That is the magnitude of the reduction in real terms. Of course, it is much larger in terms of the capacity of the Institute to carry out much of the work with which it is properly concerned. In looking through the report and some of the projects with which the Institute has been concerned one can see a number of areas of research relating to matters such as police stress and things of that kind which are probably matters not of the utmost urgency in terms of the overall function of the Institute. They are important in terms of research and important, of course, in terms of police forces. But perhaps they are not as important as some of the other matters which are mentioned in the report. 
I use this opportunity to express my concern about the habit of bodies such as the Institute and the Criminology Research Council, which have undoubtedly learned from government in Australia, to use acronyms to describe their programs. It is perhaps an unnecessary and slightly off-beat consideration to raise in the Senate but both the Institute and the Council have been singularly imaginative- one might almost say brilliant- in the choice of their acronyms, which is more than one can say about many government departments. For example, I instance two research projects which have been funded by these bodies and the acronyms used to describe them. The first is called the SOFTLY program. I inform the Senate that SOFTLY stands for Social Options for Teenagers Like You. Another program of the Institute is described as CINCH, which stands for Computerised Information from National Criminological Holdings. I do not want to digress from the subject matter of these reports except to say that I find it unfortunate that an institute and a council such as these, which are bodies of great distinction, should follow the example of government departments in using these acronyms, which are totally confusing to members of the public and in my view represent a total debasement of the English language. 
If I might refer especially to the area of employment and industrial relations in this country, if any honourable senator has seriously tried to describe to a young unemployed youth what options are available to him in terms of assistance, the exercise is totally bizarre. One needs a special dictionary of acronyms in order to explain to a person in that situation what is really available to him. I apologise both to the Institute and the Council that my malign eye in relation to this subject matter lighted on their acronyms for particular mention, but I consider it most unfortunate that they have followed the bad habits of government departments in this regard. They provide, of course, singularly imaginative examples, and to that extent ought to be congratulated. 
The decline of funding to the Institute and to the Council is a matter of great concern at a time when, in Australian society, the crime rate is generally increasing very rapidly. I can give the Senate briefly some statistics on the problem from my own State. In 1977, major crime in the State of Victoria increased by 1 1 per cent. That was especially exemplified by an increase in armed hold-ups, by an increase of 9.2 per cent in fraud, by a significant increase in drug abuse and, if I might say so, by a most marginal increase of 12 between 1975 and 1976 in the number of methylated spirit drinkers. 
The publication of these reports was accompanied by comment in the newspapers including one by  Mr White  of IBM Australia Ltd relating to what is called computer crime, which he says is costing this country about $ 10m annually. I take computer crime to be interference with the workings of computers. 
I take it to be the misuse of computers in a variety of ways and not, as  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out, anything which we have been debating in the Parliament in the last week or so, which as yet cannot be described as computer crime. There are a variety of aspects of the increase in the crime rate and  Mr David 
Biles, Assistant Director of the Australian Institute of Criminology, has predicted that the Australian crime rate will increase to a record peak in the year 1979. Optimistically, and I hope correctly, he has anticipated that there should then be a decrease in the crime rate in Australia, but he expects that that decrease will be slow. He states further that the cost of crime in the next few years, indeed in the next decade, will be enormous. He suggests that Australia's crime bill, including the cost of criminal courts, may be expected to rise to $ 1,200m this financial year, compared with $964m in 1975-76. So one really has to juxtapose those figures if one accepts the significance of criminological research, if one accepts the importance of the two bodies whose reports the Senate is considering, and the reduction in funds available to them. The reduction in funds is almost paralleled inversely by the rise in the cost of crime to this country. I am not suggesting that one follows from the other but the two things are happening together. In the context of these reports that must be regarded as unfortunate. 
To a large degree the whole discipline of criminology is an after-care discipline. In many instances it is concerned with the results of poor social conditions which we as legislators have been less successful in solving than we might have been. Given that our success rate is not likely to improve, it is important that the utmost be done to see that the work of criminologists and these two bodies is funded and supported to the best possible extent.  Mr David  Biles to whom I referred a moment ago in relation to predictions about increases in crime rates and subsequent decreases has also stated that some of the factors which contribute to increasing crime rates are unemployment, inflation, the condition of the economy and so on. All these factors are directly within the province of government. They are factors about which we ought to be concerned. In particular, the Senate is becoming increasingly cognisant of the fact that there is a correlation between unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and crime. There is also a correlation between social disillusionment caused by youth employment, and potential crime. It is important that this fact be noted by the Senate in considering the two reports. 
I mentioned the funding of the Institute. The Criminology Research Council had a reduction in grants between 1975-76 and 1976-77 from $125,000 to $16,300. The Australian Government makes a fairly small contribution but the 
States also contribute. The Council is a cooperative effort on behalf of the Federal Government and the States governments in an area which requires the utmost co-operation and exchange of opinions, research information and other material between the various police forces and the law enforcement arms of the respective governments. I do not wish to say any more about the two reports except that their contents should be commended to the Senate. I hope I have successfully drawn to the Senate's attention the situation regarding funds available to the Institute, the more important work of the Institute and the relationship- in some ways tenuous but in other ways very important to this societybetween the work of the Institute and the growing crime rate and significant degree of social disability in this country, which are not likely to improve in the immediate future. They are very important contributing factors to crime. 
Most of us acknowledge that the unemployment problems of this country, particularly youth unemployment, are not likely to be solved quickly. We all acknowledge that in another important area of criminal activity, drug abuse, the situation in Australia has probably not yet peaked. We are not fully aware of the disastrous social ramifications of drug abuse, particularly amongst young people and the extra criminal consequences. In commenting on the reports I draw the attention of the Senate to those factors in particular. I commend to honourable senators the very important need to ensure that both these bodies, particularly the Institute, enjoy the continued interest and support of members of this chamber. 
-I shall be very brief in dealing with the contents of the 1976-77 report of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. One of my notes says that it is important to relate what this body is doing to the world at large. I intended to make that comment about the report of the Australian National University, but it might equally well be made about the work of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. This report has some historical significance if nothing else. It is the last major report of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. For many years this body played a role and made a contribution- we believe quite properly- to an area of industry in this country which has been fraught with difficulties and industrial problems. It has had a bitter and tragic history at times. I was reminded of that history during the weekend when I was reading a biography of  Sir Richard  Kirby, a former  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It dealt at some length with his involvement in the problems of the stevedoring industry dating back to the 1 940s. 
I am reminded of that by  Senator Mulvihill.  Because this is the last report of the Stevedoring Industry Authority, the Parliament should pay a tribute to its work. After much delay we recently embarked on new legislation in relation to the industry. In some respects- I think I indicated this view at the time- it is very much a step into the dark as well as being a step into the future. The essence of the new stevedoring industry legislation is that arrangements on the waterfront will be, by and large, conducted by negotiation and, one hopes, agreement between the principal parties on the waterfront. It is interesting to see what this report reveals about the principal parties on the waterfront in the last year covered by the report. Referring to waterside workers on the Australian waterfront the report states: 
The average weekly earnings of all categories of waterside workers increased, as did the average hours worked per week by all except those employed at non-permanent ports under normal award provisions. The men employed under normal award provisions averaged, at permanent ports, $22 1 . 69 per week for 24.7 hours worked, as compared with $189.59 for 23.3 hours in 1975-76. At non-permanent ports, they averaged $155.99 per week for 14.2 hours as compared with $ 145.40 for 1 5.7 hours in the previous year. 
It goes on to say that cargoes handled increased slightly in the relevant period and it indicates something of the nature of those cargoes and particularly the additional handling of container and roll-on roll-off vessel cargoes during the year. In relation to the employers in this industry the report states: 
The Prices Justification Tribunal conducted two inquiries into stevedoring charges. It found that- proposed increases by James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd and Patrick Operations Pty Ltd in wharf handling and shippers' charges at a number of ports were not justified; the existing prices charged by those Companies for wharf handling and shippers' charges at Sydney and Melbourne and for mechanical equipment hire at Sydney were not justified and should be reduced; and the rates charged by Seatainer Terminals Ltd for handling containers at terminals were not justified and should be reduced. 
These were the first instances in the history of the Tribunal in which it found that existing prices should be reduced. 

 Mr President, I have quoted those two extracts from the report because in their own way they describe something about the labour situation and the employer situation on the waterfront. That is why I suggested earlier that the disbandment of the Stevedoring Industry Authority, however much it is desired by the parties on the waterfront, under the legislation passed by this Parliament is in many respects an act of faith which is not always the most desirable basis for legislation. But the Parliament has passed that legislation, and it passed it before this report was available to it. The report records the type of information which I have mentioned in relation to both labour and employers on the waterfront. 
This report is a mine of statistical information on the industry. I am assured that complementary legislation to the Stevedoring Industry Act of 1978 provides that that material will be recorded as port statistics and will be made available to the Parliament each year. I think it is important that that material should be available, particularly in view of the contents of the main stevedoring industry legislation which the Parliament passed. The statistics contained in this report are important for students of both labour conditions and efficiency of the stevedoring industry in this country. To that extent they are well worthwhile and should be retained and made available to both the Parliament and students of this subject. I have nothing more to add to my comments on this report. As I have said, in a sense it is an historic document as it is the last main report of the Authority. For that reason it has been worthy of the brief consideration it has received in this Senate. 
-I speak to this report for the same reason as I spoke briefly earlier on two other reports. I would like to make a couple of comments about the nature and importance of the report. Before doing so, I should say that it must be a source of regret that the Parliament so recently received a report of the Australian National University for 1976. I understand that there were serious difficulties in getting this report printed, and that, of course, is a matter of concern and a matter of explanation as to why the tabling of the report in this Parliament was delayed. We must be concerned with the consequences, not with the reasons. It is undesirable that the report should be delayed because a lot of water has flowed under the bridge since this report was compiled. 
I should like to refer to two aspects of the report which seem to me to be important. It commences by setting out the functions of the Australian National University as they were determined in 1 946 when the first Australian National University Act was passed by this Parliament. The objects of the University were described in 1 946 when the University was established under the Post- War Reconstruction Act. The report states that the functions of the University were: 
To encourage, and provide facilities for, post-graduate research and study, both generally and in relation to subjects of national importance to Australia; 
to provide facilities for university education for persons who elect to avail themselves of those facilities and are eligible to do so; and 
subject to the Statutes, to award and confer degrees and diplomas. 
It is the first of those objectives of the Australian National University which singles it out from other universities in Australia. The Australian National University has a particular function, that is, to encourage research and study in relation to subjects of national importance to Australia. I think it is important that we remember that fact when considering this report. There is a nice paragraph in the Vice Chancellor's report which constitutes the first chapter of this report, which describes in a very brief way the present situation of the ANU and its situation in this capital city of Australia. I should say that the Vice Chancellor's report is an extraordinarily interesting and extraordinarily descriptive section of the report, which gives a very impressionistic view of how the University functions. In describing the present situation the Vice Chancellor said: 
Depending on how one counts the much welcome parttimers, there were in 1976 about 6000 students- and upwards of 3500 staff, academic and general. All up, this is 5 per cent of Canberra's total population. After the Commonwealth Public Service, they comprise the second largest working complex in the capital city. 
That is an important and interesting statement when one considers the situation, role and function of the Australian National University, particularly the function of conducting research in relation to matters of national importance to Australia, to which I referred earlier. Apart from describing the present situation of the University, the functions of the various research schools and the functions of the various faculties, the report draws attention to the financial situation of the University and states that it is a difficult one. It points out that real operating costs by 1979 will be reduced to 3 per cent below those in 1975. The report records on page 9: 
The repercusssions are manifold. Plans for an undergraduate medical school at this University have been shelved; whether indefinitely remains to be seen. A planned $12 million building program has had to be replaced by a $200,000 minor works program. The time when the University's seven research schools can expect to reach their long agreed ceilings on academic staff numbers has been indefinitely postponed. Many other carefully considered objectives have had to be shelved as well. 
That is the situation which pertains in the ANU, as well as in other universities. In some degree it must be regarded as a matter of concern. This report marks the thirtieth anniversary of the Australian National University, which commenced operations in 1946. During its 30 years some distinguished people, such as Prof. R. D. Wright of the Melbourne University, a brother of our colleague in the Senate, served on the Council of that University for 30 years from 1946 to 1976. 
-I would say that both the Wright brothers in their own way are radical men. 
-Thank you,  Senator Rae.  The point I am making is that in the 30 years in which the University has existed over a very long period services have been rendered to it by a number of distinguished Australians; people such as  Sir John  Crawford and others come to mind. A number of others have given a great length of service to the University. 
If one reads the report of the Australian National University one sees that in a sense in its own unique way the University provides a sort of microcosm of the problems and anxieties of universities throughout Australia. When I say problems and anxieties' I mean problems which relate to the definition of the role of universities in Australian society. Are they basically institutions of higher learning and research; are they institutions on the traditional model of the great English universities; or are they institutions whose prime function is to turn out vocationally orientated graduates? I think that in a sense all universities in Australia face this dilemma at this point in time. It is reflected in the Australian National University as well as in others. 
It is often difficult for the Australian community, which supports universities like the ANU- a university of which I believe all Australians are rightly proud- to understand and appreciate the sort of work which is being done in universities of this kind. The research projects of the Australian National University are set out in the back of the report. It  is  very difficult for the ordinary Australian to see the relevance and significance of many of those research projects. One might be tempted to say that, because the ordinary Australian cannot see the relevance and significance of many of those research projects, there is something wrong with the University. That might be a conclusion which one could draw. One might say that the public relations people of a university which fails to relate to the community on the sort of work it is doing are not all that they might be. 
I believe that in this Parliament we have reached a stage where, in the next few years, we will have to start to question the article of faith of all Western societies, including the Australian society, that the medical and scientific research that is being done necessarily constitutes progress towards some extra enlightenment- some continual progress towards the elevation of mankind -and that all we as citizens in a community have to do is to have faith in the progress of science, which will go on and on, and to believe that that faith justifies expenditure on all sorts of projects about which ordinary people might justifiably be very concerned and critical. We have never yet come to the stage in this Parliament where we have faced up to these sorts of problems. But I believe that in the next few decades we as a Parliament will have to try to make value judgments and try to establish bodies which will assist this Parliament to make value judgments about the direction in which scientific research is going. 
I speak for myself, but I suspect that I might be speaking for others, when I say that we can no longer opt out of the whole situation as an article of faith and say that we are satisfied that we as a community are spending money on scientific research which is necessarily conducive to the well being of the people in this society. That is an enormous problem for a Parliament to have to face up to- an enormous problem for the whole of Western societies to face up to- but I suspect that we are coming to the end of the period in the history of mankind when we can be totally satisfied about claims that scientific discovery and research will lead, as I put it, towards the greater enlightenment and wellbeing of mankind. There are plenty of examples of the sorts of extraordinary and undesirable consequences of scientific research which societies have been persuaded are necessary for human advancement and which have shown in time not to be so at all. 
I use the debate on the report of the Australian National University, which in many ways is perhaps the greatest research institute in this country of a university kind which is supported by appropriations from this Parliament to raise that issue because I think it is important that it is raised on the agenda of politics in this country. We cannot any longer commit ourselves to unquestioning acceptance of economic growth and the desirability of economic growth, or unquestioning acceptance of the benefits of scientific research and discovery. 
I commend to honourable senators the report of the Australian National University. It would be easy to go through it and make quibbling points about various research projects, various items of expenditure and that son of thing. I believe it is important that, to some degree, universities have a greater amount of autonomy in regard to those matters than other institutions and departments which are supported by the Parliament. I do not believe it is appropriate to make this quibbling criticism. 
One other matter I raise and which I know has concerned the Australian National University and its Council is the passage through the Parliament of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) legislation. Honourable senators will recall that when that legislation was gagged through the Parliament there was a lot of criticism of it from the Opposition. We felt that the ramifications of that legislation were not fully realised. Honourable senators may recall that it was pointed out that the legislation could have bizarre consequences in a number of situations; and from that point of view it was a most undesirable piece of industrial legislation, poorly thought out and presented in haste and anger rather than in quiet deliberation. 
One of the ramifications of that legislation which has been a source of concern to the Council of the Australian National University is its implication on academic freedom and the freedom of academics in the community to pursue both their chosen vocation and their right to express views about a great variety of controversial issues with which the community is confronted. That is a matter about which  Senator Rae  may have some wisdom. He is gesticulating at me; I do not know whether it is for me to be quiet, to sit down or to abandon my course of action. Whatever he means, I want to finish my point. I offer that comment in no criticism of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whom I know is giving consideration to this matter. I offer criticism of the Government, as I did at the time, because I think the legislation is bad legislation which should never have passed the Parliament in the form it did and certainly should not have passed the Parliament in the way it did. As far as the problems of the Minister are concerned, I am not offering that comment in any spirit of criticism at all. 1 commend the report to the attention of the Senate- 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Was the reference to the Industries Assistance Commission concerning the light commercial vehicle industry considered by the Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Assistance to Industry? Was it recommended by the Department of Industry and Commerce? Was it a result of direct agreement between  Sir Brian  Inglis of the Ford Motor Co. and the Prime Minister? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the reason for an extract of a birth, baptism or marriage certificate issued at least five years ago, or an insurance policy, issued at least two years ago, as evidence of a claimant's identity for the purpose of claiming unemployment benefit, as indicated by instructions on how to claim benefit shown in the unemployment benefit pamphlet, November 1 977, PR9. 
Why is a driving licence or savings bank passbook unacceptable without supporting evidence. 
Why is the production of a medibank card or medibank book unacceptable as evidence of a claimant's identity. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether the Government is acquiring a computer for the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury in South Australia. If so, will such acquisition be subject to public tender, and what special arrangements have been entered into to date with IBM Australia Ltd without public tender? 
-The Senate is debating the Government's recognition of Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor. Before I comment about this issue I shall deal with some of the comments made by the principal spokesman for the Government,  Senator Sim.  He began his remarks by apparently finding it very amusing that the Opposition had moved an urgency motion in respect of this matter when, in fact, recognition of the Indonesian Government took place on 20 February. He said that the Opposition was a bit slow. We have not moved an urgency motion. We have raised for debate a matter of public importance. It is a matter of public importance now. It has been seen to be a matter of public importance by the Opposition in this chamber in a number of debates over two years. It will be seen to be a matter of public importance again in the future if the sort of consequences which we see as following the Government's action continue to exist in relation to East Timor. 
The other major burden of  Senator Sim's  argument on behalf of the Government was to point the finger at the Australian Labor Party Government of 1973 to 1975 and say: 'You did not do the right thing in relation to East Timor in those years. You are therefore debarred from criticising us for what we do. ' With the greatest of respect to  Senator Sim  I should have hoped that by now this chamber could have elevated the debate on this tragic issue a little above the practice of point scoring and saying: 'Although we have done wrong it does not matter because you also did wrong in 1973 and 1975. Therefore, there is no validity in anything that you now say about the problems which arise from the Government's recognition of the Indonesian takeover of East Timor. ' That is debasing the whole level of debate in the Senate. It is an example of what I hope are politics of the past. It reduces the level of debate on foreign affairs and other issues to the lowest common denominator. 
The same sort of position was followed by  Senator Knight  who seemed to take great comfort from the fact that the Whitlam Government apparently declined to see Horta in 1 975 when he was in Australia. By a process of selection he ignored the fact that when Horta sought to come to Australia in 1977 he was even refused a visa by the Fraser Government to enter the country. That is an example of selective politics of the most extreme kind. It debases the whole level of political debate about a situation such as that in East Timor.  Senator Knight  went on to comfort himself by the suggestion that the Government had done all it could by, as he put it, international negotiation to ease the refugee situation and to see that the suffering of people in East Timor was alleviated as much as possible. We put it that the Government has done all it can short of expressing in any way a firm attitude to Indonesia on these questions. That is the difference and the purpose of this debate. I remind  Senator Knight  that it was only last year that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  was told by Adam Malik: 'If you in Australia do not stop these criticisms of Indonesia in relation to East Timor we will put on a demonstration outside your Embassy in Jakarta. ' That was the method of negotiation of Adam Malik, the Foreign Minister of Indonesia, with the Foreign Minister of Australia in 1977. If that is the sort of negotiation which  Senator Knight  is talking about, it is not the sort of negotiation I shall applaud as an Australian or as a member of this Parliament. 
I shall recapitulate briefly some of the important issues in relation to East Timor. We have a close geographical relationship with East Timor. In a very strange way we have a close fraternal relationship with the people of East Timor. That is recognised by many ex-servicemen in this country. The people of East Timor came to the aid of many Australians during the war when they were in trouble. I think they are a little resentful of the fact, and many of the exservicemen concerned are aware of this, that when they had their troubles in 1975, 1976 and 1977 Australian governments- I use the word in the plural- did not do as much as the people of East Timor justifiably anticipated that they might have done. In December 1975, following the invasion by Indonesia, it was popularly believed in this country that the issue would be all over in a matter of weeks, that it would be another goer and that all we had to do was sit on our hands and wait for the whole question to disappear. We thought the Indonesian forces would overrun East Timor in a matter of weeks. That was not so. We are still talking about the issue in 1978. In spite of what  Senator Knight  said, there is still substantial evidence that large areas of East Timor are not under Indonesian control. 
It was not, as was predicted in 1975, a matter which would soon be all over. That piece of wishful thinking still comes back to haunt us. This issue is still the subject of important debate in the Senate. In March 1976 the United Nations representative,  Mr Guicciardi,  visited East Timor. In his report- his visit was not particularly assisted by the Government of the time- he again advocated self-determination for East Timor after drawing attention to the fact that his visit was constantly hampered by the Indonesian authorities not letting him have access to the regions occupied by the East Timorese forces as distinct from the Indonesian forces. Another matter of which we must take account, whatever  Senator Sim's  view of the United Nations might happen to be, is that it has repeatedly condemned unanimously Indonesian aggression in East Timor and unanimously advocated selfdetermination for East Timor. Another fact of which we must take account is the real evidence of very high levels of casualties amongst a population of 600,000 people. We can debate the percentages but it is generally conceded now that the number is approximately 60,000. That figure has been accepted by the United States Congressional Committee. The population has no doctors, no medical supplies, no hospital facilities and no access to the facilities of the International Red Cross. During a war involving a civilian population in tragic circumstances, a war which involved women and children, there were no medical supplies and there was no capacity for hospitalisation or any form of international supervision. There are no observers of the Timor scene. There have been no observers since the Indonesian forces first went there in December 1975. 
That is the real tragedy of Timor. We can all debate what is happening in various other parts of the world and matters which are offensive to us in terms of their violation of human rights, standards of proper medical care and things of that kind on the basis of some reasonable assumption about the facts because of the presence of outside observers, the Press or teams from the United Nations from which there is an independent source of information. Right on the borders of Australia is a closed shop. There is a tragedy on the doorstep of this country to which this Government continues to turn a blind eye. 
I shall refer to the sorts of matters which have been raised in the Senate for the purpose of trying to elicit information about these matters. One could go back as far as 3 March 1976 when I asked in the Senate what was happening in relation to the Australian Government's support for United Nations observers and medical suppliers in East Timor. I was told on that date in a written answer that the Government was very much in favour of a resumption of humanitarian aid, both government and private. Its view at that time was that such aid should be made available to all parties involved in the conflict, irrespective of political affiliations, in all areas of East Timor. That was the Government's view on 3 March 1976. We find that now, in April 1978, the situation is no further advanced. All that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been told by the Indonesian Minister is that he had better be careful or there will be a demonstration in Jakarta. That is the level which publicly we are aware the negotiations have reached. 
Subsequently there was a move in the Senate to establish a committee of the Senate to examine the East Timor question. That proposal was rejected by the Government. On 9 March this year I asked a question of  Senator Withers  as the Minister who represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this chamber. The question was asked following Australia's de facto recognition on 20 February 1978 of Indonesian control of East Timor. I asked  Senator Withers  what the Government's assessment was of the amount of territory in East Timor which was under the direct control of Indonesian forces. I asked further: 
What is the area which is under the direct  control of  Timorese forces? 
I was told by  Senator Withers  in his answer that there was disputation about that matter, although the Government's view was that Indonesia was basically in control of the whole of the territory. The Leader of the Government in the Senate then said: 
I shall seek the information . . . Calling on memory- I am pretty certain I am correct- the assessment is that, in fact, Indonesia is in control of that country. 
It is now 5 April and I am still awaiting the information I was promised on 9 March about the degree of control by Indonesian forces in East Timor. It is an important matter because it bears on the subject matter of this debate. On 14 March both  Senator Missen  and I again raised questions about the position of Timorese refugees in Australia. There were 2,000-odd Timorese refugees in Australia and some 1,500 other people in East Timor and in Portugal who wanted to come to Australia for the purpose of reuniting with their families. 
In March 1977 the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  promised that a team would visit East Timor directly within six months to look at the whole question and he said further that negotiations were in process with the Indonesian authorities. As of April 1978. nothing has happened. It has been reiterated that the Government will arrange a visit to East Timor in connection with this question of the reunion of Timorese families, but nothing has happened. The Timorese refugees to whom  Senator Knight  referred are rightly apprehensive that the sort of undertaking given in March 1977 will be of the same value as the undertaking which is now being given again. More importantly, when this issue of Timorese refugees was raised in the Senate on 14 March 1978 the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said that she would obtain information for the Senate about the allegations which were made by  Senator Missen  and myself. As at 5 April 1978 no information has been provided. What we have is a long record of vacillation and prevarication by the Government, and, of course, one suspects the continuing refusal to negotiate with Indonesia in anything but a subservient and spineless way. That is the problem. That is the reason why this matter is raised again as a matter of public importance. 
In announcing the Government's de facto recognition of the Indonesian position in East Timor on 20 February this year the Minister for Foreign Affairs did two things. Apart from making a number of pious statements which we are all capable of making and which we have all made in the course of debates on this issue, the 
Minister gave no real justification for the de facto recognition. Of course, in the question I put to  Senator Withers  about the area of territory in East Timor controlled by the Indonesian Government I sought that justification. I have not had an appropriate answer; the justification is just not there. By way of explanation of why the Government gave de facto recognition, the Minister tried to justify the Government's action on the basis of future family reunion and the rehabilitation of Timor being important ingredients in a practical contribution to the peace of the area. Of course, they are not important ingredients in a practical contribution to the peace of the area, but they are very important ingredients in human terms. Nothing suggests in any way that the Government is taking action to support those rather waffly statements which were made by the Minister on 20 February this year as a justification for the stance taken. Of course, the true justification for the stance taken is the Government's concern at any price, as  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out in his contribution to this debate, to appease Indonesia without making any examination of the real issues involved, of the moral issues involved, and indeed of the very practical issues of whether that sort of policy in relation to Indonesia is likely to be in the national interests of this country in the long term. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (5.1 1)- My contribution will wind up the debate. I have listened both in the chamber and at other locations where the opportunity is available to me to all of the matters that have been raised in the debate, and I think I have a pretty fair idea of what the general tenor of the debate has been. Fiery as it has been sometimes, and specific as it was in the case of my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  who is not in the chamber at the present time, and rational as it was in the case of  Senator Knight,  the debate has revealed a conflict, as it were, between emotion and reason. Unfortunately, in dealing with the affairs of men we are always involved with the problem of whether reason should prevail, whether emotion should prevail, whether emotion should govern reason or whether reason should govern and control emotion. 
I think the very first thing we must understand is that when we are dealing with an Indonesian government, or indeed when we are dealing with echelons of Indonesian government, we are dealing with people who have a cast of mind which is different from ours and who see matters in a manner which is totally different from the way in which we see them.  Senator Gietzelt  would be the last to refuse to acknowledge the fact that, with his background and his study of Marxist theory and philosophy, he would use a Marxist form of analysing a problem. It is equally true to say that on other occasions I might examine a problem on the basis of my traditional view of capitalism as against Marxism. 
The reason I am making those points, minor as they may seem, is that in fact we are dealing with people in Indonesia who from our point of view are quite irrational. Let me illustrate that by relating an incident that happened to me personally only recently. I was issued with a visa to enter an outlie of Indonesia. It was issued by the Indonesian Ambassador at the Embassy here in Canberra, I assume, with the approval of the Foreign Affairs Department in Jakarta. When I landed at the airport in the outlies of Indonesia, the major- he appeared to be a major; he was wearing a military uniform and he seemed to have the badges of rank of an Indonesian major- looked at my visa and decided that it was not good enough. Having paid $300 to get into that particular airport for the purpose of seeing some friends of mine, I was locked in a room for 25 minutes and then put back on the aircraft and sent back to the place from which I took off. At least in Australia an Indonesian who finds he has something wrong with his visa when he arrives here would be given an opportunity to appeal for habeas corpus or something of that nature in order to try to establish some sort of right. But when one is dealing with the Indonesians, one is dealing with people who have a cast of mind which is totally different from that which we normally expect when we are dealing with other people. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKCorruption takes many forms. I go on to make the observation that at the moment the Government of Australia is dealing with a situation and a stream of events of which it has been the inheritor. I am not saying that in any spirit of maliciousness, and I should be grateful if honourable senators would understand that. Some honourable senators will recall that when I was sitting where  Senator Primmer  is sitting, or just behind that position, a couple of years ago on two occasions I asked whether the heads of agreement of a conversation between the Prime Minister of Australia and the  President  of Indonesia would be made available for perusal by the Parliament. Two conversations took place, one in Jakarta and one in Townsville. 
The present Government, for reasons which it considers appropriate -it has given the reasonshas refused to table these documents. But whatever the reasons, I have a strong suspicion- I do not think any honourable senator can come to any other conclusion- that the Indonesian Government was given some sort of tacit if not overt encouragement to invade Portuguese East Timor. That is the situation with which the Government is attempting to deal at the present moment. It is attempting to sweep up the debris left as a result of actions taken before it came to power. I believe the Government is attempting to do this in one of three ways. 
Firstly, it is attempting to do that by asking for the co-operation of the United Nations. Any one with any sense knows that the United Nations will not be moved if it does not want to be moved. More pious resolutions are passed in the United Nations than are passed here from time to time. In fact, the United Nations, both in the General Assembly and sometimes in the Security Council, goes through the process of making declarations, hoping to goodness that nobody will press for those declarations to be fulfilled. In the reality of the Indonesian situation the United Nations has made no true attempt to impose its will in the context of East Timor.  Senator Gietzelt  quite rightly pointed out that the United Nations moved with great speed as a result of the events which took place in southern Lebanon. Of course it did. But so many people and nations were interested. Even the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Security Council were interested. They know, as was pointed out in a report of a committee on which I have the honour to serve with  Senator Wheeldon,  that the central Middle East is the focal point of world conflict. Therefore, they were quite willing to move in the context of the Middle East situation because there was the danger of creating world conflagration. 
Of course, this is not true of Indonesia. It is a long way from the major powers, so they are not interested. The United Nations is really and truthfully not interested in the East Timor situation. It hopes that it will go away and be forgotten. Unless someone keeps nagging at the United Nations it will keep pushing that situation to the bottom of the agenda as governments, whatever their nature, have a habit of doing here when they get matters on their plate which they do not like. Let us be practical about the situation. The United Nations is not a source from which we can hope to obtain some rational thought in Indonesia, in both humanitarian and legal terms. 
The second operation is whether Australia, without the aid of the United Nations- time and time again it has attempted to get the United Nations to do something- can force its will on Indonesia. I say in most categorical terms that this is a very difficult task. Indonesia has been a source of deep problems to Australia since 1945. For example, we had the problems of the forceful seizure of what is now known as West Irian. Indonesia put up some specious claim that it had inherited the rights from the Dutch to Papua New Guinea. The United Nations insisted on a plebiscite to show whether the people of West Irian wanted to be incorporated into the Indonesian empire. If honourable senators care to look at what took place in relation to that plebiscite they will see that it was the most monstrous charade which has ever been carried out in the history of the United Nations. Then the ambitions of Indonesia spread to North Borneo or Kalimantan as Indonesia called it. In 1963 I was in the Rajang River area where an Australian battalion was fighting to keep the Indonesians out of the place. The Indonesians are a very difficult people. So the answer to the question of how to enforce one 's will on the Indonesians is to attack them, that is, to involve oneself in a war situation. One has to create the situation which is known in international terms as casus belli. I am sure that no honourable senator wishes to find Australia involved in a war situation with Indonesia over East Timor, or is there? That is not a rhetorical question. I shall answer it myself. No honourable senator nor any honourable member in the other place will ever contemplate that Australia should exert military force in order to try to enforce its will on Indonesia. 
So we are left with the third alternative, unhappy as it may seem and ineffective as it may appear. We must try to develop the best relations we can with the Government in Jakarta in order to persuade it to try to solve this problem and to create circumstances, in a distressful situation to which  Senator Kilgariff  has referred, so that the people in East Timor can be given relief and comfort through advanced Western medicine and provided with help such as food and rehabilitation. If the Indonesian Government will not allow the Australian Government to do this, or the United Nations to do it, as it refuses to do, then these unfortunate people will live in a state of misery until such time as someone persuades, by some means, the Indonesian Government to allow nations interested in humanitarian methods and considerations to help in the rehabilitation of East Timor. 
It is unfair, to say the least, for honourable senators opposite to say that there is no interest in this matter. I happen to have been the  Chairman  of the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for the last two years. Any honourable senator opposite who sits on that Committee, including for example  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Bishop,  will known that time after time, with the help of the Department of Foreign Affairs which will willingly concede this, we have had men before the Committee who have actually been in Timor, who know the background of Indonesia's attitude and who know what has been happening in East and West Timor. These men have answered questions. Hour after hour has been spent by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs looking at the Timorese problem. It is a problem. Everybody, whether he be on this side or the other side of politics, recognises that. The problem concerning the Government is how to solve the problem. The problem must concern the Senate. The answer, conclusively, is that we cannot help the East Timorese people to whom we owe a debt. I remember when two independent companies were sent into Timor early in the Pacific war.  Senator Carrick  will probably remember that because I think he was a member of that force. 
The fact is that we are not going to be in a position to resolve the humanitarian sense of guilt, if you like, or act in accordance with the humanitarian morality which has manifested itself in this Parliament towards the East Timorese unless we can persuade the Indonesian Government of our good faith. I abhor the sort of statements made by Adam Malik such as, for example, that he would call out mobs to demonstrate in front of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta. That is one of the curiosities of these volatile nations, the newly emerged group of 77 nations which masquerade at their conference in Colombo under the title of the non-aligned countries. These are volatile nations. One of the examples of the volatile nature of these nations is that a mob can be hired whenever one wants. I suggest therefore that we should keep our cool. We should allow our people to manage as best they can and thus enable the Australian Government to influence beneficially the interests of the people of East Timor. 
-by leave-1 move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he is aware that in any inquiry directed to the Legal Aid Commission in Melbourne for applications for legal aid forms in the last week the applicant has received the response that no legal aid forms are available from the Commission and it is not known when they will be available. The consequences of this appear to be that applicants are not in a position to apply for legal aid in Victoria. Is the Minister aware of that situation? What is being done about it and what steps are being taken to rectify it? When will some information be available? 
My question, too, is directed to the Attorney-General and I preface it by saying that I and, I assume, many other senators have had representations from bodies such as the Australian Copyright Council and the Victorian Council for Handicapped Readers pressing for reform of the copyright law in Australia, particularly as it relates to reprographic reproduction or photocopying. When does the Government intend to take action upon the report of the Franki Committee which was tabled here on 9 December 1976? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Under what conditions is the secondary allowance benefit for students in years 1 1 and 12 of school payable to students who are living independently of their parents? I further ask: Were the provisions regarding this allowance changed early in 1978? What changes were made and why? How many applications are currently pending consideration by the Department in Canberra? When will they be dealt with? 
I think that this is an example of co-operation between the two Houses of Parliament. Some of those amendments which have been tidied up by the House of Representatives were in fact moved in this chamber. There was some lengthy discussion about them, as I recall it. We are very happy with the technical tidying up that has been done. 
I have been provoked by  Senator Baume  to make just a very brief contribution to the debate on the report of the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings. I agree very much with many of the things that  Senator Baume  has said and I understand that members of my Party, such as  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who have been members of the Committee have expressed somewhat similar views. What I find most lacking in report is that it is assumed as a matter of desirability in the interests of the listening public that if there is an opportunity to broadcast parliamentary debates, it should be taken up by the Parliament itself; that listeners will in some way be gratified by that decision; that the process of parliamentary democracy in Australia will be better understood; and the cause of the Parliament will be advanced by increasing the hours of broadcasting. 
It is interesting that that is a criterion which we do not apply to any other form of programming. The first questions which are asked in relation to television programming and radio programming are: What is the audience reaction; what is the audience need; what does the audience want? It really is quite extraordinary that a report of a committee of this Parliament should decide in relation to the House of Representatives to extend the hours of parliamentary broadcasting without any reference to those questions which are the normal criteria by which broadcasting performance is judged. 
-Senator Brown used the word consumer. Of course that is the normal thing. I should have thought that the Parliament would in fact have been much better served if there was a limitation on the hours of parliamentary broadcasting and a much greater concentration than at present on issues of fundamental importance which the Parliament does debate. 
It would be editing which has not bothered the House of Commons at Westminster. They seem to be capable of doing so on a bipartisan basis with a degree of maturity which I am sure,  Senator Baume,  we could arrive at after many years of discussion. It is an extraordinary omission from the report and I am grateful to see that the Senate, through the Senators on the Committee- perhaps  Senator Baume  is doing the right thing for the wrong reason- is asserting its independence of the view taken by the House of Representatives on this matter. I hope that we will have an opportunity further to consider this question, particularly in relation to the very nature of the sorts of issues which are discussed in the course of the adjournment debate. If one really thinks about who might listen to the radio at 11 p.m. or 11.30 p.m. at night, there is always the example of the mythical shift worker who rushes home from his shift in order to turn on Parliament. Quite apart from him - 
-There are Western Australians who might be - 
Western Australians would, of course, have the competition of the very vital media in Western Australia. That might be a source of competition to the broadcasting of Parliament. One wonders who would be listening to a broadcast of this kind at 1 1 p.m. or 11.30 p.m., particularly when one considers the generally parochial nature of issues which are raised here. I can recall that from time to time on odd occasions  Senator McLaren  has raised one or two matters relating to situations at Murray Bridge or somewhere else. 
I know they are,  Senator. The  point I am making is that while all honourable senators do that, in terms of the broad listening audience, they are probably of less widespread interest than we might anticipate. I welcome the remark made by  Senator Baume  and I support the observation he has made. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask whether he has an answer to a question I asked 10 days ago, about which he undertook to seek advice from his colleague, relating to the amount of territory in East Timor which is under the control of Indonesian forces. I further ask whether the Government has any independent source of information on this question other than the Indonesian Government. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President,  in your capacity as Presiding Officer. I refer to your statement made shortly before Question Time about the fire in the Parliamentary Library. Is it a fact, as reported, that the Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade was delayed in its entry into Parliament House because its members did not have security passes? 
I moved on the previous occasion that the Senate take note of these papers, and I did it for the very obvious reason that I believed the Senate should take note of them. I do not wish to delay the Senate today with a detailed discussion of these two papers because in some ways events have intervened since I moved that motion a few weeks ago. However, I think it is appropriate to record the vastly increased contribution by the Commonwealth to educational expenditure on schools in the past few years and the results of that increased expenditure, which are revealed in the most recent report of the Schools Commission. Baldly stated, the consequence is that there has been a considerably improved standard in all Australian schools, both government and non-government, as a result of that Commonwealth involvement. It is important to recognise, wherever the debate may lead in relation to the qualitative issues in education, that that is a fact which has emerged and which suggests that, in terms of the States Grants (Schools) Acts, the result has been a marked improvement for schools in this country. 
The only other thing I wish to add is to remind the Senate that that increased effort in terms of expenditure by the Commonwealth has had a fascinating and salutary effect in relation to government expenditure generally on schools. There has been an indefinable and elusively explained response by State governments to the initiatives of the Commonwealth Government in school expenditure. That has been a contributing factor to the improved standards to which the Schools Commission has referred. As I said, I think it is important that we record these matters in the Senate. I have no further observations to make at this stage. 
-The Opposition welcomes the publication of the Schools Commission report for 1979-81. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his concluding remarks referred to the desirability of all honourable senators taking note of the details of the report and considering the issues raised by the Schools Commission in its recommendations. I join with him in making that commendation to the Senate because the report is complex and difficult, but it has in it recommendations which are of fundamental concern to the future of education in this country. 
In his statement the Minister has dealt with some of the issues raised in this report. He has drawn attention to the Government's anxiety to have a full understanding of the implications of the recommendations in the report and of the public reaction to those recommendations. I think that everyone concerned with education would welcome having the same opportunity to consider the report as the Minister suggests to honourable senators, because in the Opposition's view it is essentially a very responsible and comprehensive report which makes a quite valiant effort to grapple with some of the difficult problems inherent in the development of education in Australian schools. I note, as the Minister did in his statement, that the Schools Commission suggested a discussion period lasting until July. The Commission has indicated its intention also to publish what I think is referred to as a Green Paper relating to some of the fundamental issues involved in the funding of government and nongovernment schools. As the report states, it deals with:  fundamental issues and fundamental considerations relating to standards, needs and the responsibilities which ought to be undertaken by those currently involved in providing necessary resources for schools. 
I should add to that statement that again the report displays the commendable concern of the Schools Commission for the interest of pupils in both government and non-government schools. 
I will single out one or two specific matters in the report upon which I wish to comment at this stage, subject to the over-riding concern which I think both the Government and the Opposition share for a close study of all concerned parties of the contents of the report. Some of those specific points are: The report notes a significant improvement in the standards of all schools since the development of the first Schools Commission program. I mention that because I believe it is an important fact to record. In the sometimes complex and irrational debate which takes place about education in the community at large, there are ill-informed assertions to the contrary. Toying with the truth to assert that only government schools have done well out of Schools Commission funding does not enhance the quality of the debate on education in this country. Secondly, I draw attention to the fact that the Minister in his statement refers to guidelines. The Commission, at the conclusion of its introduction to this report, had this to say: 
The Commission hopes that the Government will take decisions on the funding for the 1979-81 triennium on the financial proposals in this report (which are stated in December 1977 price levels and anticipate continuation of current indexation principles) without the need for further separate funding guidelines. 
I mention that because, in a sense, the two statements throw into sharp relief the respective roles of the Schools Commission and the Government and highlight questions of responsibility in relation to education. The Schools Commission responsibility is in terms of its charter to the children of Australia. The Government's responsibilities are readily conceded as being wider than that. Of course, it is the prerogative of the Government to consider spending in all areas of Government endeavour within the context of its overall economic strategy. But I point out to the Minister that, in exercising that prerogative, the Government is put on notice by the recommendations of this report. If it ignores them it runs the risk of lowering educational standards in Australian schools and the very real possibility of engendering again into the Australian community a divisive debate about education in government and non-government schools, a debate which plagued this country until 1973. 
-Senator Withers laughs, but does not read. 
I am very interested in the Minister's selective recall of events gone by. We can debate that at a later time if he likes. At Question Time on Tuesday the Minister said that he could not recall something that happened in 1975, a memorable admission if I may say so. A third point I make is that the Opposition's policy on this matter is fundamentally based on the needs principle. All Australian children have a right to an education of the highest standard and until all schools are up to that standard we should concentrate on the poorer schools, whether they be Catholic schools or State schools. 
A fourth factor which is constantly a source of public discussion in the Australian community is the quality of education in Australian schools. Everyone who is interested in education expresses a concern about quality. It is something which in a sense cannot be quantified and about which there is much conceptual illusiveness. I should mention this in the context of the report because in some matters which may very well properly relate to the quality of education, mainly concerning the roles and functions of schools, their committees, their staffs and so on, the Commission's report embarks on some new and perhaps in a sense speculative suggestions about guidelines for the development of procedures in schools which perhaps will do something to alleviate the apparent confusion which exists because of changes which have taken place and which are taking place. I emphasise the concern of the report throughout by implication with the question of education quality. The Government, in the statement made by the Minister, has set out the basis of the Government's education policy. On the seventh page of his statement, the Minister for Education gives what he purports to be a summation of the Government's position. He said: 
Our objectives for Australian school children include the widening of educational opportunity with discrimination in favour of disadvantaged groups; maintaining and pursuing educational quality and excellence; and encouraging choice and diversity in schooling. 
That is an exemplary statement of aim but one which still leaves certain doubts about what the Government's intentions are, doubts which are not present in the Schools Commission report because the priorities which the Commission has are quite clearly spelt out. We would welcome in due course a statement from the Minister perhaps making more explicit the intentions which are spelt out in that paragraph which I read from the Minister's statement. I say that because in the Governor-General 's Speech this year it is stated, on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that from now on this would be a Government for all Australians, for the majority and for the minority. The Opposition sees it as the task of both the Government and the Opposition in the Senate to examine the question of school funding in the light of that statement in the Governor-General 's Speech. 
We are concerned that old divisive issues should not be re-opened, that in educational policy the injunction of the Prime Minister should be taken into account and that the welfare and good of the majority of children- those in government and poorer parochial schoolsshould be considered as a prime issue. What we fear is that a situation could arise from the Government's response to this report which is not consistent with that statement of good intention. We fear that that situation could arise, not so much because the Minister said anything in his statement which would concern about that, but because of the Government's direction last year to the Schools Commission to work towards a basic 20 per cent grant per pupil in all schools- I emphasise this- including those whose resources are well in excess of standard State costs. As a result of this, the Commission has felt obliged to adopt in this report 20 per cent as the basic level of grants. This would be all very well if we had a situation of buoyant economic growth. But that is not so. The position is dependent to that extent upon what rate of growth the Government adopts to determine whether we will be in a situation in which potentially large transfers from government to non-government school could be needed. If that happened, the Opposition believes that it would be divisive and it would oppose it in principle. If the Government were mindful at a later stage to send guidelines back to the Commission asking, in effect, for a resolution of the policy with the growth proposals, the Commission at least should be free, as an independent assessor, to reconcile the growth proposals in whatever way it can, consistent with what it sees as the priorities. 
It should be noted also that the Government guidelines of last year to the Schools Commission force it into a position of using money which could have gone to needy schools to be used for schools which are in most cases above the States school standard. Although the numbers are not great the principle is there. The money which will be used to bring Level 1 schools, the wealthier schools in Australia, from 14 per cent of state school costs to 20 per cent could have gone to Level 6 schools in the private sector, the non-government sector. They, of course, are largely the poorer Catholic parochial schools which need it more. So, it is not only state schools which are being squeezed by the Government in this sense but also the poorer Catholic schools. Such schools quite understandably are concerned about a number of matters. They are worried about the maintenance of effort. They are under stress, in trying to extend their systems to growth areas and to make up for the loss of religious teachers on their staffs. They should be aware of the Government's attitude towards them, which, in fact, amounts to discrimination in favour of the wealthy. 
It should be noted from the Schools Commission report that the number of Level 1 schools going from 14 per cent to 20 per cent of state school costs is greater than the number of schools going from 33 per cent to 40 per cent of state school costs. The Commission has felt it incumbent upon it to recommend that in its report. If there is any question of guidelines contrary to the wishes of the Schools Commission, if there is an imposition by the Government of guidelines, responsibility for the outcome of the final reconciliation should clearly lie where it falls- with the Government. The Opposition believes that the Schools Commission acted responsibly also in holding standard state school costs. There is a matter here which I would like to elucidate from the Schools Commission and from the report in relation to the Schools Commission estimate of sufficient funding being available to hold those standard costs, given present input. Subject to that qualification, it seems to us to be a very responsible and statesmanlike attempt by the Schools Commission to settle on the three sources of funding in schools and to settle again a potentially difficult and divisive question. 
There are one or two other matters in the report which should be mentioned. The first of those is the question of a number of specific proposals made imaginatively by the Commission in relation to migrant education and schools which are disadvantaged because they are in the country. There is no doubt that country areas are still disadvantaged in a major way in regard to education and that the position has been made worse by unemployment in rural areas. Once again, it is the Government's responsibility if money is, in effect, forced away from the program recommended by the Commission. The Government has to accept responsibility for that decision. The report also contains an important chapter on the question of capital expenditure for schools. I am not able to go into the details of this at the moment but I point out that there is a very interesting and significant discussion of needs in the capital area contained in this report. 
The Minister pointed out also that there is a minority report. One need make only a preliminary appraisal of the report to see that it talks of assessing output of schools as distinct from input. It talks in terms of cost benefit analysis. It indulges in a somewhat doubtful analysis of the terms of the Schools Commission Act. Throughout, it seems to be predicated by a somewhat divisive assumption of the desirability of increased government funding for private schools without private effort and with no accountability. There are many important issues involved in the minority report, but a preliminary reading of it suggests that the author walks where angels fear to tread. 
I have said that this is a comprehensive and difficult report. It discusses a number of complex issues and lays open the way for further discussion in the community and for further discussion by the Commission on some of the fundamental issues which the report raises. We commend that suggested process of discussion. We share the Government's view to this extent: We commend to honourable senators a close study of the report. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) How many students receive the full tertiary education assistance allowance at present. 
Are there special circumstances whereby persons undertaking second degree courses receive the full tertiary education assistance allowance; if so, what are those special circumstances. 
If the above applies, how many students at present receive the full tertiary education assistance allowance for undertaking second degree courses. 
How many students, since January 1976, have been denied the full tertiary education assistance allowance for the purpose of undertaking a second degree course. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 April 1 978: 
1 ) Has any decision been made on what information is to be collected in the 1981 Census. 
Is the Census to be modified in terms of the amount of information which it seeks. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I remind the Minister of recent statements by the Prime Minister to the effect that it is the responsibility of the business community to get the economy moving again and I refer the Minister to reports that the Special Youth Employment Training Scheme is becoming increasingly susceptible to abuse by companies. I ask: Is it a fact that employers are misusing the scheme by retrenching young people when the six months subsidised training period ends and replacing them with other people? What information does the Minister have in his possession regarding this practice? What does the Government propose to do to make it more difficult for employers to abuse this system? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) How many graduates of Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and Technical Colleges, respectively, are at present employed by the Commonwealth Public Service. 
What is the proportion of graduates of Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and Technical Colleges, respectively, of the total number of persons employed by the Commonwealth Public Service. 
How many Graduate Clerks have been employed by the Commonwealth Public Service in each year since 1 972. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: To which organisations or types of organisation has the Minister written to invite comment on the Schools Commission report for the 1979-81 triennium? I note that today is the final day for the receipt of submissions. When will the guidelines for the triennium be issued to the Commission? Will those guidelines be made public at the same time? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services in his dual capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports that contracts have been let in the United States for the establishment of a ground station for the United States defence satellite communications system. I ask the Minister: Is this correct? If so, has the Government been informed of this? Is it the intention of the Government to inform Parliament of the details of this matter and will legislation be introduced to authorise such activities? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to the question I asked yesterday about the establishment of a United States defence satellite communications system in the north of Western Australia. I now ask the Minister: Is not this a matter which concerns the national sovereignty of this country and a matter which should appropriately have been reported by the Government to this Parliament? Is it right that Australian citizens should first find out about the establishment of such a satellite communications system by reference to a United States congressional committee rather than from a statement made in the Australian Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Has the Department of Education made any predictions as to what funds will be spent on teaching staff in the future, in view of the Minister's prediction that there will be a surplus of teachers by 1985; if so, what are those predictions. 
Has the Department of Education set priorities as to which particular areas in education will be staffed in the future; if so, what are those priorities. 
Will the Minister be considering the appointment of a person, with expertise in matters relating to education for ethnic groups, to the proposed National Inquiry into all aspects of teacher training; ifnot, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Government accept a tender to supply condoms to the Australian Army at a cost of $ 1 3, 150, as notified in the Commonwealth Gazette of 21 February 1978. 
Will the Minister ensure that none of this equipment is issued to soldiers serving in Queensland without the prior consent of the Premier. 
I raise a point of order.  Senator Jessop  raised the same point of order earlier in the evening. The remarks that he is currently making are irrelevant to the subject of the debate.  Senator Mulvihill  's drinking habits have nothing to do with radiation hazards. I consider these remarks irrelevant. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
How much did the Commonwealth Government spend on the provision of migrant education television services in the financial year 1 976-77. 
What were the original procedures initiated by the Commonwealth Government to fund migrant education television services. 
Has any cost-benefit analysis been carried out in connection with the Migrant Education Television Scheme; if so, what are the results. 
What persons within the public service are responsible for the administration of the scheme. 
What persons outside the public service are responsible for the administration of the scheme. 
What is the administrative framework of the scheme. 
Has any consultation taken place between: (a) the Commonwealth Government and ethnic organisations throughout Australia; (b) the administrators of the Migrant Education Television Scheme and ethnic organisations throughout Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services in his capacity as Minister representing both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to questions that I asked him on Monday and on Tuesday regarding the establishment of a defence communications satellite ground station at North- West Cape. I remind the Minister that his answer on Monday was that he did not know and his answer on Tuesday was that I should not get excited. He said further on Tuesday that it was a facility similar to the one which operated there before and that it has now been reactivated. I now ask the Minister: Is that correct? Is it not a completely new facility? Is the facility related to naval communications? Is it covered by the Pine Gap agreement? 
-The Senate is debating the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. Listening to  Senator Collard  speaking on the subject I had the feeling that somebody had given him a drink. There was an awful degree of heady excitment about the whole thing as he contemplated the glorious future which he was painting. I am surprised and disappointed that he has not seen fit to give evidence to the United States Congressional Committee which has expressed its concern, for example, about the establishment of a nuclear reactor in the Philippines. If  Senator Collard  gave evidence to that committe it would fold up. No longer would there be any reason for it to have doubts, feelings of insecurity or fears about the establishment of a nuclear reactor in the Philippines. 
I am surprised that  Senator Collard  did not give evidence to the Fox inquiry. It is quite clear on the basis of what he has said that he has not read the conclusions of  Mr Justice  Fox.  Mr Justice  Fox would not have felt the need to utter any warnings about the development of uranium mining in Australia if he had had the benefit of  Senator Collard  's views on the subject. I am also interested in the optimistic scientific views which  Senator Collard  put forward, as I said before, in an atmosphere of heady excitement. 
At one stage he said it was science fiction. But listening to  Senator Collard  I was reminded of the remark of a great physicist, other than  Senator Collard,  and that was the great British physicist Lord Rutherford. Lord Rutherford commented that no scientific theory was worthwhile unless it could be explained to a barmaid.  Senator Collard  was singularly unsuccessful in explaining his theory to me. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

If Government supporters will restrain their apres-dinner excitement I will finish what I was saying. I am, of course, much more humble that the sort of barmaid Lord Rutherford was thinking of. That point should be taken into account by somebody like  Senator Collard  when he is addressing the Senate and particularly the Opposition in the Senate. 
-I said earlier that I thought somebody had given the honourable senator a drink; clearly it was not a barmaid. I will be pleased to introduce the honourable senator to a barmaid if I have the opportunity at some later stage. 
The two Bills before the Senate are designed to facilitate the uranium mining industry in Australia. It is no secret that the Opposition opposes uranium mining and opposes both Bills. The basic reason for that opposition to uranium mining is a commitment in the context of inadequate safeguards. Everything we have said on this subject over many months now has been confirmed by a variety of reports from overseas relating to the sort of concern which the Opposition has had from the beginning of this debate. That concern was not absolved by the publication of the glossy folder of pamphlets with which honourable senators and members of the public were provided last year and it is not absolved by the sort of legislation which is now before the Parliament. 
I shall refer to a number of other reasons why the Opposition is opposed to this legislation. Firstly, let me draw the attention of Government supporters to one reason which is relevant in the current context. In the Senate, government supporters get a great deal of satisfaction from explaining to us in great detail the virtues of the so-called new federalism policy and the way in which co-operation with the States is handled by the Fraser Government. The reality of new federalism in operation, as we all know now, is that if the Premier of Queensland stands the Federal Government up on a particular matter in which the Government has not only constitutional power but also constitutional obligations- like the question of Aurukun and Mornington Island- then the Government goes to water. That is new federalism in operation in that situation. 
The other situation in which we see the new federalism in operation is when the Government does not want to consult with the States or does not see fit to consult with the States or does not think it has time to consult with the States. Then no consultations take place. That is another aspect of the new federalism as it does not work. I do not need to be cited as an authority on that proposition, nor does anyone on this side of the House. One can refer to such eminent authorities on that matter as  Sir Charles  Court of Western Australia and  Mr Rupert  Hamer of Victoria. 
I want to refer to some particular provisions of the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978 that concern me and on which perhaps other honourable senators on this side of the House have not spoken in great detail. I shall just enumerate in simple form some of the objections that we have. First of all, it provides a right to mine. Secondly, we regard the Atomic Energy Act 1953 as being totally inappropriate to control commercial or civil uranium mining. The Atomic Energy Commission is an inappropriate body to be responsible for commercial uranium development. The second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry- the report of  Mr Justice  Fox which  Senator Collard  clearly has not read or has disposed of in his mind as being a totally irrelevant document- stated that the Atomic Energy Act 1953 should not be used for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. 
The Opposition believes that, in spite of that injunction from  Mr Justice  Fox, the Government wants to continue to use the Atomic Energy Act for two specific reasons. The first reason is that the Atomic Energy Act, which dates from 1953, contains specific provisions based on the defence power which will offer the Government a means of intimidating and suppressing public opposition to uranium mining. This in our view is a disreputable use of the Act. Secondly, we believe that the Government is seeking, by means of this vehicle, to have comprehensive control of uranium mining throughout the country and direct government involvement not only in uranium mining but also in other forms of mineral development. Those are some quite substantial and simply stated objections that we have to the use of the Atomic Energy Act as the vehicle for proceeding with commercial uranium mining in Australia. 
I point out that the Fox report objected to the use of the Atomic Energy Act on quite specific grounds. Firstly, as I have just said, the security provisions of the Act are inappropriate for a project with purely peaceful interests, and it is always said that this project is one with purely peaceful interests. The Inquiry regarded this Act as inappropriate to deal with that situation. I remind honourable senators again that the Atomic Energy Act is based on the defence power. Secondly, the Fox Commission of Inquiry said that there might be conflict between Aboriginal land rights and the provisions of this Act. That must be seen again in the context of the remarks made in the Fox report regarding the inappropriateness of the Atomic Energy Act for uranium mining for peaceful purposes. Thirdly, we believe that there could be a very real conflict of interest- the Fox Commission pointed this outbetween the entrepreneurial or commercial activities of the Atomic Energy Commission and its responsibilities under the Act to supervise local environmental protection measures. It is really only this sort of government, the Fraser Government, which could devise the sort of extraordinary situation- that extraordinary conflict of interest situation- of having a Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. That was the first extraordinary contradiction in which this Government got itself involved and it is not surprising that it is quite capable of doing the same thing in relation to uranium mining. The breathless haste with which  Senator Collard  delivered his speech tonight is typical of the Government's attitude to this whole problem. Of course there can be a very real conflict of interest. 
I am very interested in  Senator Jessop  's views and I am delighted that he was pleased with his colleague's efforts but I hope he will listen to what we have to say, too, because even he is capable sometimes of absorbing additional material. There is a very obvious and clearcut conflict of interest between an organisation or statutory body which is involved in commercial mining, and a body which is responsible for supervising local environmental protection issues. That is a clear conflict which the Fox Commission pointed out and which we again point out in this debate. The two interests just do not logically go together. They do not belong together. They represent different interests but are being administered by the one body. 
Those are the sorts of simple and fundamental objections which we have to the use of the Atomic Energy Act and to the Bill which is designed to amend that Act. If the conflict of interest situation to which I referred is to be resolved, there should be a separate statutory body responsible for the administration of nuclear safeguards. I again point to the fact that the Atomic Energy Act was designed for quite specific purposes- the political circumstances in 1 953, not the political circumstances in 1 978. 
I  shall turn briefly to the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978. The stated purpose of this Bill is 'to provide for a code of practice so that nuclear activities are effectively controlled throughout the country in the interests of health, safety and the environment'. That is a splendid purpose and if uranium mining is to take place nobody can properly object to that purpose. But it specifies 'in the interests of health, safety and the environment'. Of course the provisions of this Bill go far wider than questions of health, safety and the environment. Again, this legislation offends demonstrably against concepts of civil liberty and it offends grievously against this Government's professed interest, which has been continuing for a long time now, in freedom of information legislation. I suppose it is only nine months since I described that legislation as an anatomical freak, a gelding before it was born. Honourable senators on the Government side told me to wait until I saw their freedom of information legislation. I am still waiting. I have seen numerous Bills come before the Senate which show not the slightest reflection of an understanding of the concept of freedom of information and freedom of information legislation. This is yet another example. 
-Senator, I would not come in here after dinner and try to say the word irrelevant'. The honourable senator is not making a very good job of it. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  Before  I  was interrupted I was dealing with the provisions of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. I was seeking to make some of the same points about this legislation as I sought to make about the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. When I say that this legislation offends against civil rights- a matter in which  Senator Jessop  has now lost interest- I want to remind people like  Senator Jessop  of statements about this matter of civil liberties which were made in the Governor-General's Speech earlier this year. On 21 February, in delivering that Speech, the Governor-General said on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser): 
My Government will carry out a continuing programme of law reform, particularly with a view to protecting civil liberties and enhancing individual rights. Constant vigilance is required to ensure that the rights of individual citizens are not eroded or ignored. 
As I was saying a minute ago, the legislation before us does not reflect anything of that pious intention expressed in the Governor-General's Speech, as has been the case with a lot of legislation which has been before the Senate since that statement was made. For example, I argue that clause 13 of the Bill in question is quite offensive to any notion of civil liberties and is quite contrary to the high sounding phrases expressed in the Governor-General's Speech. I say that because under that clause a Minister can be authorised to take whatever action he considers necessary to control and eliminate hazards associated with a situation. 
What sort of action can a Minister take? It does not say? There is no definition of the expression 'the situation'. What are we expected to understand by the expression 'the situation'? If one looks at the clause in detail one sees that it provides that if the Government decides that a situation exists as a result of nuclear activity a Minister is given extremely wide powers to deal with that situation. The extent of those powers will vary according to a totally undefined situation. The powers could include powers of search, seizure and detention, control of buildings, control of property and the movement of people, control of employment, censorship of the media and things like telephone tapping, to give some examples which might be hypothetical but which might be real. 
I raise this in the context of this legislation because when we are dealing with a situation of a nuclear society the problems of civil liberties are vastly different from the sorts of problems of civil liberties which we have been used to in the past.  Senator Collard  can brush these issues off, but throughout the world people and governments are concerned about terrorism in relation to nuclear plants. They are concerned about theft in relation to nuclear plants. They are concerned about a whole range of possibilities which can arise because of the existence of a nuclear industry in particular countries. Of course, a whole range of questions can arise. Because that is so governments will more and more see fit to project remedies or methods of stopping those risks from arising and methods of dealing with a vast variety of hypothetical situations such as the ones to which I have referred. In the book entitled  Civil Liberties in the Nuclear Society  the author,  Mr Richard  Refshauge, had this to say: 
The security described by  Dr Flood  and  Mr Grove-White  (in their book,  Nuclear Prospects: a Comment qf the Individual, the State and Nuclear Power)  include very substantial vetting of individuals in the nuclear industry but also in the electric supply industry. Thus, many thousands of individuals, a large number of them in the non-government sector, would become objects of routine security service investigations into their 'political associations' and 'character defects', justified by the scale of the risk presented by possible sabotage or theft of fissionable material. Obviously, such vetting would err on the side of greater security and less individual freedom and the danger of a new  McArthyism  is real. Not only would individual privacy be invaded but job security and tenure would lie in the hands of the security service with little right of appeal or redress. 
We do not have to agree with that view, but we have to take it into account in considering the sort of legislation which will be introduced in a country like this- the sort of legislation which is now before the Parliament. We do not have to agree with Richard Refshauge 's view but for goodness' sake, we have to take it into account when we consider the sloppy drafting of some of the provisions contained in this Bill- the totally vague and uncertain clauses of this Bill, such as clause 13. 
It is sometimes said that the Australian Labor Party is inconsistent in some of these matters. I suppose all of us in politics from time to time appear to be that way. But if one looks at this situation of civil liberties in relation to defence legislation and legislation of that kind, one sees history of consistency going back through Labor Party attitudes to this type of legislation which was very well illustrated, I think, by the late  Dr Evatt  when he introduced the Approved Defence Projects Protection Bill in 1947. He said then that some of the groups who opposed the testing range project:   . . were moved by a desire to protect the Aborigines, and theirs was a perfectly legitimate argument to put forward. When the Bill is examined, it will be seen that scope for advancing opinions of that character in regard to defence projects - 
He was referring to defence projects and not commercial projects such as we are dealing with now-  will remain. Although freedom of information is vital, the Parliament cannot, and will not, tolerate attempts to prevent the carrying into execution of carefully-planned defence projects. 
Pacifists or persons who believe that there is a special duty to the Australian Aborigines when a work of this kind is contemplated might strongly advocate, at an early stage, the entire prevention of such a project. I do not believe that persons in that category should be made liable to criminal sanction without having regard to the circumstances. Even with respect to boycott, the question of reasonable cause or excuse seems to me to be one to guard against the application of the criminal law to borderline cases where it is not proper that the sanction should be applied. 
That was stated in relation to defence protection legislation. It is in sharp contrast to the attitude of this Government when one takes into account, as I have said, the Governor-General's Speech and the lofty words spoken in that Speech about civil liberties and the sorts of provisions contained in this Bill, such as clause 13 to which I have specifically referred. I might have referred also to clause 14 of the Bill, which allows the Government to suppress any information relating to the performance of companies or government agencies in meeting health, safety or environmental protection standards which are described in the legislation and will be specified in the codes of practice. One wonders why this provision is necessary. Surely people have a right to know whether companies and others involved in this operation are observing the standards which we are properly entitled to expect. 
The essential points which I have tried to make are simply these: The debate about the pros and cons of uranium mining and uranium export will go on. There will be differences of opinion within this society which we will have to face up to as legitimate differences of opinion. If we are to face up to that problem as a problem of a democratic pluralistic society and if we are to provide legislation which recognises the fact that we have the pretensions of belonging to a democratic pluralistic society- quite apart from  Senator Collard  's theories about the positive virtues of uranium mining and enrichment; the glorious nirvana which he painted for us- this Parliament has an obligation to ensure that the sorts of things which the Governor-General said are not merely empty rhetoric but that we in the Senate and in the other place believe in them. We must understand that the Parliament operates in a society in which there should be freedom of discussion and debate on these matters and that persons involved in that process of freedom of discussion and debate should not be subjected to the sort of pernicious powers which are available to the Government under the Atomic Energy Act and which will be available to the Government if the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill is passed. 
It was on those two specific points that I wanted to speak in this debate tonight. It is very important that those points be made, regardless of one's views about the development of the nuclear industry on the larger scale. I join with my colleagues on this side of the Senate in saying that both Bills should be rejected by the Senate because they are not worthy of a Parliament in a so-called democratic and pluralistic society. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to previous questions that I have asked him regarding the ground communications satellite system to be erected in the north-west of Western Australia in the year 1980, as we now understand it. Is that station called the H. E. Holt Communications Station? If so, which government, the United States Government or the Australian Government- or was it both governments- determined the name of this new station to be erected? Is the station to which I refer to be used for naval communications or wider communications in the defence area? 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
-1 move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper.  1 indicate my appreciation to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for making available a copy of the report. In spite of that I have not been able to read it because it is a lengthy and comprehensive report on an issue which has been agitating- I think that is the correct word- in the minds of many academics for some months past. I think the agitation probably developed considerably when the Birch report on the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation was published, a matter in respect of which I understand  Senator Webster  will later be introducing a statement. That report made a number of comments about study leave and research leave in the CSIRO. I congratulate the Minister on the procedure that he intends to adopt regarding this report. Clearly, it is important that academic institutions should have time to read the contents of it and make observations about it before any further decisions are made. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I support the amendment moved by my colleague, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  Before dealing with that amendment I wish to comment briefly upon the speech made by  Senator Kilgariff,  who singled out  Senator Haines  from the rest of us who oppose the legislation as a person who has an honest objection to uranium mining. I am sure  Senator Haines  has an honest objection to uranium mining, but I am not sure that  Senator Kilgariff  is in a position to speak about the rest of us.  Senator Kilgariff's  suggestion that the Australian Labor Party is somehow involved in an international conspiracy in relation to uranium mining exhibits a 1948ish mentality. As used to be suggested in the 1 940s, he seems to believe that the conspiracy probably originated in the Soviet Union. In the week's adjournment of the Senate I hope  Senator Kilgariff  will contemplate the fact that the Soviet Union has exactly the same policy on the mining, export and use of uranium as the Fraser Government has. I hope that will not put him in the position of turning handstands in Darwin during the week in which the Senate will not be sitting. I hope that when he comes back to the Senate he will explain his views on this conspiracy because I presumably am part of it and I certainly will have a week of grave worry and anticipation waiting to hear what  Senator Kilgariff  has to say on this matter. I would hate to be involved in anything as horrible as he has suggested. 
I join with  Senator Kilgariff  in congratulating  Senator Haines  and  Senator Wright  on their contributions to this debate. I particularly congratulate  Senator Wright.  If I might repeat in the Senate what 1 said to him in the passages of the Parliament the other day. I said in perhaps a rather roguish way: 'We will miss you'. I shall miss him for a lot of reasons, such as for the big grin he has on his face now. We will miss him also as a senator, for the very nature of the contribution he makes to debates, particularly his contributions about detailed clauses of Bills. I tend to agree with  Senator Wright's  view that the States should cede powers to the Commonwealth in relation to this matter. I ask him to be charitable in any future speeches he makes in the Senate during the next few weeks and concede that, although there might be only 10 senators in the chamber when he speaks, there are others outside listening to him. I should like to make the point that I particularly single out  Senator Haines  and  Senator Wright  for their thoughtful and important contributions to the debate. 
I support the amendment moved by the Opposition because, in our view, whether one accepts the view put by  Senator Wright  that the States should cede powers to the Commonwealth or whether one takes the view which I apprehend that Ministers of this Government take in pursuit of their new federalism policy, as an alternative to  Senator Wright's  view, there should have been further consultation with the States about very important matters in this legislation. 1 refer to clauses 12 and 14 of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, to which  Senator Wright  referred. One would have thought that there would have been much greater consultation with the States on these matters because clearly clause 14 in its present form is unworkable in terms of the rights of a citizen of a State. I suggest that there should have been more consultation because we in this Senate are all in the habit of referring to people on the other side of the chamber as honourable senators. The term honourable senators' seems to me to suggest that in being honourable, as we describe ourselves, we might have a degree of consistency in the sorts of attitudes we adopt towards the rights of the States and the rights of other governments in relation to the legislation we are considering. 
-I thought we had been through that debate. The honourable senator knows that the position of the Whitlam Government on uranium was subject to the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. It is quite clear that the position of the Fraser Government on uranium is not subject to the Fox inquiry because the conclusions of the Fox inquiry have been ignored in the two Bills which are now before the Senate. Be that as it may, the point I was concerned to make was that one would have thought that there would have been some degree of consistency in a Commonwealth government's attitude towards the States in relation to uranium mining- in relation to the development of the mining industry as a whole. 
It is very interesting to consider what some honourable senators from the Government side of the chamber said about this sort of legislation not so long ago. For example, we can consider what  Senator Missen  said on 9 April 1975 in discussing the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. He was then an Opposition senator. He is now a Government senator and presumably supports this legislation. One would have thought that he would be consistent with his 1975 attitude. He had this to say then: 
I am not concerned with what might be the intention of this Government or any future government, but once that power is given we no longer have any real control over the way in which governments operate. 
The honourable senator was referring to the power of regulation and he went on to state: 
I know that we have power to deal with regulations; they cun come back here and, in the mass of other things, we may get around to repealing them. On the other hand a lot of damage could bc done under those regulations. 
The honourable senator was making those comments about different legislation. But exactly the same comments could be made about the legislation now before the Senate. I wish to refer to the remarks of another honourable senator who I believe to be an honourable man. I refer to  Senator Carrick  who, of course, is the Minister for Education in the present Government. In dealing with the Atomic Energy (Prescribed Substances) Regulations on 19 September 1974 he had this to say: 
I support the motion for the disallowance of the regulations under the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1973. 1 do so for the reasons put forward by  Senator Durack.  I believe that without these regulations the Commonwealth Government has already ample powers to ensure the national interest in the exploration, conservation and orderly development of uranium. In addition, the States and the Territories have supplementary powers, and they can work in co-operation. 
There does not seem to have been terribly much co-operation in the mind or in the views of  Sir Charles  Court, as expressed in the telegram he sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  There does not seem to have been much cooperation seen by  Mr Ruben  Hamer in Victoria. There does not seem to have been much cooperation seen by any of the State Premiers in relation to this legislation. I hope that  Senator Carrick,  in the course of deciding and determining the weighty questions which we as senators determine in this House of review and in weighing the issues in the balance and deciding what is right and proper thing to do, will have regard to his opinion of 1975 when the wicked Labor Government which he so frequently refers to was in office. I hope that he will have regard to that as he remembers everything wicked that the Labor Government did to everything good that he was doing in those days and remind the Senate of it in the way that he votes in the Senate in 1978. In dealing with the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill,  Senator Carrick  was totally consistent in the attitude he adopted towards consultation with the States. On 23 July 1974, in dealing with another Bill concerning minerals.  Senator Carrick  had this to say: 
This is not a Bill to develop these things for the welfare of Australia. This is a Bill to take from our State governments all their existing powers over the resources in their States, all their vital need to obtain their finances from royalties, all their responsibilities for developing these things in an orchestration of State development and to give all those powers to a central government in Canberra. So I suggest that the true nature of the Bill needs to be looked at. 
Again, in weighing the facts in respect of this Bill, I hope that  Senator Carrick  will again take that weighty statement which he made in 1974 into account. I am sure that he will and, when we come to vote on this proposal moved by my colleague  Senator Wriedt,  I have no doubt that the honourable senator will have those factors in his mind. 
I refer also to what was said by  Senator Durack,  the Attorney-General and senior law officer of the Commonwealth of Australia. The Attorney-General is another honourable senator. On 19 September 1974, when dealing with the Atomic Energy (Prescribed Substances) Regulations,  Senator Durack  had this to say when summarising the views of the Opposition of 1974: 
In conclusion, I would like to summarise our argument. We believe that the regulations firstly are quite unnecessary. The Minister has the power to maintain Australia's national interest through his control powers in respect to export and other matters. These extra powers are apparently sought by the Minister Tor somewhat dubious purposes and they will have the effect of overriding all existing rights that have been acquired under the State laws and under the Northern Territory mining laws. We believe that for those reasons these regulations should be disallowed by the Senate. 

 Senator Webster is another honourable Minister in the present Government. He is another honourable senator who one would believe would be totally consistent in his attitude to these weighty issues of principle with which this Government is so concerned.  Senator Webster  had this to say when dealing with the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974: 
We are elected directly by the States to represent the States in this place. 
Some people might say that that is a Neanderthal view, but it is  Senator Webster's  view. 
Debate interrupted. 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Has the Cabinet, as reported in the newspapers last week, made a decision to approve the upgrading of the satellite communications facility at North West Cape? If so, was that decision made within the terms of the North West Cape Agreement? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Which Government Departments employ private security services for surveillance purposes. 
2 ) Which private security services are employed. 
What are the terms and conditions of the Federal Government's contracts with these private security services. 
What is the cost to the Government of employing private security services. 
) Why does the Government employ private services for security and surveillance purposes instead of the Commonwealth Police in some instances. 
Does the Government consider that private security services arc more adept at undertaking security surveillance than the Commonwealth Police in some instances, if so, why, if not, why are private services employed. 
-The Senate is debating the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1 978 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978. When the Senate adjourned on 1 1 May, I was speaking to the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Wriedt,  to the motion: 'That the Bills be now read a second time'. The amendment read as follows: 
Leave out all the words after 'That', insert 'the Bills be deferred and not proceeded with until after full and proper consultation with the States'. 
The point I was seeking to make then was that if the Senate sees itself, or members of the Senate see themselves, as representing States, or the Senate sees itself as a House of review, a golden opportunity is presented for it to act in that capacity in respect of these pieces of legislation. I was seeking to make the point that it would be strange if honourable senators on the other side somehow in the four years since legislation was introduced by the Labor Government had changed their basic views about the role of this chamber as a guardian of the interests of the States. I referred the Senate to former statements by a number of honourable ministers on the other side, who I presume are also honourable senators and honourable men in relation to this particular matter. When the debate was adjourned I was speaking especially about the views which had been expressed by  Senator Webster  in the debate of July 1974 on the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill. In opposing that legislation of the Labor Government  Senator Webster  made this statement, which honourable senators would have thought at the time was one of profound and lasting principle: 
We are elected directly by the States to represent the States in this place. We feel that the exercise of the right of the Commonwealth- or the Australian Government as it is now- to declare total control and then to pursue a section of legislation which seeks to declare how the organisation and regulation of control over submerged lands will be made, is abhorrent to a true and honourable senator. 
I repeat, 'abhorrent to a true and honourable senator', in July of 1974.  Senator Webster  continued: 
It is difficult for me to understand how Government senators can be so subject to the demands of their Ministers and perhaps the demands of their own Caucus that they completely override any reaction or any cry from the States on this most important matter. 
In case Government supporters have forgotten we are, in this month of 1 978, confronted with an almost identical situation in relation to the legislation now before the Senate. To use  Senator Webster's  phrase, there have been cries from the States, cries of anguish and pain, to which I will refer in a few moments. But of course, Senators Webster, Missen, Carrick, Durack and other senators to whom I have referred have a splendid array of company in this matter. 
I would ask the Senate to pay particular regard to the words of a man such as  Senator Webster.  After all, there can be no doubt that he attaches great importance to words. He probably uses more of them in the course of Question Time than all the rest of the Ministry put together. Those were his words in 1 974, in a situation that was almost identical to the one with which we are now confronted. 
The Ministers to whom I have referred were, of course, in 1974 ably supported by an array of talent and principle, if I might use those terms, on the back benches of the then Opposition. Principled statements were made at that time. For instance, I refer to the following statement on 10 April 1974 by  Senator Sim  in discussing the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill: 
But one of my main objections to this legislation is that it takes away from the States areas, which by right, are their responsibility. If the Senate has a major function it is that of protecting the powers of the States and not supporting legislation which diminishes those powers or takes them away altogether. 
That is a view with which the Premier of the State of Western Australia, which  Senator Sim  represents, emphatically endorsed in telegrams which he has sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the last few weeks. If one turns to other talent on the Government back benches, taking for example two younger and more promising senators, if one may use those terms - 
I meant no insult to  Senator Sim.  These senators have been here for a shorter time and, one would hope, would have a longer future here. I refer to Senators Townley and Jessop. The Senate will recall that in 1974 

 Senator Townley was an independent senator of this chamber, but subsequently became a Liberal. In a sense, if one talks about the senator as a politician, one might not unfairly describe him as a true professional. If one were thinking of him in a military context he might be described as a mercenary, because he came here as an independent and subsequently became a Liberal. Others have described him as a hit man for the Tasmanian conservatives, a political equivalent of a hired gun, and a deadly accurate politician. All these descriptions can be used in speaking of  Senator Townley  and are important in the context of what he was saying, in the sense of what he was saying as an independent rather than a Liberal senator in 1974. He said that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill was unfair in that-- 
. it gives the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  enormous powers. I repeat that it is a danger to my State of Tasmania. I cannot support the Bill. 
He went on to make remarks similar to those made by  Senator Sim  in exactly the same sort of context. Another senator who made similar statements is  Senator Jessop.  He is a younger South Australian senator who in this chamber persistently upholds the rights of State governments other than his own, and has made a number of contributions to debates on this subject. In a particularly scintillating contribution on the atomic energy legislation the other night he drew a fascinating analogy between the radioactive hazards of a nuclear industry and a glass of wine. It seemed to me to be an extraordinary contribution from a South Australian senator, conscious as he might be of the importance of the wine industry in that State and the damage that could be done to it by that sort of suggestion. He is a man who quite laughingly dismisses the fears of many experts and thousands and thousands of other people in this country about the dangers of nuclear power. He expressed himself in these precise terms: 
We on this side of the House are concerned about the rights of the States. We are determined that the States should be protected against the centralist policies of this socialist Government. 
-Great rhetoric,  Senator Young,  I am sure you said that sort of thing too. We will come to you later.  Senator Jessop  continued: 
That is why we are concerned about this Bill. I am convinced that it is designed to place more and more authority in the hands of the centralist government. 
Those could equally have been the words of  Sir Charles  Court, or of  Mr Hamer  in Victoria-- 
-Or of a number of other premiers and leaders, as  Senator Missen  rightly points out. The two senators to whom I have referred have expressed very similar sorts of views about the same specific problem. The other senator on the back bench in a different category and again from a different State to whom I wanted to refer was  Senator Wood.  From where we sit on this side of the chamber I might say with the greatest respect that the honourable senator's integrity on these matters shines across the chamber like a translucent opal.  Senator Wood,  who at this point of his career has an immense experience in the Liberal Party, will not be here after 30 June this year. He is a man who, if I can say so respectfully again, was a bikie long before Malcolm Fraser made it fashionable, a man who has displayed a great deal of knowledge and understanding of the Liberal Party. For example, only two or three weeks ago very quickly and I think acutely at Question Time in this chamber he displayed a degree of political sagacity when he instantly saw the connection between the purchase of VIP aircraft by the Fraser Government and the unfortuante business of the use of VIP aircraft in the days when  Senator Gorton  was the then Minister and when  Mr Holt  was Prime Minister. He was concerned in that series of questions to expose the hypocrisy of the Government on that issue. For that reason I would like to refer to what  Senator Wood  said on this very subject of protecting the interests of the States in general and the interests of his own State of Queensland in particular, remarks which I am sure would be echoed by his own Premier in another context.  Senator Wood  in dealing with the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill (No. 2) in November 1973 said: 
I think that this legislation is an indication of the Federal Government trying to reduce the power and the rights of the States and it is an attempt to build the Federal Parliament into a much greater structure at the expense of the States. 1 feel that this chamber owes its existence to the fact that the States would not accept the setting up of a Commonwealth Parliament until such time as it included a chamber in which they had equal voting rights, as is the situation in the Senate. 

 Senator Wood said that quite clearly in 1 973. I conceive it to be a statement of lasting principle. When he as a senator weighs in the balance the issues we are now debating I put it to him quite sincerely that it would be very hard for him to depart from that very clearly and succinctly stated principle to which he gave voice in 1 973. 
That is precisely what I was guessing at and I appreciate that. I put it to the honourable senator that the situation in 1 978 is totally the same as the situation with which he was confronted and about which he spoke in 1973; 'meaning it' as he just said. That suggests that in the balance on this issue there is only one course of action which he as an honourable senator can follow. 
I have referred to a sprinkling of back bench senators who supported a clutch of Ministers who expressed similar views with candour, various degrees of integrity and principle and certainly with varying degrees of intensity. There are, of course, two other Ministers I should mentionI have mentioned the whole of the honourable ministry on this issue except  Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Withers.  Of course, we must not forget  Senator Withers.  I have not mentioned  Senator Guilfoyle  because strange as it may seem I would not like to put her in the same category as other senators I have mentioned who may for some reason be persuaded by or be under the influence of, one might say, the heady arguments of  Senator Jessop,  for example, to adopt a different course in 1978 to the course they adopted in 1 974. 1 propose not to say anything about  Senator Guilfoyle  in this context because quite simply the age of chivalry is not dead. Quite apart from that, there was absolutely no statement by her which I could find on this subject in 1974. 
That is not so with  Senator Withers-  now the Rt  Hon. Senator Withers-  who has always put forward very forthright views in this chamber on the sorts of matters about which I have been talking. Before I mention what  Senator Withers  had to say about this subject I must confess that I have made statements in the Senate in recent times that might give people the impression that I am not an unstinting admirer of  Senator Withers  in everything he does. I want to make it quite clear that in a sense I must plead guilty to making equivocal statements of that kind. When I was first in the Senate in 1975 I must confess-- 
-Do not get excited. 
If I can rephrase what I was saying for the benefit of  Senator Baume,  when I was first in the Senate as a new senator participating in these sorts of debates in 1 975 I remember having a degree of scepticism about  Senator Withers.  I felt it was strange that even a party like the Liberal Party of Australia should have a leader who never read the newspapers. That seemed a bit odd to me at that time. It seemed to me that if he became a Minister he probably would not be able to answer questions very well. I was a bit puzzled and doubtful about  Senator Withers.  But there was an occasion when all those doubts suddenly disappeared. On 21 May 1975  Senator Withers  got up in this chamber, brandished a document in front of the Senate and said: 
I have here a telegram from the Western Australian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, in which he expresses his concern at the indecent haste with which the Government is trying to force this legislation through the Parliament. 
From that time I abandoned my scepticism about  Senator Withers  because I thought: 'This fellow is no slouch after all; he is a man who gets telegrams from  Sir Charles  Court; he knows what it is all about; he mixes with the real big wigs of Australian politics and knights of the realm and all those people who have made Australia the country it is today; he is in that company; and all my views about him in the past must have been uncharitable and wrong'. It was at that time that my admiration for him grew. This is what he had to say: 
I have here a telegram from the Western Australian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, in which he expresses his concern at the indecent haste with which the Government is trying to force this legislation through the Parliament.  Sir Charles  points out that Western Australia received the text of the Bill only a few weeks ago. That is a totally unreasonable time to give anyone to consider this legislation properly.  Sir Charles  has asked for this debate to bc adjourned for a reasonable period to allow a proper reaction from his State and the other Slates. We agree with him. 
In a subsequent passage he said: 
Therefore those of us who come from the less populous States in particular have a duty, when a request conies from our colleagues in the State Parliaments that they want some time to consider the legislation, as far as possible- I put it in those terms- to accede to that request. That is not to say that there is not an obligation on our colleagues in the States to move as rapidly as they possibly can to satisfy any queries they may have about it. 

 Senator Withers then went on at some length to explain why he intended to vote against the Inter-State Commission Bill on 21 May 1975. The fact is that in 1 978 not only  Senator Withers  but also everybody else has access to telexes from  Sir Charles  Court. We have access also to statements by the Premier of Victoria and a number of other premiers. But more particularly, in the context of what  Senator Withers  said in 1975, we have a document from  Sir Charles  Court. It is dated 4 May and has a very interesting beginning in view of his telegram to  Senator Withers. Sir Charles  Court said in the telex: 
I have your telex advising of your wish to proceed with the environmental nuclear legislation with the objective of giving the Commonwealth appropriate powers to administer the Ranger Uranium Mining development in the Northern Territory. 1 can appreciate your desire to  press  on with uranium development in the Northern Territory. We for our part are equally anxious to press on with our project in Western Australia. 
However, the whole basis of uranium mining, processing and marketing in Australia was intended to be tied to meaningful Commonwealth-State consultation and co-operation. 
They are almost identical words to those used by honourable senators in debates in 1974.  Sir Charles  Court continued: 
We set up our ministerial and liaison organisation to cooperate with the Commonwealth but unfortunately the Commonwealth has not allowed it to function. 
All the present troubles with your legislation could have been avoided had there been vigorous consultation and negotiation. 
You are, of course, free to legislate for Commonwealth Territories but such legislation can be very embarrassing when we seek to achieve nationwide co-operation and the maximum degree of uniformity. 
There is always a tendency for unilateral legislation by the Commonwealth on any subject to be used to confront State governments where developers and special groups like Aborigines demand the things in Commonwealth legislation that suits their convenience even though conditions in different States are not comparable. 
Later in the telex he said: 
I share the concern of the other Premiers as reported to mc, and consider the Commonwealth must refrain from carrying forward any legislation which seek to impose codes of practice without obtaining State agreement. 
That is what  Sir Charles  Court spoke about in that telex of 4 May this year. Subsequently- on 5 May- he concluded another telex with these words: 
Even setting this aside the Bills have wider constitutional aspects that require consultation. As I have already noted I would prefer to solve these before the Bills become law rather than have to consider legal challenges at a later date. 
Having regard to the terminology of those telexes, if one had been sent to  Senator Withers  as distinct from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  then, on the basis of prior experience,  Senator Withers  presumably would have read it to the Senate and, when confronted by the amendment which was moved the other day by my colleague,  Senator Wriedt, Sir Charles  Court would have supported that amendment because it seeks precisely the same thing that he referred to in his telex, that is, that there be an opportunity for consultation with the States and an opportunity for the various States to discuss this legislation insofar as it affects their interests. There were discussions between officials last week in which, for example, the South Australian Government suggested that the safety codes provided in this legislation should be uniform throughout the Commonwealth, should be administered by one authority and should be tightened. That was the view of the South Australian Government. I cannot speak for the view which representatives of the Western Australian Government put in the course of those discussions. But the point is that there should have been an opportunity at every stage for those discussions to take place. That is the point of the amendment which we have moved.  It is for those  reasons that I have referred to the previous practice of the Senate and to previous statements of honourable senators in relation to this matter. 
As I said earlier, in exercising the function of a House which represents the States or a House which conducts a review function, honourable senators not only must weight the argumens which are put in the course of the current debate but also must weigh the arguments put in the light of the precedents set in debates in the Senate in the past on precisely the same set of principles. In that regard I remind honourable senators of the words of Polonius. I am hesitant about quoting from Shakespeare in this chamber because I am not sure that every honourable senator knows who he was. However, I remind honourable senators of the famous words of Polonius in  Hamlet  when Laertes was going off to England. For the benefit of Government senators and any other honourable senator who does not know who Polonius was, I suppose he could be described as the Tony Eggleton of the Castle at Elsinore. Polonius then made a statement which has become a classical quotation from this play by Shakespeare. 

 - Senator Baume knows it. He corrected me earlier when I made a slip in giving a date. Perhaps he can recite it with me. The words of Polonius are: 
This above all: to thine own self be true, 
And it must follow, as the night the day, 
Thou canst not then bc false to any man. 
Politicians cannot afford to be false to the electors of Australia or to the Premiers of the States to whom, according to many honourable senators from the other side who have spoken in this debate, they are in a sense responsible and who had some influence in sending them here. Politicians cannot be false to them because since 1 974 there have been two elections at which the electors would have been entitled to rely on the principal words that the then Opposition senatorssome of them now are Ministers- expressed with great conviction in 1 974 in this chamber about the role of senators in representing the interests of their States. I have quoted from the speeches of five Ministers and seven back benchers, the seven back benchers being a sample of the people in this chamber who now represent the Government which came to power by talking about probity in government, principle, continuity and all those things which have become part of the rhetoric of Australian politics. Of course, if they consult their own words in 1 974 and 1 975 when dealing with almost identical legislation, I suggest that those Ministers, those honourable senators, those honourable men, will have no alternative when weighing the issues in this debate but to maintain the principles which they enunciated with such conviction in 1974 and 1975. 1 urge the Senate to take a proper, wise and sensible view of this legislation in the light of that history on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen a copy of the Commonwealth  Gazette,  10 May 1977, in which a contract (No. V 1483) has been let by Telecom Australia for the supply of $16,000 worth of fishing rods. 
For what purpose does Telecom Australia require these rods. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) How many non-English-speaking children have been enrolled in Government schools in each State in each year since 1972. 
How many Migrant English teachers have been employed by the Education Department in each State in each year since 1972. 
What is the percentage of Migrant English teachers of the total number of teachers currently employed by the Education Department in each State. 
What funds have been made available by the Federal Government for Migrant Education in each year since 1 972. 
Will the Federal Government be making additional funds available for Migrant Education in the near future; if not, why not. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: In the light of recent answers on legal aid matters, is it a fact that a large number of recipients of Commonwealth pensions and benefits is ineligible for legal aid? When was the means test last adjusted? Are there any automatic procedures for it to be adjusted according to a particular index? If so, what is the index? I add that this may be a matter which is partly within the bailiwick of the Minister for Social Security but nevertheless I direct the question to the Attorney-General. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Did he on Monday of this week in evidence to the McGregor Royal Commission say on oath that on 13 September 1977 he phoned  Mr Pearson,  the Commonwealth Electoral Officer, to inform him that he did not approve of the electorate name of Gold Coast which was proposed by the Queensland distribution commissioners? Did  Mr Pearson  give evidence to the Royal Commission to the effect that he phoned  Mr Coleman  following his telephone conversation with the Minister? I refer the Minister also to his statement in the Senate on 4 November 1977 in the course of the debate on the electoral legislation, when he said: 
I have never telephoned  Mr Coleman  about the naming of electorates. I have been asked why the name of the electorate was changed. I do not know. 
I ask the Minister: Did he mislead the Senate on 4 November 1977 or the Royal Commission on Monday of this week? 
-The Opposition congratulates the Government on this decision in relation to parliamentary committee reports. We think it is an excellent decision which will help with the proper functioning of this Parliament. Certainly it will assist members and senators to have a slightly stronger feeling that in participating in parliamentary committees and functions of that kind they are engaging in a more constructive and worthwhile activity which is relevant to the proceedings of the Parliament itself. I was not aware that this statement was to be made and for that reason do not have in the forefront of my mind a collection of the reports of this Parliament which have been presented over the years and ignored effectively by the Parliament. I make no partisan political comment in relation to that except to say that in the period to which I am referring there have been governments of conservative persuasion for a much greater period of time than governments of Labor persuasion. However, I recall reports such as the 1958 report of the Committee on Constitutional Review. If I may say so with respect to the authors of that report, that report 20 years later in 1978 is still a modern document because a lot of the recommendations which it made in 1958 are still equally applicable, still equally in need of being debated in this chamber and still equally in need of implementation in our Constitution. 
Of course there are numerous other reports with which other honourable senators will have been associated. I refer particularly to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts relating to broadcasting, the recommendations of which have never been implemented. I refer to the more recent report of the Senate Committee, the name of which temporarily eludes me, but of which  Senator Baume  was  chairman,  relating to drugs. I think its report ought to be a matter of serious and earnest debate in this chamber as a result of a Government attitude being expressed in the chamber to the recommendations of the report. Unless these things are done, this Parliament as an institution will increasingly appear irrelevant because a lot of the work which the committees do is relevant to the social and political problems with which this country is confronted. A lot of the debates which take pake in this chamber quite frankly and honestly I think it should be conceded are not always relevant to the problems that face this country in social and political terms. It is those sorts of reasons, which we assume were the sorts of reasons which motivated the Government to bring down this suggestion, that motivates the Opposition likewise and lead me to the rare conclusion of congratulating the Government on this course which has been suggested in the Minister's statement. I hope it will be followed with alacrity in this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition welcomes the statement made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  in relation to the Constitutional Convention. It is the intention of the Opposition in the Senate to be represented by  Senator James  McClelland,  Senator Robertson  and me at that Convention. We regard it as something of a pity that the same motion which was moved in relation to the previous Convention has now been moved in relation to a convention in 1 978 without any agenda. This does not allow for any of the flexibility which  Senator Haines  suggested might have been desirable in the comments she made a few minutes ago. Quite frankly, I wish to place on record that the Opposition has not had an opportunity to consider at a party meeting the matters which were raised by  Senator Haines  in her speech. That is a matter of regret. 
It does not matter what the honourable senator says; as I said, the Opposition has not had an opportunity to consider the matters raised in her speech. In the absence of that consideration, we are unable to express a firm position on it. For my part, I find some sympathy with the suggestions she made about representation for other than the two major parties. But from what she said I gained the impression that she interpreted the results of the past general election as indicating to the Senate and to the people of Australia that the Australian Democrats had something significant to say about the Australian Constitution. As I recall the Press discussion on the policies of the Australian Democrats at the last election, it was to the effect that the Australian Democrats had no policy, particularly in relation to matters such as constitutional reform. I think that is a factor which we will have to bear in mind. One could scarcely say that Australian Democrats come here with a mandate- if one can use that expression- on the basis that they have shown an interest in constitutional reform, because that is not so. One would have thought that  Senator Haines'  argument would have been strengthened if that had been the case. 
If I might interrupt the Minister's unusual practice of reading the paper, I would like him to comment on one or two matters which are of concern to the Opposition. I refer to the terms of the motion which relate to what might be termed proxies. I do not think they are termed proxies in the motion, but the Minister will recall that the motion provides that if a delegate is unable for any reason to attend a meeting of the Convention a substitute for him can be provided. I alert him now, if I may, both in his capacity as a delegate and as Minister for Administrative Services, to the fact that that presents a problem for the Opposition in the Senate in view of the fact that senators will be retiring from this Parliament on 30 June and we will have at least three new senators here, some of whom might both desire to attend and be appropriate persons to attend the Constitutional Convention in Perth. 
I make one other comment about the Convention, which I suppose is in the nature of a pious hope. First of all, we have not yet seen an agenda for the Constitutional Convention. It is to be hoped that the agenda will not be arrived at on the basis of the lowest denominator of issues which the Convention ought to be discussing. Earlier today in the Senate I referred to the report of the Fifty-eighth Constitutional Review Committee. I repeat that in those days the members of that Committee saw grave defects in the Constitution and made recommendations about those defects in relation to matters which I think are of increasingly fundamental concern to the economic efficiency of this country and, if we are to be a viable democracy in the 1980s, issues which are of the utmost importance. 
We come now to a convention in 1978. 1 have the very strong suspicion that that Convention will not deal with important issues, such as the nature of Commonwealth industrial power, the nature of Commonwealth economic powers, the nature of Commonwealth foreign affairs powers, and matters of that kind which were dealt with in 1958, apparently as matters of importance then. I hope that the Convention will not be just an empty exercise. I hope that those of us who are there who have different points of view about these issues will be able to debate them on a pretty free agenda. That is what a Constitutional Convention ought to be. It ought to be a forum for debating issues of national importance as they relate to a document which  Senator Haines  properly described as providing the political framework- I think that was the expression she used- for the carrying on of government and politics in this country. We express our very profound concern that it should be a meaningful convention. I was also a little perturbed by the words of the Minister, I think to the effect that the Government has decided that the Convention should once again meet in plenary session. 
-He said that it should meet at least once again in plenary session. I have some doubts about the connotations of those words and of the Government's intention. It is no good the Constitutional Convention meeting again in plenary session after the Perth meeting if it is not to be a meaningful convention which discusses questions of fundamental importance to this country. 
-I have conceded  Senator Haines's  point about that. I have said that it is a matter of personal preference. I agree with her. But what I hope will happen is that in July when the Australian Democrats come here in their full glory- I do not wish to detract from  Senator Haines  at all- they will argue the case for a popular convention to consider constitutional issues and not just for a convention which is confined to the sort of grey bureaucrats of politics, such as the Minister and I. 
-The black bureaucrats. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I think  Senator Button  is quite capable of making his speech. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I am colour blind in these matters; therefore I was happy for those two gentlemen to have that exchange. I commend my suggestion to the Democrats as the desirable policy which they might adopt- perhaps the first they adopt. Then in July they will be able to do what I indicated in relation to the reform of the Australian Constitution. We hope that it will be a meaningful convention. We hope that because it is a meaningful convention it will not be the last convention and that the subject of desirable constitutional reforms will continually be brought forward and debated in this country as an issue of national importance. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Government in the Senate)- by leave- My colleague,  Senator Rae,  wishes to move the adjournment of the debate, but I think I ought to mention a couple of matters first.  Senator Button  raised two issues. I understand that the agenda has been settled by the Agenda Committee and will be published shortly. No doubt a colleague of  Senator Button  in this Parliament is a member of that Agenda Committee. I suggest that  Senator Button  should speak to him.  Senator Button  also raised a problem with respect to a senator who will retire on 30 June being appointed a member of the Constitutional Convention. He asked what would be that person 's position at the Convention after 1 July. I must admit that I thought about this yesterday. If the honourable senator has any suggestions I should be pleased if he would muli over the matter and let me know what he thinks. Paragraph (4) of my motion states: 
That a member of the Delegation ceases to be a member if- (a) he ceases to be a member of the Commonwealth Parliament; 
In other words, a senator retires on 30 June and is not coming back. I wonder how far would such a person be picked up in paragraph (5) of the motion, which states: 
That where, because of illness or any other cause . . . 
Is 'any other cause' related only to illness, or does it include someone who 'ceases to be a member of the Commonwealth Parliament'. If any other cause' includes 'ceases to be a member of the Commonwealth Parliament' paragraph (5) of the motion provides that: 
. the Leader or senior or available member of the Party in the House from which the member was drawn may nominate an alternate member . . . 
I take it that 'an alternate member' would be, in this case, a senator who was eligible to take his place as from 1 July. But I shall have to seek the advice of the  President  or someone else on whether he would be eligible if he was not sworn as a senator. At what stage does someone become a senator? That is one of the more interesting points. I take it that one is entitled to be a senator as from 1 July. Does one become a full, true or absolute senator before one takes that oath or affirmation of allegiance and signs the roll? That is a matter on which I would not be competent to give advice. I put it to the honourable senator that he may like to mull over those problems, which I was thinking about yesterday myself. Whilst I cannot given an undertaking on behalf of the Government, I am quite certain that if the honourable senator has any suggestions as to overcoming what he sees could be a problem, the Government would give it sympathetic consideration. 

 Senator BUTTON (Victoria)-by leave-The Minister has perhaps been more specific about the nature of the problem than I was. Let me be quite specific. There are at least two senators coming into this place next July who are lawyers and who would be appropriate people to attend the Constitutional Convention. I hope that matter can be clarified because they would have a contribution to make. If they are, in fact, senators for the purpose of attending the Convention, that is the course we may desire to take. 
-I rise to support the amendment to Clause 2 moved by my colleague,  Senator Walsh,  concerning the date of operation of the provisions of this Bill. It refers specifically, of course, to the provisions of clauses 1 1 and 13, and to amendments to those clauses which I understand the Government intends to move. 
As  Senator Walsh  has pointed out, the effect of the Government's proposed amendments to clauses 1 1 and 1 3 would be to provide that Australia would have a uniform code on nuclear safety and environmental protection, only if certain circumstances arose; namely, if the State governments request the Governor-General, and thereby the Commonwealth Government, to proclaim a code in respect of the territorial areas of their States. The consequences of that, as  Senator Walsh  pointed out, would be simply that, in dealing with uranium and uranium mining, to put it somewhat bluntly, the Government of Victoria could request that a code be proclaimed which would apply to that State. The Government of Queensland- and let us not beat about the bush- might have a different view concerning safety requirements in connection with uranium mining in that State. It might say: 'We do not want you to proclaim the code in relation to the State of Queensland. We will have our own Queensland law on this matter, just as we have it in relation to demonstrations, the Aboriginals at Aurukun and Mornington Island, and so on. ' Just as it believes that those laws should apply, that any laws which the Federal Parliament is empowered to make in relation to those matters should not be made because it asserts a prior right, it can say the same thing in relation to uranium mining. 
The recommendations of the Fox Committee of inquiry, to which this Government gives so much lip service, are quite specific. Point No. 4, as set out in the first report, states: 
Any development of Australian uranium mines should be strictly regulated and controlled, for the purposes mentioned in Chapter 16. 
One does not need to go to Chapter 16 because that deals with the question of the hazards of uranium mining. Point No. 7 states: 
Policy respecting Australian uranium exports, for the time being at least, should be based on a full recognition of the hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy and should therefore seek to limit or restrict expansion of that production. 
Point No. 10 states: 
The Government should immediately explore what steps it can take to assist in reducing the hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy. 
Those are just points taken at random. One could go on, but what is significant is what this Government is doing when confronted with telegrams from  Sir Charles  Court and other people. Earlier the Government insisted that when it came to power it said that there should be a uniform nuclear safety code for the whole of Australia; that it considered that desirable in light of the Fox recommendations. However, on 4 May, the Government received a telegram from  Sir Charles  Court which, by implication, threatened a High Court action if it went ahead with this legislation, and noises were heard from other State Premiers also. The Government then abandoned the principle that it had derived from the Fox report, that there should be uniform standards in relation to safety. The Government simply abandoned it. The consequence could be that, in relation to uranium mining, potentially there could be a different standard in relation to safety codes in each State. 

 Senator Wright, as I recall, put his finger on the point in an earlier contribution to this debate. He said that the uranium issue was a matter of such concern that the States should cede their powers in that regard to the Commonwealth. Of course, he was right, but the Government, in pursuit of a bizarre notion of federalism, is hiding behind a Constitution devised in 1900, when the horse and buggy were just attaining relative sophistication. It is attempting to apply those principles in 1978, when we are dealing with the nuclear power industry and with uranium. That is a ridiculous situation, because whatever wisdom the Founding Fathers had, it was not of the kind which would have helped them understand the Fox report on uranium mining. They did not have the sort of wisdom that would have foreseen some of these things. 
In the face of widespread concern both in Australia and in the world, the Government has, on this fundamental issue of the importance of safety codes in the development of uranium mining, backed away- in the pursuit of some peculiar notion of its own, derived perhaps from Montesquieu and Adam Smith about the nature of the separation of powers and the desirability of having regard to the views of the States. The amendment moved by  Senator Walsh  simply says that there should be further consultations with the States before these clauses are proclaimed with a view to reaching agreement with the States on a uniform code relating to safety matters. Surely that is the correct way to approach this matter. One does not, as is suggested in the amendments to be moved on behalf of the Government, just slip glibly out of all the pious statements that have been made about the importance of this legislation because, as I have said, the Government received a telegram from  Sir Charles  Court and a few other people who want to have their finger in this pie. 
I say to the Minister that there are other ways of going about this which the Government may have in mind. But the important point is, of course, the desirability of uniformity. This industry is seen as so important that the Government is not going to allow a different situation to arise in different States. I appreciate the constitutional difficulties but surely the first approach to the States should be one of consultation first to see whether they will agree to give the Commonwealth powers in relation to this matter and secondly whether they agree to a uniform code. I understand that even that approach has dangers because different standards may be applied by different State governments as to what they want in that code. I support the amendment. 
I follow up one or two of the remarks made by  Senator Wriedt. Senator Wriedt  has pointed out the sort of consultation that has taken place with the States. I find it extraordinary that  Senator Carrick  should cite in this chamber a telegram sent today to the State Premiers in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sets out his view about the effects of those consultations as evidence of a satisfactory process of consultation. Irrespective of the telegrams that the Minister sends, we in the Senate have to debate the legislation as it is and we have to draw the attention of the Senate to what the legislation means, irrespective of any pious statements of intent by the Prime Minister. 
As  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out and as I believe it was pointed out earlier, the meaning of the legislation is quite clear.  Senator Carrick  said that the consequence of the action which the Prime Minister suggests in his telegram should take place will be that we will have uniform legislation in the States and the Commonwealth relating to nuclear codes. That is no answer because even if uniform legislation were ultimately achieved, and we of the Opposition hope that that endeavour will be successful, it would still carry with it the grave weakness that that legislation is the legislation of State parliaments and is subject to interpretation by State courts. 
So the consequence even of uniform legislation could conceivably be a set of quite distinct and different judicial interpretations of what the legislation in fact means. The consequence of the course upon which the Government has now set itself is one of potential confusion, as the point was made earlier. I think we must concedeperhaps even more readily than did the Ministerthat there are problems of constitutional power for the Commonwealth Government in dealing with this matter. We find it extraordinaryI think  Senator Wriedt  touched on this point- that, in the process of consultation which the Minister says he has had, it never occured to the Commonwealth Government to advert to the weakness of its own constitutional power until it was pointed out by a State Premier. That is extraordinary. 
I should like the Minister, in any subsequent comments he has to make, to clarify two other issues. In remarks the Minister has just made, he began by saying that there was a meeting of State Ministers and officials last week. I ask the Minister whether there was in fact a meeting of State Ministers because it is my firm conviction that there was not. It was a meeting of officials only. 
With respect,  Mr Minister,  you read those words from the Prime Minister's telegram. 
With the greatest respect,  Mr Minister,  two statements were made by you in relation to this matter. In the second one you referred to a meeting of officials and in the first one you referred to a meeting of State Ministers and officials. I am only concerned to clarify the matter. I am not suggesting that it could have been anything other than perhaps a misreading. I am concerned to clarify that point. 
-Yes, I am sure that it will provided it accurately reflects what took place. The second point to which I should like the Minister to respond is whether in those discussions between State officials- perhaps that was not an appropriate place for it to be done- any discussion was on the agenda or took place relating to the desirability of State power, of the States giving powers to the Commonwealth in relation to this matter of a code. I should be happy to be advised about that. I should also like to know whether, if that was not on the agenda, why it was not on the agenda because, as people like  Senator Wright  have pointed out in the course of previous debate in this chamber, it is a very important suggestion. 
I seek clarification from the Minister. The original intention of the Government was, of course, spelt out in clause 6 of the Bill. In view of the other amendments to be moved by the Government, I wonder whether the Minister could explain in what respect this Bill binds the Crown in the right of the States in relation to nuclear codes. I take it that proposed new clause 6a is expected to be some qualification of that which is designed to promote the process of discussion, about which the Minister spoke earlier. I assume that clause 6 remains as it stands. 
-The Minister has moved a proposed new clause 6a. I thought he nodded his agreement when I asked whether it was intended in some respects to be some form of qualification, having regard to other amendments to clause 6. If it is not, what is the intention now of clause 6 in relation to nuclear codes, in respect of which I should have thought the States are not bound? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on  4  April 1978: 
1 ) Was the reference to the Industries Assistance Commission, relating to the light commercial vehicle industry, considered by the Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Assistance to Industry. 
Was the reference recommended by the Department of Industry and Commerce. 
Was the reference a result of direct agreement between  Sir Brian  Inglis, of the Ford Motor Co., and the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Which sections of the Department of Productivity employ the Metropolitan Security Service (MSS) for the purpose of security surveillance of buildings. 
In all instances, on what date did the MSS begin its duties with the Department of Productivity. 
What are the terms and conditions of the Department of Productivity 's contract with MSS Pty Ltd. 
Why has the Department of Productivity dispensed with the services of the Commonwealth Police in favour of the MSS in some instances. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I suppose it is a question designed to see how thick is the elephant's hide. The question I put to the Minister is this: In evidence to the royal commission last Monday, in answer to questions the Minister said that he had phoned  Mr Pearson  in order to get him to phone the Distribution Commissioners about the naming of the seat Gold Coast. In reply to a question, the Minister said: 
I assume they changed the name because of this. 
I ask the Minister why, in answering questions in this place last Friday, he repeatedly stated: 'I do not know why they changed the name' and did not give the Senate the benefit of the assumptions he was prepared to make before the royal commission. 
-The purpose of the insertion of new Part IVa relates in a sense to a judicial and constitutional point which is simply this: Assuming the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978 is passed and proclaimed, the Commonwealth Government will be given paramount rights over the mining of uranium. The question which concerns the Opposition is the method of enforcement of those rights. Proposed new Part IVA provides for the enforcement of those rights and remedies to be available in the Federal Court of Australia. If honourable senators consult the provisions of clause 1 1 of the Bill, even as amended, they will see that they provide effectively that the States can make regulations and pass legislation on these matters. It is the Opposition's view that if the Commonwealth has assumed power in relation to those matters it should also assume responsibility in relation to enforcement of remedies. The consequence of this provision not being inserted would be that a citizen seeking to enforce a remedy would have to do so in the State courts with the ultimate possibility of there being different interpretations from one State to another and different remedies being provided in one State or another. 
I suppose one could summarise the purpose of the proposed amendment by saying that the Bill as presently drafted does not acknowledge the existence of a Federal Court of Australia and its function as a Federal court in relation to Commonwealth legislation and the enforcement of rights under Commonwealth legislation. The result of the new Part IVA being adopted would be that there would be at least the certainty of uniformity of application of Federal law in the Federal Court and that citizens would have right of redress in that court rather than having to seek any rights or remedies which they might conceive that they have under this legislation rather than having to pursue those rights or remedies in a court of a State. The amendment does not go to the fundamentals of the legislation but it is important from the Opposition's point of view and, in a sense, we would have thought that it would have commended itself to the Government in terms of securing some degree of uniformity of remedy of rights under this legislation. 
-I move: 
Leave out sub-clauses ( 1 ) to (5), insert the following subclauses: 
I ) Where a situation exists where the health or safety of persons, or the environment is likely to be harmed by a nuclear activity that exists in a State or Territory and the laws of the Commonwealth (other than this section) and of the State or Territory do not make provision for protecting the health or safety of persons likely to be affected by that situation or for protecting the environment in so far as it is likely to be affected by that situation, the GovernorGeneral may, by order, authorize a Minister, during the period that the order remains in force, to give such directions and take such action as, subject to sub-section (2), arc strictly necessary to control and eliminate hazards associated with the situation. 
An order under sub-section ( 1 ) may specify terms and conditions to which the authority given by the order is to be subject. 
An order shall only remain in force for such time as is necessary to control the situation which has given rise to the making of the order. 
A person who unreasonably refuses or fails to comply with any direction given by a Minister in pursuance of an order under sub-section ( 1 ), or hinders or obstructs the taking of any action in pursuance of such an order, is guilty of an offence and is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or imprisoment for a period not exceeding 6 months, or both '. 
I am not sure that this is the most elegantly drafted amendment with which I have had occasion to deal but I think the point of the amendment is clear enough. It arises from deficiencies in the present provisions of clause 13, which require, for example, that the Governor-General be satisfied that the health or safety of persons, or the environment, is likely to be harmed by what is called a 'situation ' resulting from a nuclear activity that exists in a State or Territory. Paragraph (b) of clause 13(1) and subsequent paragraphs have the same imprecision and inelegance about them which I suppose prompted this amendment. 
The amendment has been moved simply to make available a wider range of opinion than merely that of the Governor-General in order to assess the so-called 'situation' involving the health or safety of persons. That is to say, the amendment presumably provides for the situation where citizens, law officers or other people could point to a situation existing which would attract the provisions of the clause. The Opposition finds the present clause 13 unsatisfactory in that regard because of the terminology used and the very doubtful understanding of the expression 'Where the Governor-General is satisfied ', et cetera, and as those words relate to the word 'situation'. That is the only purpose of this amendment and it is why it has been moved. 
I am indebted to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for the terminology in his advice. The amendment can perhaps be best described in the terms in which the Minister spoke. The amendment is concerned about not so much the action of a Minister or a Governor-General as about the possible inaction of a Minister or a GovernorGeneral. That is the difficulty which the amendment seeks to rectify. If I might express a personal view which is not exemplary in its loyalty the amendment, perhaps in a rather inadequate way, attempts to deal with that difficulty. I am indebted to the Minister for Education for the terminology that he used. It has enabled me to describe more specifically the purpose of the amendment than perhaps I did in my original comments. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Minister for Administrative Services no longer has the confidence of the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General, as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations or to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. 
My question relates to the Commonwealth Youth Employment Subsidy Scheme. Some five weeks ago I asked the Attorney-General whether the Government had evidence of abuse of that scheme by employers and whether the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was investigating abuse of that scheme by employers. At that stage the Attorney-General- I hesitate to use this terminologydeclined to answer the question. He said that he would obtain the information. I again ask: Has the Government information about the abuse of that scheme by employers? Is the Government conducting an investigation into the abuse of that scheme by employers? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) What Committees of Inquiry and major reviews has the Government established since 13 December 1975. 
Which Committee and Review bodies have yet to report to the Government and when are they expected to report. 
-I move: 
That the Minister for Administrative Services no longer has the confidence of the Senate. 
Yesterday at Question Time in the SenateI asked a question of the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  which related to the situation of the Royal Commission into allegations made against the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, and his participation in that Royal Commission. In answer to the question,  Senator Withers  replied: 
It is a matter of whether one relies upon assumptions or knowledge. I prefer to rely upon knowledge. 
Clearly, the Minister decided yesterday that he would not answer any more questions in relation to this matter, just as in another place  Mr Lynch,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce, has decided that he will not answer any more questions in relation to another matter. The purpose of the motion which I have moved is partly to deal with the question of knowledge as distinct from assumptions. I begin by referring the Senate to a statement made by the Minister in the Senate on 4 November 1977 when he was dealing with a question from  Senator Georges.  Referring to the naming of the electorate of Gold Coast or McPherson- it subsequently became known as McPherson- the Minister had this to say: 
I have never telephoned  Mr Coleman  about the naming of electorates. I have been asked why the names were changed. I do not know. 
The Minister goes on to make a suggestion to honourable senators about what they should do in trying to decide the merits of this matter. The question was asked again in a different form in this place on 29 May. In answer to the question, the Minister said: 
I may have misled Parliament in relation to the matter. 
He again said;  1 do not know why the name of the electorate was changed. 
Having told the Senate on Friday of last week that he may have misled the Parliament,  Senator Withers,  according to Press reports, spent the weekend burning leaves; not worried about the question at all. It is, of course, an important matter that a Minister should come into this place and say, 'I may have misled the Parliament'. It is a matter which has concerned many Ministers over a long period. But apparently it does not concern  Senator Withers  who, as I say, spent the weekend burning leaves because it is a matter, as he put it, of no concern to him. It is of concern to the Opposition and it ought to be of concern to the Senate. 
Let us look at the facts for a moment. On 4 November 1977 the Minister gave his answer in the Senate to the question to which I have referred. He said:  1 have never telephoned  Mr Coleman  about the naming of electorates. 
The facts are that he telephoned  Mr Pearson  and asked him to speak to  Mr Coleman  about the naming of electorates. One might say that the Minister's answer is technically correct. It is not an untruth in any sense. It is just an answer designed to conceal the truth from the Parliament on 4 November 1977. Let us look at what the Minister said about that particular subject matter. At the Royal Commission he was asked this question: 
When they published their report- 
Obviously that is the basis of his representation. I have waited this long to make quite sure that that was the basis of his argument and that it was not just a preliminary matter. I remind you,  Mr President,  that this sub judice matter has been dealt with considerably by presiding officers of the Parliament and of" the Senate. It is set out at length in the fifth edition of Mr Odgers book  Australian Senate Practice.  I refer to page 250 and subsequent pages of that edition. It relates not only to court or criminal proceedings, or anything of that sort, but also to anything that might be done which might be restrictive of debate. The then  President  of the Senate,  Sir Magnus  Cormack, in a ruling stated: 
The prime question I must ask myself is, I think: Is parliamentary debate likely to give rise to any real and substantial danger of prejudice to proceedings before the court? 
-The statement which has just been made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  is interesting in that it recognises the inadequacy of the existing terms of reference of the Royal Commission, a matter which was the subject of Opposition concern both in recent weeks and in the Parliament today. One interesting consequence of the widened terms of reference is that, having regard to the ruling made by the  President  in this chamber today, following the raising of points of order, the area which is presumed to be sub judice and the area which we are prevented from debating in detail in the Senate is in fact widened. That is a matter which of course is a cause for further Opposition concern. 
The Attorney-General in the statement refers to the fact that the Royal Commission was restricted by the existing terms of reference to making findings only about the conduct of  Mr Eric  Robinson and the Distribution Commissioners. As one who listened to the debate in the Senate today, I find that statement from the AttorneyGeneral almost unbelievable. It was quite implicit in the points of order which were taken and in the ruling which was subsequently arrived at that the terms of reference of the Royal Commission were much widened and embraced for example the question of the propriety and conduct of a Minister in the Senate. That in our view was not so; it is still not so. To that extent we welcome the widening of the terms of reference. They do enable the Commissioner now to consider whether there was impropriety on behalf of persons other than the Distribution Commissioners and other than  Mr Eric  Robinson. We think that is an appropriate matter for the Royal Commission to pronounce upon. As I say, we are left with the difficulty that it also means, having regard to the ruling made in this chamber, a widening of the effect of the sub judice rule. 
The consequences of the widened terms of reference are of course that the Royal Commission now has a more onerous and a wider task in arriving at a finding, given the wider terms of reference under which it can conduct that inquiry. The other consequence is that honourable senators will be prevented from considering that matter until the terms of reference of the Royal Commission are deliberated upon and the Commission discharges its function by presenting a report. There are two matters, therefore, which concern the Opposition in this regard. We think it an appropriate response in the sense that there has been a recognition, albeit belatedly, of the need for wider terms of reference. We greet the response with mixed feelings in view of the implications, as I pointed out in my remarks in the last few minutes. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Again the reasons for these pieces of legislation have been spelt out by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech. They arise from changes in administrative arrangements made by the present Government following the election of 1975, and they are self-explanatory. The Opposition does not oppose them. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
How many Australian Public Servants have been issued with top security clearances to date. 
Under what circumstances are top security clearances issued. 
Is the Minister for Education aware of the fact that the States Grants (Universities) Act 1976 sets out as one condition of Federal grants to States for universities that the States ensure that no university charges fees? Is he also aware that the Act goes on to exempt certain classes of payment by students from the definition of 'fees', including fees payable in respect of an organisation of students? Do the Government policies expressed in that Act of 1 976 still apply, without change, and in particular has the possibility of further conditions being imposed been ruled out at the present time? 
-The Senate is debating the failure of the Government to maintain the independence, objectivity and high standard of the national broadcasting service. In answer to that charge, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who represents the responsible Minister in this place, offered three defences. First of all, he offered a smattering of wild assertions, many of them incorrect in fact and many of them highly subjective. Secondly, he said that it is not open to the Parliament to criticise men on the Australian Broadcasting Commission who cannot defend themselves. That is an absurd political proposition for a Minister to advance. Of course the function of this Parliament is to conduct a discussion and debate about the workings of statutory authorities in this country. Of course it is the function of this Parliament to criticise, where it thinks it appropriate, officers of statutory authorities and members of a body such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is an absurd political proposition for a Minister in the Fraser Government to assert otherwise. The third defence he offered was simply to say that this Government never interferes. There are classic examples of this Government interfering, but let me cite just one from the report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977: 
The Commission on several occasions indicated that it wished to continue the 3ZZ service. The Government announced on 30 June 1977, however, that funds would not be provided in 1977-78 for the continued operation of 3ZZ and, as a result- on 15 July 1977- the station ceased operation. The Commission regrets the loss of 3ZZ which provided a service valued by a wide variety of community groups. 
That, in itself, is a classic indictment of the stupidity of the Minister's statement that this Government never interferes. In moving this motion the Opposition is not saying that some cataclysmic crisis has been brought about by this Government or anybody else in the affairs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. There is a lot of public goodwill towards the Australian Broadcasting Commission and what we regret, and what this motion had been brought forward to illustrate, is the slow decline in the standards of the Commission in terms of the words used in the matter of public importance. For example, there have been significant cuts in the drama productions of the ABC. I ask the Minister to instruct a subsequent  speaker  on the Government side to deny that those cuts have been of the order of 50 per cent in the last couple of years. There has been a significant decline in the number and quality of public affairs programs. There is a danger that the ABC ultimately will end up as some sort of musack station if the atmosphere of greyness and lack of diversity in programming continues. 
The Opposition asserts that we should aspire in this Parliament, and this involves criticism of bodies such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to the highest standards in a national broadcasting service. It is the Government's responsibility to ensure that we do aspire to the highest standards and that the Australian Broadcasting Commission reaches the highest standards. The people of Australia are proud of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and would like it to reach those standards. What do we mean in this motion by the words 'the independence' of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? The classic example of what is really meant by independence in a broadcasting service relates to the British Broadcasting Commission at the time of the Suez war in 1956. The British Broadcasting Commission was instructed by a Minister in the British Government not to broadcast certain matters relating to the war because it would be detrimental to the morale of the British troops in Egypt. The BBC declined to accept the Minister's instruction not to broadcast certain matters because it felt it had a responsibility to broadcast the news and the truth. That is an example of the sort of thing we mean by independence. 
What do we mean by objectivity in a broadcasting service? May I quote from another distinguished Director-General of the British Broadcasting Commission on what it means by independence and the sort of thing to which we should aspire in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Sir Charles  Currannothing to do with the Curran case in Australiaas Director-General of the BCC had this to say: 
I suggest that we can ask ourselves three test questions to judge whether we are fulfilling our proper duty. First, have we been fair to those whose actions and words we are reporting? Second, have we been fair in giving access to the medium to those who have views likely to command a significant degree of support? Sometimes we may also have to ask ourselves whether we have given access to those who may not have significant support but who clearly have a significant idea. 
He went on in that vein. Of course, if we could get a statement like that from  Mr Norgard,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, about the aspirations which he has for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, then we would have fewer grounds for criticism in this country. If we could get a statement in similar terms from the Minister, asserting the independence and the objectivity of the ABC then, of course, this matter of public importance would never have been raised. But those things do not happen in this country. In relation to the question of high standards, to which  Senator Ryan  referred, the same sort of criticism can be applied. 
If one runs briefly through the history of the Australian Broadcasting Commission one can see that it has been through a period of considerable turmoil and change over the years. I think it is true to say that in the period when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister of this country in a strange way a very genuine independence was enjoyed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. A  chairman  and a general manager were appointed, and they were left largely to run the Commission on their own without any interference. That sort of thing really came to an end with the election of the Fraser Government. It came to an end in a way, to which there has been some allusion in a previous discussion. When this Government came to power certain things happened in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. First of all there were the cuts in funds, to which  Senator Carrick  and others have referred. I do not necessarily say that those cuts in funds were responsible for the decline in the service, but  Sir Henry  Bland as  Chairman  of the ABC once said: 'The ABC has been cut to the bone by this Government'. So there must have been a suspicion in the mind of  Sir Henry  Bland that the cuts in funds had something to do with that. 
Secondly, there has been a quite deliberate campaign- the Minister knows this quite well- by people such as  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport, and by  Senator Withers,  to attack the ABC and the ABC commissioners.  Senator Carrick,  when he was speaking earlier, forgot to mention a classic attack which was made on the ABC commissioners by somebody who he would say was in coward's castle. It was made in the Senate by  Senator Withers  early in 1 976 when he referred to the commissioners who had been appointed by the previous Government. Of course, the attacks by people such as  Mr Nixon  and the criticisms of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which he has made over a number of years have descended to the lowest common denominator of intellectual debate in this country. 
The other matter which  Senator Carrick  carefully chose to avoid was the effect on the ABC of the establishment of the special broadcasting service. The Government probably recognises now that it made a disastrous mistake, in terms of ethnic broadcasting and independent broadcasting, by appointing that body. That mistake has had a slightly detrimental effect on the morale of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I personally take the view that at this time there ought to be a public inquiry into the affairs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission- perhaps it should be a royal commission- of the kind which the British Broadcasting Corporation has held, 1 think, every seven years. 
The reasons for that are quite simple. There are very real problems in the ABC. There is the very real problem to which  Senator Ryan  referred, of the decline in the morale of the ABC staff. There is the fact that the special projects department of the ABC is gradually being whittled away. There is the fact that its program making is increasingly being centralised in Sydney with a detrimental effect on the program makers and the program making facilities in places such as Adelaide, Melbourne and elsewhere. There has been a very strong centralisation of program making, close to management in Sydney. There has been a consequent decline in the standard of the ABC regional services. There is an extraordinary and unfortunate relationship between the program staff and the administrative staff of the ABC. I say 'extraordinary and unfortunate' because that situation probably stems from the Public Service model structure of the ABC. That means that, in the ABC, people are required to move out of creative program areas into management areas if they want to be promoted. 
There is a very strong suspicion in the community that the top management of the ABC is in a very real sense top heavy. Let us look, for example, at the top level of the radio structure of the ABC. We find that there is an Assistant General Manager (Radio), a controller of radio programs and a director of radio programs in each of the two networks. That is the top management structure. One might ask whether that sort of structure is really necessary when the ABC has an admitted limited program making capacity in 1978. Added to that there is a strong suspicion of interference in the program making function by top management and the commissioners. For example, I would like the Minister to instruct another  speaker  in this debate to tell us whether it is true that in the pipeline there is a new ABC program called 'Science Bookshop' and whether the commissioners of the ABC have directed that no book will be reviewed on that program unless it has been first to the commissioners for approval. I would like the Minister to advise some subsequent  speaker  in this debate whether he can deny that that is the fact. 
All these are matters of concern to the wide public support which the Australian Broadcasting Commissioner has enjoyed over many years. As I said earlier, we do not say that there is a cataclysmic decline in the ABC, but there is a slow erosion of the sorts of standards which it reached a few years ago- the sorts of standards which it enjoyed in a different and much less complex society, for example, under the Menzies Government. That is a matter for concern. It is a matter which justifies criticism of the commissioners of the ABC, which justifies criticism of the management of the ABC and which, in my view, should quite clearly lead to a public inquiry into the affairs of the ABC. Amongst other things, that public inquiry should be responsible for an assertion, supported by the Minister, that this Government regards the independence of the ABC as an important matter and is prepared to guarantee it by the sorts of appointments which it makes. That inquiry should deal with the method of funding the ABC and whether a national broadcasting service is appropriate in 1978. 
All these matters are of concern to a widespread area of the public. It is not sufficient- I say this for the Minister, with the greatest respect and for want of a better word- to waffle his way through this debate, not dealing with any of the real issues of concern to members of this community and to members of the ABC staff. He should not try to sweep all that discussion under the carpet by making the sort of silly suggestion that the commissioners of the ABC are in no way open to criticism and that they are in no way responsible to this Parliament for the administration of what was once a great national broadcasting service. It is in that spirit that the Opposition commends the matter of public importance to the Senate. 
-The Opposition does not oppose any of these three Bills. Probably it is not necessary for me to say any more than that. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech set out the purpose of these Bills. If anybody wants to know why the Opposition does not oppose the Bills the reason can be found in that second reading speech. As the Minister pointed out, the High Court of Australia in recent days has been seized of the problem which is set out in the second paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech. We do not oppose the Bill. However, in our view there are one or two things to which the attention of the Minister should be drawn. If there is a failure to make available regulations for sale and distribution, as I recall the legislation, the Minister for Administrative Services is required within 1 5 sitting days to report that fact to the Parliament. It is not clear in the legislation, as I read it, within 1 5 sitting days of what the Minister is required to do that. Is it within 15 sitting days of the apparent failure? I should be grateful if the Minister can answer that question. 
The second point is that there is no sanction in the legislation for the Minister's failure to act as required by the legislation and to comply with these provisions. The difficulty about that is that there is a great deal of talk in this chamber and elsewhere about ministerial responsibility, about what it means and so on. In our view it would have been preferable if the legislation had indicated some sanction in respect of a failure to comply with that provision. I know that Ministers of this Government are mindful of this question or they certainly appear to be mindful of this question in debates which take place here. I know that  Senator Chaney  in this place frequently refers to the views of Professor Gordon Reid on the question of ministerial responsibility. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given a great deal of lip service and rhetoric to the importance which he attaches to ministerial responsibility. The Opposition would like to know what the Government means and how it fleshes out the notion of ministerial responsibility about which it talks a lot. This issue has been in the forefront of recent debates in the Senate. We feel it would be an improvement if something were inserted in the legislation regarding the function of the Minister. Apart from that, I indicate that the Opposition does not oppose the Bills. We make the suggestions to the Minister in a constructive spirit. Perhaps if he is in earnest about these matters, his Department could have a look at them and perhaps the legislation could be considered further. 
I do not wish to pursue at great length the point in which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and I were engaged a few minutes ago. The point the Opposition was trying to make- I thought I was doing so in a constructive spirit rather than by way of a sideswipe- related, in a sense, to the protection of the Minister, If a Minister has the stimulation of a provision in the legislation relating to his responsibilities, one would assume he would discharge his responsibilities better and in fact be protected by that provision. It would be extraordinary if" the Attorney-General overlooked this responsibility. In some sense that could become a dereliction of duty. Having regard to the subject matter of this legislation that could become the subject of an attack or criticism. 
The final suggestion of the Attorney-General, that as long as this Government is in office we can rest in confidence about the details of the legislation, I find an extraordinary aid to the construction of legislation. That is really a new principle of interpretation which I have not heard before, even from the present Attorney-General. I do not wish to pursue the matter further. The suggestion was made, I thought, in a constructive spirit and it is something that might be adverted to in future legislation. 
-The Senate is debating a number of Bills which are designed to implement the Government's undertaking, given at the 1977 election, to abolish estate duty and gift duty. The Opposition opposes this legislation largely on the grounds which are suggested by the amendment. The Opposition has moved that the Bills be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced. For reasons which I propose to show, we find the Government's position on this matter extraordinary. We find it extraordinary not so much because the Government has again bowed to what one might describe as fashion in relation to this matter but because all the advice, or a very large proportion of the advice, which the Government has commissioned on this question has been against the abolition of death duties and estate duties, and also because the situation which I have described, of the abolition of these duties without the implementation of some form of capital gains tax, will make this country unique in the Western world. That is a matter to which I wish to turn. 
The important political point is this: In the 1977 policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when he committed himself to the abolition of death and estate duties, also made much fuss about the importance of Australian society being motivated by a principle of reward for virtue. It was said over and over again in various forms that it was important to encourage initiative, excellence and hard work by offering appropriate rewards. That is not a principle with which we in the Opposition disagree. But we find that principle entirely inconsistent with the abolition of these duties which, of course, will result in people being remunerated in significant ways by receiving substantial rewards for which, in a personal sense, there has been no effort, no initiative, and no striving towards excellence on the part of the beneficiaries of those sums of money, estates, and so on. The Government will have no further say and will play no further part in collecting towards Consolidated Revenue a proportion of wealth which has been gained in that way. 
I give the Senate a specific example: It seems to us extraordinary that a Government presided over by Malcolm Fraser, a Prime Minister who talked in his policy speech about what I think he called the fifth freedom, namely, the freedom to spend one's own earnings as one wishes- a government which is committed to that sort of principle- should countenance legislation such as this. For example, this legislation provides that the family of a man who might happen to fly over Western Australia in an aeroplane, see a lump of iron ore and as a consequence amass a multi-million dollar fortune- one could make some comments about the personal effort involved in acquiring that sort of fortune- could on that man's death become beneficiaries of that fortune without any portion of it coming to the Commonwealth of Australia in the form of estate or death duty. Apparently the Government sees nothing inconsistent in that. We believe that there are serious ideological inconsistencies in the Government's position on this legislation. 
It is not just the principle regarding taxes upon estates which was announced by people such as  Sir Winston  Churchill in the early years of this century, when he described these taxes as being legitimate and fair' taxes, which is important. As the late Professor Downing put it in his contribution to the book  Taxation in Australia: Agenda for Reform,  the important and quite simple fact is:   . . property confers advantages on its owner independent of and additional to the income it yields. 
Of course it does. Property confers power in Australian society. It confers the capacity to borrow money on attractive terms. It confers the capacity to involve oneself in business enterprises in a way in which that capacity is not conferred on people who are not recipients of large sums of money of that kind. So all sorts of problems flow from the amassing of wealth and the passing on of that wealth without any duty being payable to the Commonwealth Government. There are not only problems of principle, as one might put it, but also I believe there are very real practical problems when one has regard to the fact that the abolition of those duties, I understand, will leave the Australian Taxation Office in a relatively deprived position as it will not be able to obtain information about aggregations of wealth in this country compared with its present situation. 
I said that the passing of this legislation would leave this country in a unique position. I refer the Senate to some documentation in support of that argument. I shall turn firstly, to the situation in Canada but, before doing so, I remind the Senate that, as I have suggested, if this legislation is passed Australia will have one of the least equitable taxation systems in the Western world. Not only is the matter of equity important but also, as I pointed out, the matter of wealth distribution is important. After all, duties of this kind are a progressive tax; they are not regressive. Presumably in collecting revenue they have to be substituted by regressive taxes of one kind or another. 
I illustrate what I was saying about other countries by referring to Canada. When estate duty was abolished in 1972 Canada brought in a comprehensive capital gains tax at exactly the same time. That tax filled the vacuum which was left by the abolition of estate duty. Ireland, where estate duty was abolished in 1975, introduced a capital acquisitions tax- an inheritance tax, as the Irish call it- which includes gifts which had been covered by the former estate duty if made in the five years prior to the death of the donor. 
Ireland also introduced a net wealth tax and a capital gains tax. I might say that Ireland is often the butt of stories which Irishmen might properly regard as offensive and which suggest that Ireland in some way is a backward country. What will a taxation expert of international repute say about us after this legislation is passed, when he compares our situation with the situation in Ireland? There new legislation was substituted for the abolished estate duty legislation. 
-I am sorry. Perhaps I should not have said taxation expert. I probably should have said anybody with an intelligent interest in this subject matter. I was not trying to set up a jury as it were. Anyone with an intelligent interest in this matter would be capable of reaching that conclusion. 
-Yes. I turn from the Republic of Ireland to the United Kingdom which, in 1974 and 1975, replaced its estate duty with a new capital transfers tax. The new tax blocked the avoidance loopholes in the former estate duty by taxing gifts, providing for accumulation and the more effective taxation of discretionary trusts. In Finland, Denmark, Japan and Sweden the method of taxing aggregations of wealth is by a capital gains tax, with a method of deferred liability. As I understand the manner in which that system works- I gained this information from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development publication  The Taxation of Capital Gains,  published in October 1 977- the gains are not taxed at the actual death, when there is no actual realisation, but they do not escape tax altogether. The successor of the deceased is treated as having acquired the asset at the cost at which it was in fact acquired by the deceased. When the successor of the deceased disposes of the asset tax is payable on the whole of the gain arising since the deceased first purchased the asset. As I understand it, that is the method called deferred liability which applies in Denmark, Finland, Japan and Sweden and which is ancillary, as it were, to a normal capital gains tax operating in those countries. 
I have mentioned a number of countries which one might normally regard as being of equivalent economic sophistication to a country like Australia. When this legislation is passed, I think that it can properly be said that Australia is not of equivalent economic sophistication to those countries in respect of its taxation system. Of course, it is very easy for Government senators to say in this chamber: 'The tax structure in Australia is all out of kilter. It is all wrong. One of the means of reforming that tax structure is to abolish death and estate duties'. I submit that that is not an argument which has anything to do with death and estate duties. It is an argument in regard to the repeated failure of governments of various political persuasions over many years to grapple with the problem of the tax structure in this country. 
Governments have made tentative efforts to tackle the problem of the tax structure. It was perhaps first done in a significant way in 1972. The then Treasurer, the Rt  Hon.  B. M. Snedden, announced on 11 April 1972 that the Government had decided to institute a full scale public inquiry by a committee to be appointed to examine the operation of the taxation system which would put the Government in a better position to have an overall look at tax policy.  Senator Wright  and I a few days ago had what I trust was a friendly exchange about what happens to reports on matters of this kind presented to this Parliament. The committee was then set up- it subsequently became known as the Asprey Committeeby the Liberal-National Country Party Government for the specific purpose of undertaking an overall examination of tax policy. Government senators have complained in the Senate today about estate and death duty legislation which is a minuscule segment, but an important symbolic segment in my view, of overall tax policy. They justify their criticisms of the current legislation regarding estate and death duties on the basis that the whole tax structure is wrong. 
Of course, this question has to be asked: What are those same honourable senators doing about the whole tax structure? What are they doing about the report of the Asprey committee which was supposed to look at the whole tax structure in this country. When dealing particularly with the abolition of estate and death duties, the Asprey committee made one or two comments. Before referring to any specific quotations from the report of the Asprey Committee let me say this: The Committee tackled one of the problems to which I believe  Senator Messner  referred, that is, the quite important and legitimate grievance of farmers. The method of abolishing estate and death duties to solve the particular difficulties of farmers in those matters is like getting an elephant to crack a nut, if I may use that expression. The Asprey Committee took the view that all these matters could be remedied by the introduction of sensible legislation. Such legislation would alleviate the position of rural producers. As I understand it, in the view of the Asprey Committee, there is almost nothing that cannot be done by virtue of a little initiative in amending the existing legislation to assist particular situations of hardship. 
Of course, the Opposition is concerned about those particular situations of hardship. We are also concerned about the consequences of this legislation being passed through the Senate because, as I said earlier, it will allow large aggregations of wealth to slip through the net without the imposition of any duty. That is bad in principle. It is bad for society and it is something which this Government or any government ought to be prepared to tackle either while the people who collect that aggregation of wealth are alive or when they are dead. That is the important principle as we see it. 
That is so. I said earlier that Professor Downing has drawn attention to the benefits which were conferred on the holders of large sums of money in addition to the actual income from those large sums of money. The Treasury, a maligned- and sometimes properly so- but nonetheless significant and important source of Government advice on this matter, has had a number of things to say about the desirability of the abolition of estate and death duties. In Treasury taxation paper No. 1 1 , the Treasury has taken the view- it seems to me to be rather harsh- in relation to the position of farmers. 
Perhaps I could give the honourable senator the date later. I do not have a note of the date at the moment. The Treasury had this to say: 
Forced sale of farms may aid rather than hinder rural reconstruction by permitting the consolidation of small or inefficient holdings. Indeed, if the business or farm is an efficient economic unit, the liability to estate duty can usually be met by borrowing against the potential future income of the asset. 
That is a Treasury comment. I regard it as a rather cold bureaucratic sort of comment from economic advisers. Much more is involved in the problems which rural producers face than just that question of what is glibly called reconstruction. Further observations about the abolition of estate and death duties are made in other parts of the Treasury taxation paper No. 1 1 which is dated December 1 974, 1 inform  Senator Wright. Senator Georges  has just drawn the date to my attention. I refer the Senate to those statements in Treasury taxation paper No. 1 1 insofar as they deal with this specific problem. They are simply these: 
If Australia had no death duties and did not impose any other form of capital tax, Australia would be in an exceptional position on this aspect of capacity to pay. It would be the only advanced western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. 
Another portion of the document states: 
The estate duty system enables the taxpayer, after paying his income tax, to enjoy for his lifetime the benefit of any savings he makes and duty on the capital value of his estate would not be taken until after his death, when it, in effect, becomes income in a broad sense to somebody else and that somebody else bears the tax. 
The paper goes on to state: 
Estate duties are, however, important and basic in the tax system. They serve socio-economic objectives which may include the desire (i) to reduce inequalities in the distribution of wealth, or progressive growth in such inequalities, and possibly of the resulting distribution of income, and (ii) to provide a reasonable approximation to equality of opportunity for all individuals. 
I thought that those matters which I have just quoted from the Treasury taxation paper were matters to which  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was committed in 1 977.I thought that he was committed to reward for virtue and to reward for hard work. I did not believe that he was committed to very substantial rewards free of duty for no work at all. That is the effect of this legislation and that is the effect which is pointed out in the quotation which I have just read from taxation paper No. 11 of the Treasury. I have referred to three specific matters which concern the Opposition in relation to this legislation. It is wrong in principle for the reason which I have just illustrated by way of the quotations from the Treasury papers, it is contrary to the advice of the Government 's own advisers in terms of the report of the Asprey Committee, which was to have an overall look at tax policy in Australia, and it is totally contrary to the advice of the Treasury paper on estate duty and gift duty. I repeat that it is wrong in principle and it is contrary to the advice of those two papers to which I referred. 
As well as being wrong in principle and contrary to that advice it is totally contrary to the experience of the other members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries and all other countries of equivalent economic sophistication in the Western world. While the citadels of capitalism, as some people on the far Left might call them, like the United States and similar countries are going one way Australia is going the other way in relation to this matter. While they are introducing wealth taxes and while they are introducing a capital gains tax, we are by this legislation abolishing the last vestige of tax on the aggregations of wealth in this country. That is the third reason why we oppose the legislation. It is wrong in principle, it is contrary to advice received and it is contrary to the experience of all other member countries of the OECD and the Western world. It is contrary to the experience of the other countries to which I have referred. 
Fourthly, we say that it is wrong in the light of the Fraser Government's own rationale and it is wrong in the light of the Fraser Government's own philosophy as we are capable of divining it from the policy speech and as we are capable of understanding it. This is not what the people of Australia were promised. As I have said, they were promised a reward for work and not the abolition of a form of taxation as a reward for no work, which is precisely what they are getting as a result of this legislation. The fact of the matter is that the introduction of this legislation is one of the very few policy speech promises which the Prime Minister of this country has kept. Why has he kept this one? Because, as he put it in his policy speech, estate duty has caused distress and hardship to thousands of Australian families, to small businesses and to farmers. So what! So has taxation. The whole taxation system in this country has caused distress to all of those people. The Government is not going to solve the basic problem just by fiddling around with estate duty so that people can aggregate wealth. The fact of the matter is that the abolition of estate duty and probate duty has become a popular and fashionable issue- a band wagon on which  Mr Fraser  has jumped or a wagon to which he has hitched his star. 
I only have suspicions about it but quite early in the piece, a few years ago, an organisation known as the Women's Electoral Lobby, whichI regard as an important and exemplary organisation in Australian society and an organisation which has made a vital contribution to the democratic life of this country, became hung up about the abolition of death duty between spouses. The members of that organisation suddenly got it into their heads that the little woman should get it all without any government interference, without any death duty or estate duty being payable. For some reason the  Mrs Lang  Hancocks of this world, if there is such a person, should get all the multi-million dollars that her husband earned so hard by flying over Western Australia in an aeroplane! They said she should get it all because it was only fair to her to have it all. Of all people, the first person to catch up with this cry from the Women's Electoral Lobby was  Mr BjelkePetersen  in Queensland. He was one of the first people to introduce this type of legislation and it is now- if I might paraphrase the Bible- more difficult for a rich man to get into Surfers Paradise because of the abolition of this legislation than it is for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. Surfers Paradise has been crowded out by people who have gone there to avoid the death duties applicable in other States. The abolition of those duties is fashionable. As  Senator Messner  said,  Mr Wran  will abolish the payment of death duties in New South Wales. Perhaps the Tasmanian Government will abolish them. All these things-- 
-I will wait until the Tasmanian Budget is brought down and then see what happens. The fact of the matter is that all I said is that it is possible that the Tasmanian Government will abolish death duties. I am sorry if I was misinterpreted in any way. The fact of the matter is that the abolition of death duties is very fashionable.  Mr Fraser  caught the fashionable mood and decided that this was one way of explaining to the world his sympathy and concern for all those people about whom he talked in his policy speech. All I am saying is that it is a phoney way of showing his sympathy and concern. If he really wants to show it he should grapple with the issues which are raised in the Asprey Committee's report and not do it in this way. THe fact that State governments regard it as fashionable to abolish death duties, the fact that schmaltzy sorts of cases can be made out about it by individual groups in this community, is not a reason for doing it when one considers the principles involved, when one considers the rationale of this Government in terms of its own policies, when one considers what is happening overseas and when one considers what the advice of this Government has been. In those circumstances the Opposition opposes the legislation. We think that death and estate duty should be abolished only in the context of introducing some other tax on wealth in this community for the very real reason that, as we all know and perhaps sometimes like to forget, the very possession of wealth does not mean just that one has more money to spend. It means that one is a much more powerful and influential citizen in this country. That is something with which we have to concern ourselves. 
The honourable senator ought to try it some time. He might do better than he has done to date. The fact of the matter is that it is true. It is true in terms of the statements of the honourable senator's leader.  Senator Lewis  ought to make a special effort to try to reconcile his own silly interjection with  Mr Fraser's  policy speech. It will be an interesting exercise indeed. The Opposition opposes the legislation for the four basic reasons which I have indicated in the course of my contribution to this debate. 
-The Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills. As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  stated in his second reading speech, the purpose of both Bills in the different areas of education is to amend the relevant Acts to provide, as it were, topping up grants in respect of education expenditure for the last year. In the case of schools, the legislation finalises the adjustment of 1977 grants for cost increases to December 1977. It makes additional grants for 1978 of $15. 8m to cover some cost increases and it is assumed that that process will be taken forward in the Budget session. In that sense, these Bills strictly are machinery Bills. Insofar as tertiary education is concerned, the Bills also provide supplementation for cost movements from July to December 1977. That is the purpose of the legislation and because it is confined to that purpose, as I indicated, the Opposition does not oppose either of the Bills. 
While speaking about the question of education funding, I take the opportunity to make one or two comments about the situation of schools, and perhaps the tertiary education area, in relation to funding. I assume that shortly the Minister will be issuing guidelines in relation to funding schools and the Schools Commission report, preliminary to the 1978 Budget. The Opposition's concern is that in issuing those guidelines the Minister will take account of the needs as expressed in the Schools Commission report, both in respect of recurrent funding and capital funding, particularly the needs of government schools. It is to be hoped also that the Minister will take account of the expressed views relating to the needs of the tertiary education area of universities and other institutions, particularly in relation to capital expenditure. 
On a number of occasions during Question Time and discussion in this chamber, the Minister has drawn attention to the Government's overall economic policy. It is not my purpose to debate the validity or otherwise of that policy in the course of comments on these Bills. But I would remind the Minister that a government must decide on the priorities in order to spend that money which is available. I find it extraordinary that the Government is able to find up to $100m for the proposed Casey University, which represents an expenditure on a potential 1,240 students. Some noises about suggest that the Government may not be able to find the funds necessary to fulfil the Schools Commission recommendations or to meet even some of the requirements of other tertiary education institutions in Australia. Of course it may be said that that ordering of priorities is not the Minister's responsibility. That is my very strong suspicion: It is not the Minister's responsibility; but it is the Government's responsibility. 
It is also the Government's responsibility to generally allocate expenditure for capital works. Having regard to recent survey material, to material contained in the Schools Commission report and to the expressed need of the schools system, it might well be recommended to the Government through the Minister that a very substantial proportion of the Government 's capital works program should be devoted to schools because, whatever the current economic difficulties, I think the Minister would share the view that the long-term wealth of this country in a very real sense depends on the education system, the way in which it works and the product of it. In 1978 the Commonwealth made $ 139m available for school buildings out of a total school building program of $439m. That figure represented $60 per pupil given by the Commonwealth Government and $130 per pupil from the States. For non-government schools in the same period in 1978 Commonwealth capital grants total $3 1.39m, or approximately $50 per pupil. So the Government was involved in quite a substantial degree of expenditure in respect of both government and non-government sector, but it was a relatively small expenditure compared with that of the States. 
In spite of that expenditure, there is no doubt that funds provided for government school capital works have fallen far short of meeting the needs of the State education systems, especially in relation to the urgent upgrading needs and the replacement of old schools. That matter of course is perfectly obvious to anybody who visits a number of schools in this country, particularly in inner metropolitan areas of the big cities, because there is still a pressing need for the upgrading of those old schools, which involves a higher level of expenditure on capital works. In dealing with this matter, the Schools Commission reported that school building programs for the 1976-78 triennium were running at levels which allowed for only 52 per cent of needed new schools, 28 per cent of needed extensions, 22 per cent of replacements and 7 per cent of major upgrading projects. These capital requirements are so in spite of the fact that the enrolment situation in our schools is static. 
I do not wish to canvass the whole question across the spectrum of needs. I just want to establish that as far as the Opposition is concerned, when one is considering this sort of legislation, it is appropriate to draw attention to the very pressing needs of the schools system and of the tertiary education system. I know that the Minister for Education is aware of these needs. I know that he has received representations from many people and organisations which have drawn his attention to these needs. In no sense do I criticise the Minister for non-awareness of the sorts of problems with which the education system is confronted. But I point out that he is part of the Government which determines priorities in expenditure. As I said earlier in another text, in my view some of the priorities which the 
Government has arrived at are quite extraordinary. In our view it is quite extraordinary that the Government can spend about $ I billion on various allowances, the names of which temporarily elude me, in concessions to business. But if some of the reports about the place are to be believed, it is not able to find the necessary money to tackle some of the problems to which I have referred. It is even more extraordinary that it can find the money for an extraordinarily indulgent and extravagant institution like the Casey University Military Academy, as I understand it is to be called, and still leave the needs problems in Australian schools, to which I have referred, not tackled in the way in which they ought to be tackled. I use this opportunity to express concern about this question of priorities. Otherwise the Opposition supports the legislation and commends the Bills to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that the guidelines issued by the Tertiary Education Commission on 3 June 1977 for the 1978-80 triennium specified that there would be no new universities or colleges of advanced education established during the triennium? If so, why is it intended to establish Casey University and was the decision to establish that university in the purview of the Tertiary Education Commission when those guidelines were prepared? 
-In view of the fact that the Government intends to bring down legislation on this matter, the Opposition will not, through me, make any detailed comment about the contents of the statement which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has just made to the Senate. If I might, however, I will make one or two brief observations. In the last part of the statement the Minister said: 
I have informed the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University, the Principal of the Canberra College of Advanced Education ... of the Government's decision. 
The Opposition would be interested to know what consultations took place between people such as the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University, the other people mentioned and the Government in relation to this matter. If there is a fundamental criticism of the approach of the Government it is that, as a result of its own internal political pressures, it has decided to use a steamroller to crack a nut. The fact of the matter is that at the ANU, for example, the question of consciencious objection is catered for already, as I understand it, by the provision of an appeals tribunal of which  Senator Rae  is a member. As I recall Professor Molony and the Vice-Chancellor of the University are also members. 
It seems quite possible that the Government could have thought about developing by consultation machinery of this kind to solve what the Government sees as a problem relating to conscientious objection. If it had embarked upon that course it could not be accused of interfering in the freedom and independence of universities, as it will be accused as a result of this statement and the legislation which, presumably, is to follow in the Budget session. 
I appreciate  Senator Walters'  generosity but it has nothing to do with the point I am making. There are one or two other minor points that one might make about the Minister's statement. I do not know why this Government always is concerned to apply selective criteria to particular situations about which it becomes agitated as a result of representations by the Young Liberals organisation or bodies of that kind. An example of the selective criteria which are applied her is that the council of a university shall not authorise a students representative council to expend money unless that council is elected by one quarter of the students entitled to vote. From where is that magical figure plucked? From where is that magical criterion plucked? Does this Government apply that sort of provision to trade unions in its industrial legislation? Of course not. It would not have a bar of it because it knows that it would not get away with it. Does it apply that sort of provision to its own councils as a government? Does it apply it to the Liberal Party? Does it apply it to companies in relation to shareholders? Does it apply it to any corporations in Australia? Of course it does not. It plucks out of the air this extraordinary criterion in relation to student organisations, presumably on the basis of some view of patronage to student organisations and the nature of public concern about student organisations. 
All sorts of criticisms can be made of this rather slapdash statement, which is an emotional response to emotional considerations in universities. For that reason, we regret that the Government has taken this course, and I hope the Minister will be careful to note that in criticising the way in which the matter has been handled I have said nothing critical of the notion of conscientious objection and I do not intend to do so. Nonetheless, we say that the response to the problem is a slapdash and inadequate one, full of strange criteria that are not applied by this Government in other situations and have not been applied by any government in this sort of situation. Having said that, we will await with interest the contents of the legislation in the perhaps vain hope that in some respects it may reflect some of the observations that have been made about the statement the Minister has just brought down. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  3) 1977-78  In Committee 
Consideration resumed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Teasurer. What importance does he attach to the amount of overtime worked, as an economic indicator, and how does he interpret the latest figures on overtime worked as - 

I am sorry. The average overtime worked has fallen from 2.6 hours in January 1978 to 2. 1 hours in March 1978. That is sometimes interpreted by some economists as a significant decline, and I ask the Minister for his interpretation of it. 
-The Opposition senators who are on the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs associate themselves with the remarks made by  Senator Missen  in bringing down this report. I would like to add one comment which I did not hear from  Senator Missen  but which may have been made in the most comprehensive statement that he read. The Committee found itself particularly helped in this inquiry by Government departments which put in very thoughtful but lengthy submissions. The Committee was able to arouse interest in a subject which might appear to be a dry and dull one and to obtain a response from a number of departments which, as I have said, has been very helpful. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Missen)  agreed to: 
That the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-Is the Attorney-General now aware that the Prime Minister was told by 

 Senator Withers on 1 7 January of his action in telephoning  Mr Pearson  in relation to the change of the name of the seat from Gold Coast to McPherson? Is it a fact that the AttorneyGeneral first became aware of  Senator Withers'  action in telephoning  Mr Pearson  on this name change only after the Attorney-General's report was tabled in Parliament? Was this information passed on to the Attorney-General by the Prime Minister, who evidently had the information on 1 7 January, at any stage earlier than the tabling of the Attorney-General 's report in Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) What is the size of the Commonwealth Police Force at the present time. 
What has been the rate of growth of the Commonwealth Police Force in each year since 1972. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. We are of the view that they should prove useful in correcting deficiencies in the existing legislation. I remind the Senate that when similar legislation was sought by the Labor Government it was rejected by the Senate. The legislation now before the Senate is almost identical with the legislation which the Labor Government introduced and which was rejected. It just shows - 

 - Senator O'Byrne says that it shows complete hypocrisy. That is a view with which I could not possibly disagree. It also shows the ineffable process of conservatism in this country. It takes the present Government five years to think about something before any action emanates from the decision-making process. We take the view that the Government should consider applying the money which it gets from licence fees from radio and television station fees more specifically in the area of broadcasting itself than it does. To give an illustration of that, there is ample room for both government and private broadcasters to put far more money into Australian programs than they presently do. There is room for the Government, perhaps by means of subsidy or in connection with these licence fees, to create a stimulus and an incentive for commercial broadcasters to invest more in Australian programs. 
For a year the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has been inquiring into the question of children's television programming in Australia. Whatever conclusions the Committee might draw, there is no doubt that there is widespread dissatisfaction with the quality of children's television programming. When one compares the quality of Australian children's television with the quality of children's television overseas the deficiency in the provision of good quality children 's television programs in this country is seen. If the Government comes to think about amendments to this legislation in the next five years as it has in the last five years - 

 -For Senator Withers' benefit, I mean for the first two years of the next five years. Even when the present Government is in Opposition it can do what we have been doing. It can provide some sort of intellectual stimulation to the Government. Not that I believe that  Senator Withers  would contribute to that, but it is quite conceivable that there are one or twocertainly not three- honourable senators on the Government side who, when in Opposition might be able to provide some sort of intellectual stimulation to a Labor government in matters of this kind. 
-I could not agree with  Senator Mulvihill  more. A couple of senators opposite who are members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, I must say, do not attend meetings very often. If they did attend they would be seized of the problem which I am talking about and they might make some sort of contribution towards this area of quality in Australian television programming. We are constantly told in this place by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that what the people of Australia are saying to him about education is that they do not want so much quantity, as he puts it, but they want quality. 
I agree they would not get it from over there. I have always marvelled at the Minister's capacity to divine what the people of Australia are telling him about that issue and I have always been totally nonplussed about what he means by that statement. It is one of those statements which if you sit down to try to analyse it is totally meaningless. I think it is pretty fair to say that there is much more evidence that people in Australia are looking for better quality in television programs. Those honourable senators on the Government side who do not read the newspapers or the reports that are tabled in the Senate, or documents of that kind, might sometimes as a form of relaxation watch television. They would recognise from watching television that the standard of Australian programming is really pretty abysmal. They also would realise, if they considered the matter, that television stations in this country are making record profits at this time. Having regard to the fact that they enjoy a sort of monopoly situation, that they enjoy a unique position in this country compared with their counterparts in other countries, they have some responsibility to the Australian community in terms of the quality and the range and breadth of their productions. 
So I take this opportunity to say that although the Opposition is not opposing these Bills the Government would be well advised to think a little further about how it uses the money which is obtained from radio and television licence fees. If the Government wants a suggestion from the Opposition about how it might use the money, one suggestion would be that the Government could, by means of this son of legislation, offer some son of stimulus by way of an incentive such as a rebate or even a subsidy to commercial television stations and perhaps even to radio stations that do make a sincere and genuine contribution towards the production of better quality Australian programs, particularly better quality children 's television programs. Having made that point, I commend the legislation to the Senate. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 978: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of Chapter 3 'Children at Risk ' of the fifth main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty,  Poverty and Education in Australia,  presented to the Prime Minister on 13 August 1976, have been accepted by the Government, and which were rejected. 
Of those accepted, to what extent has each been implemented. 
For each of those recommendations where action by a Commonwealth statutory authority, or State or other nonCommonwealth authority, is required for implementation, what action has been taken by the Government to bring recommendations to the notice of the appropriate authority, or otherwise encourage, secure, or facilitate implementation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 978: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of Chapter 2, ' Unequal Outcomes of Schooling', of the fifth main Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty,  Poverty and Education in Australia,  presented to the Prime Minister on 13 August 1976, have been accepted by the Government, and which were rejected. 
Of those accepted, to what extent has each been implemented. 
For each of those recommendations where action by a Commonwealth statutory authority, or State or other nonCommonwealth authority, is required for implementation, what action has been taken by the Government to bring the recommendations to the notice of the appropriate authority, or otherwise encourage, secure, or facilitate implementation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of Chapter 4 'School Policy', of the fifth main Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty,  Poverty and Education in Australia,  presented to the Prime Minister on 13 August 1976, have been accepted by the Government, and which were rejected. 
Of those accepted, to what extent has each been implemented. 
3 ) For each of those recommendations where action by a Commonwealth statutory authority, or State or other nonCommonwealth authority, is required for implementation, what action has been taken by the Government to bring the recommendations to the notice of the appropriate authority, or otherwise encourage, secure, or facilitate implementation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of Chapter 5 'Learning and Work', of the fifth main Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty,  Poverty and Education in Australia,  presented to the Prime Minister on 13 August 1976, have been accepted by the Government, and which were rejected. 
Of those accepted, to what extent has each been implemented. 
For each of those recommendations where action by a Commonwealth statutory authority, or State or other nonCommonwealth authority, is required for implementation, what action has been taken by the Government to bring to the notice of the appropriate authority, or otherwise encourage, secure, or facilitate implementation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1978: 
I ) Which of the recommendations of Chapter 6, 'Aboriginal Education', of the fifth main Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty,  Poverty and Education in Australia,  presented to the Prime Minister on 13 August 1976, have been accepted by the Government, and which were rejected. 
Of those accepted, to what extent has each been implemented. 
For each of those recommendations where action by a Commonwealth Statutory Authority or State, or other nonCommonwealth authority is required for implementation, what action has been taken by the Government to bring the recommendations to the notice of the appropriate authority, or otherwise encourage, secure, or facilitate implementation. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) Under what conditions is the Secondary Allowance Benefit, for students in years eleven and twelve of school, payable to students who live independently of their parents. 
Have the provisions in relation to the payment of this allowance been changed in 1978; if so, what changes have been made, and why. 
How many applications for Secondary Allowance Benefit for students living independently are awaiting consideration by the Department, and when will they be dealt with. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to his statement in this chamber last week relating to student organisations. I ask: Did he at the beginning of March 1976 write to the Secretary of the Western Australian division of the Liberal Party saying that the problems of student organisations were matters for universities themselves to resolve and that the cure, if any cure were needed, in relation to student organisation problems was the same as the cure for problems within the trade union movement, that is, it must originate from the members themselves? If the Minister did write such a letter at the beginning of March 1976, what peculiar circumstances have arisen since then which have led him to change his mind? 
J  ask the Minister for Education: Has his Department any information available to it about concealed unemployment in schools? I refer to people in the last year of schooling who have remained at school because they are unable to obtain employment. Is the Minister aware of surveys compiled by State governments in relation to this matter and what information is in the possession of the Federal Government? 
-! am sorry to inform the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  that I am not a senator who is ashamed of himself according to the criteria which he lays down for the Senate. We are debating the concealment by Ministers in this Government of certain facts relating to the redistribution in Queensland.  Senator Withers  came into the chamber today and said that he had neither the time, the inclination nor the energy to debate this matter. He has not answered any of the allegations which have been put by my leader,  Senator Wriedt,  except for one footling little point which he picked up in order to try to discredit the major points which  Senator Wriedt  made, none of which the Minister saw fit to deal with. 
Clearly we have touched a raw nerve.  Senator Withers  came into the chamber a fortnight ago and said that he did not wish to hide anything, or to hide behind the sub judice rule. Now he comes in here and refuses to answer any questions on this matter. He refuses to answer the points made by  Senator Wriedt.  He is hiding behind the sub judice rule and putting the Senate in a totally absurd position when compared with the rest of the community. The only 64 people in this country who cannot debate these issues freely are the 64 members of the Senate. That is the position we have come to at the hands of  Senator Withers  who, a fortnight ago, said that he did not wish to hide anything from the Senate. By God, the record since a fortnight ago speaks for itself. Every effort has been made to hide every single fact in relation to this matter. I believe the Opposition is entitled to look at a government which, except for three years between 1972 and 1975, has been in office for a long time. We are entitled to look at the standards of that Government. We are entitled to quote  Senator Withers.  In 1975, when referring to the Australian Labor Party Government, he said that the whole operation was a cover up. He stated: 
The Prime Minister said yesterday that there are ample procedures in the Parliament for Ministers to be questioned. If one had the time to go through  Hansard  one would see questions unanswered for month after month after month. 
The same sort of thing has been happening in the Senate and in the House of Representatives in the last few weeks. The concealment of facts is at issue in this matter of public importance which has been moved by the Opposition. I refer to  Senator Withers,  who now has left the chamber after a memorable non-contribution to this debate, to what he said about concealment in 1975. He stated: 
Too many other things have happened in this Parliament which have proved that things just do not go away until everything is laid on the table for open and full inspection. 
That is the standard of  Senator Withers  in 1975. Honourable senators saw the standard of  Senator Withers  in 1978 in his contribution to this debate today. He does not want any more facts laid on the table. There are enough facts there already to cause him grave concern. It is about those facts that the Opposition is concerned. Let us look at the view of  Senator Webster,  another Minister, on this same question. He is in the chamber today. What did he have to say about this son of thing in 1975? With a degree of great piety, as I recall it at the time, he said: 
The fact is that evidence on this matter has had to be dragged out of the Ministers day after day. They should be on their feet apologising for the abject faults and falsehoods that they have brought into this Parliament. If they are not ashamed of themselves they ought to be . . . A leader with any respect for his own image would declare immediately in this Parliament that he had misled the Parliament, although perhaps unintentionally. Surely those who have followed the disgrace and discharge of the various Ministers during these past months must endorse my comment that any leader with any respect for his own image would resign immediately. 

 Senator Wright interjected: 
Under the principle of responsibility in government. 
That is a matter about which he is selectively concerned.  Senator Webster  said: 

 Senator Wright is quite correct in what he has said. 

 Senator Webster thought  Senator Wright  was correct in 1975; but let us look at the situation in 1978. The facts are quite simple. In September 1977 the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  phoned  Mr Pearson,  the Chief Electoral Officer of Australia, and requested him to speak to  Mr Coleman,  the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commissioners in Queensland, regarding the name of the seat Gold Coast.  Mr Pearson  did that, as requested. On 27 October- a month later- after he had phoned  Mr Pearson, Senator Withers  said in this Senate that he should not be involved in the naming of electorates. I should like to refer to his words which are in the  Hansard  record of that day. He said: 
Whilst as a senator I have a duty and a right to look at the electoral boundaries under the Act, I do not carry that so far as to believe that I ought to become involved in the names of the electorates. 
He said that in October 1977, knowing that a month before he had become involved in the naming of electorates by phoning  Mr Pearson.  On 3 November of the same year, 1977,  Mr Kevin  Cairns of the House of Representatives referred to influence from 'on high' in relation to this matter. On 4 November,  Senator Withers  went out of his way to volunteer to this chamber that he had not phoned  Mr Coleman.  He said he did not know why the name of the electorate was changed. We dealt with that in a previous debate in this' Senate. Subsequent to that, there was a variety of meetings of Ministers. 
On 17 January 1978  Senator Withers,  the Minister for Administrative Services, told the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of this country that he had been involved in changing the name of the seat of Gold Coast to McPherson. He told the Prime Minister that he had spoken to  Mr Pearson  on 17 January 1978. 
On 18 January 1978, at a meeting in the Prime Minister's office to discuss what  Senator Withers  has called 'this vexed question', the SolicitorGeneral was asked to give a legal opinion about the matter. From then on, there were a series of meetings at the Lodge and elsewhere again to discuss the vexed question. On 9 February and 15 February two reports were prepared by the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General. I want to refer to those reports because in the second report, particularly, they dealt with the question of the change of name. I should like to quote what was said in the second report about this question. This appears at page 10: 
Fundamental to the complaint is the change of name of the present McPherson from Gold Coast to Fadden and finally to McPherson. That the name was thrice changed rests only on rumour. Nonetheless, we shall assume that it occurred. That the change was procured by means which the Statute forbids is in truth a matter of speculation, however sincerely entertained. 
Later in the same report, in summary,  they stated: 
. it is unlikely that the Commissioners improperly changed the name Gold Coast to Fadden and finally McPherson being, as they were, all the time aware that the right of nomination was for the Parliament and not for them. There is, indeed, no evidence of any communication with them outside the statutory procedures. 
They were the remarks of the Attorney-General, the chief law officer of this country, in an opinion on 9 February. He did not know, presumably- I respect the integrity of the AttorneyGeneralthat the Minister for Administrative Services had informed the Prime Minister of this country already that he was involved in the change of name. That was the position of the AttorneyGeneral on 9 February. I should like to refer to the remarks of the Prime Minister of this country on 10 April in referring to that set of facts. The Prime Minister had this to say: 
The honourable member for Fadden has made some additional information available to this House. Thus the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General have been invited to examine that material and any other material that the honourable member for Fadden, or for that matter, any other honourable member of this House, might wish to place before them, and, in the light of that, report to the Government on the proper course to pursue. 
The Prime Minister of this country said that in the House of Representatives on 10 April of this year, knowing that his own Attorney-General and Solicitor-General had put down the report to which I have referred, knowing that on 17 January he had been informed by the Minister for Administrative Services of his involvement in the change of name. The Prime Minister invited, and I use his words, 'any other honourable member', which presumably excludes himself, because he had information which he did not put before the House, which he did not put before the Attorney-General prior to that report. He should have said 'any honourable member other than the Prime Minister', because he did not give information to the Attorney-General, to the Parliament or to other members of his Government that he knew was vitally important to the whole question. Then we had  Senator Withers'  letter of 2 1 April to  Senator Durack.  Lawyers should look at that letter and at its terminology. It is a fascinating document if ohe has ever practised in the courts of petty sessions. It is a really interesting piece of terminology. The letter was written on 2 1 April, and that was probably the first time that the Attorney-General fully understood what had been going on. 
The conclusions one can draw at this stage, and certainly in the Budget session 1 will accept  Senator Withers'  kind invitation to debate the question again, are simply these:  Senator Withers  in the greatest understatement of this session- a characteristic understatement from him- may have misled the Parliament. That is the first conclusion that can be drawn. The second conclusion that can be drawn is that "the Prime Minister of this country bung his own Attorney-General on a limb because he did not reveal to him a material fact about which the Attorney-General was required to give a legal opinion, a material fact with which the AttorneyGeneral and the Solicitor-General had to deal. The Prime Minister did not reveal that fact to him. He hoped that it would remain concealed. The key point,in all that is what the Prime Minister said in the House* In effect, any honourable member can put his views in relation to this matter; he retains his right not to put a view in relation to this matter. The clear conclusion one can draw from that is that not only did the Prime Minister deceive other colleagues but also he deceived his own Attorney-General, and that is documented in answers that the AttorneyGeneral has given in this place. Of course, when all the Ministers were meeting at the Lodge to discuss the matter, and there was quite a group of them, and  Senator Withers  told them what he had done, they said: 'So what?' That is not the name of a gardening program on the ABC, as many people think; it is a important comment on this event. 'So what', they said, because they thought at that stage that  Senator Withers  would never get caught. That is what 'So what' amounts to- that  Senator Withers  would never get caught. 
I said at the beginning of my remarks that we are entitled to refer to the sort of standards that the Liberal Party of this country purported to lay down over the years about how Ministers should behave in relation to Parliament, in relation to their own colleagues, and particularly in relation to this Senate. There has been a clear pattern of concealment, which of course involves  Senator Withers,  but I predict that  Senator Withers  will be perfectly safe because the only man who can deal with him is himself up to his chin in this matter- the Prime Minister of this country. So there is a whole process of concealment involving a number of Ministers, lt is for that reason that the Opposition is concerned to raise this issue in the Senate on the last day of this session. Of course we will raise it again on subsequent days in subsequent sessions because this is a matter which, to use  Senator Withers'  own words, is just not going to go away' without a full revelation of the facts. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Have any guidelines or other instructions been issued by the Government or by any statutory body to tertiary education institutions on the admission of students from oversea's; if so, what instructions or guidelines have been issued. 
Is an interdepartmental committee currently considering the question of admission of overseas students. 
Has any report been made by the committee and has any change been made as a result of the committee's deliberations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
What were the contribution rates charged by Australia 's largest private health funds in all States of Australia and its Territories in the period from 1 October 1976 to 24 May 1978. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Which are the 'other developed nations' of which the Minister claimed, in his statement of 3 February 1978 upon his return from the Australian Education Council, that class sizes are comparable to those in Australia. 
Will the Minister provide a list of the nations, and their class sizes, on which his statement was based. 
Will the Minister also list pupil/teacher ratios in those nations. 
Is the basis of computation of pupil/teacher ratios in each of those countries the same as in Australia; if not, will the Minister give details, in each case, of how it differs. 
In particular, are principals, deputies, occupants of other promotion positions, professional support staff not based in schools, and on leave, included as teachers for purposes of calculating pupil/teacher ratios. 
What is the distribution of class sizes in Australia in each of the Government, non-Government non-Catholic, and non-Government Catholic sectors, in both primary and secondary schools. 
If comprehensive information on (6) is not available, will the Minister give whatever information is available. 
What is the distribution of class size in the nations to which the Minister referred in his statement of 3 February 1978. 
What are the specific responses made by each State in the area of future supply and demand for teachers, referred to in the Minister's statement of 3 February 1 978. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government conducted an evaluation of the Child Migrant Education Program; if so: (a) what are the results of the evaluation; and (b) were ethnic communities consulted in relation to it; if so, which communities. 
What arrangements have been made by the Commonwealth Government to fund Child Migrant Education programs on a State basis. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) When was the Language Teaching Branch of the Education Department established. 
What is the structure and who are the personnel of the branch. 
) What are the functions of the branch. 
Have the structure, personnel, and functions of the Language Teaching Branch been re-examined since its establishment; if so, when. 
Does the Language Teaching Branch consult with any of the following organisations concerning the applicability of the material if produces: (a) ethnic organisations; (b) subject teacher associations; (c) teachers involved with Teaching English as a Second Language program in the classroom; (d) child migrant consultants in the States; (e) teacher organisations; or  (0  parent organisations; if so, which specific organisations are consulted. 
What has been the method of consultation with the organisations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What was the total cost and the cost per head of unemployment benefits paid to juniors in each of the financial years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on  24  May  1 978- 
What sums were paid under each Schools Commission program for each government and non-government school in the Electoral Divisions of Casey, Diamond Valley and Deakin in the calendar years 1976 and 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
On how many occasions since 1 January 1976 has notice in writing to the Trade Practices Commission by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs pursuant to paragraph 90 (9) (a) and (b) of the Trade Practices Act 1 974 been sought in respect of the acquisition of shares in the capital, or assets, or bodies corporate. 
On how many occasions has the Minister given notice in respect of such acquisitions. 
) What were the names of the persons or bodies corporate seeking to acquire the assets or shares and of the bodies corporate in which they were seeking to acquire the assets or shares (a) in each case for which notice was given; and (b) in each case in which notice was refused. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
Is the Minister in the process of deciding if the Intensive Japanese Course at the Australian National University can bc approved for Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS) grants; if so, when is the Minister's decision expected to be made. 
I present the following petition from 2,40 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Association of New South Wales showeth: 
That as citizens of New South Wales and the parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government Schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Here follow the signatures: 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
1 ) What was (a) the total value of Commonwealth support; and (b) the value of such support per student for: (a) Universities, (b) Colleges of advanced education, and (c) technical colleges for each of the financial years 1974-75, 1 975-76 and 1976-77. 
What was the total level of State support for technical colleges, and the per head level, for the same years. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the statement that he made yesterday in relation to ministerial arrangements. Is  Senator Durack  a member of the Cabinet and, if not, what is the order of precedence of Ministers in the Senate? For example, is a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet, senior to one who is? 
I am a member of the Privileges Committee which dealt with this matter. The Senate will recall that the matter referred to the Senate Privileges Committee was the appropriate means of ensuring the security of Parliament House. As a member of the Committee, I have some hesitation about commending the report of the Committee; but I think I can fairly say that it is a careful report and perhaps the reference to the Committee performed a useful function in that it enabled the 
Committee, in the cold light of day, to look at a number of matters which had been the subject of some heat at the time. 
The Senate will recall- I shall use that old 25 April expression 'Lest We Forget'- that the reference of this matter was occasioned by the incident known as the Hilton bombing. As a result of that a high degree of political neurosis developed in Australia, perhaps in an artificial way. This Parliament was singled out as a likely target for a terrorist attack. Security arrangements at the time of the opening of the Thirty-first Parliament resulted in my colleague  Senator Georges,  who sits beside me here- a splendid example of Australian Greek manhood and a member of this Senate- not being admitted to the Australian Parliament.  Senator Grimes,  who sits alongside me, likewise was not admitted. That engendered a great deal of nervousness in me because I sit between these two honourable senators. Accordingly, I was happy to participate in the work of the Privileges Committee looking into the question of the security of Parliament House. 
It will be recalled that following the Hilton bombing and the ceremonies which took place here in Parliament there were a number of instances of the kind to which I have referred.  Mr President,  you as a presiding officer, together with your counterpart in the House of Representatives,  Sir Billy  Snedden, laid down certain procedures which it was intended should be followed in relation to the security of Parliament House. I refer the Senate to some of the increased protection measures which were seen to be necessary at that time but which were not referred to in the tabled statement. For example, it was suggested that persons entering the public galleries of the chambers should pass through detection equipment similar to that now used at airports. There was a suggestion that the side doors on the lower floor of the building be locked regularly with deadlocks and alarm systems. I understand that that has happened. At one stage there was an attempt- which was resisted on the Opposition side by me and on the Government side by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)-  to have the outside doors on the front verandah of the main floor of the building locked and sealed. I know nothing about the perks of being  Deputy  Prime Minister, but I can assure honourable senators that one of the best things about being  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate is that one has a door that enables one to escape some of the dreadful atmosphere of this building- I speak of the physical atmosphere, of course- by opening that door. We would have been deprived of those sorts of privileges, which seemed to be properly so-called, if the sort of hysteria which caused such measures to be suggested at the time had been allowed to continue. 
The Privileges Committee considered this matter. It is of extraordinary interest that in view of all the fuss at the time the Privileges Committee asked people who were desperately concerned or professed to being desperately concerned about this matter to give evidence to the Committee about their concerns. The report which is before the Senate lists the witnesses who appeared. Not one senator or one member of the House of Representatives gave evidence. 
Evidence was given by  Mr Fleming  and  Mr Worth  and not by  Senator Georges,  the reluctant witness.  
The burden of  Senator  Georges' objection and the reason he did not give evidence is that he was required to make a written submission first. This is probably a matter which ought to be referred to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister for Education dealing with literacy and numeracy matters. The threat of having to put in a written submission was obviously something that caused  Senator Georges  to be, as lawyers would say, in terrorem and persuaded him not to give evidence. 
I do not know  Senator Webster's  views. I do not remember his submission being drawn to the Committee's attention. Perhaps that was an oversight. The report would no doubt have been different if it had been. The people who gave evidence included the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers, Mr Bullock,  the  Deputy Clerk  of the Senate and  Mr Smith,  the Usher of the Black Rod. One of the interesting things which the Privileges Committee learnt from those witnesses- this is an important matter relating to the precincts of Parliament House- is that the precincts of Parliament House had never been properly defined. That matter is referred to in the report of the Privileges Committee. The importance of that point in relation to the security of the Parliament is, of course, that before we lay down any provisions we have to determine what we intend to secure. 
As I have said, the report of the Committee refers to a need to define the parliamentary precincts. This is based on the evidence of the  Clerk,  the  Deputy Clerk  and the Usher of the Black Rod. There are references in the report to the procedure at Westminster and a suggestion that in the Australian context at least some effort should be made to see that the same police force is responsible for the protection of the Parliament inside and outside. That is a suggestion which I recall being made in the days of the Labor Government by the former Leader of the Government in the Senate, now  Mr Justice  Murphy. It was not acceded to at that time, but the Senate Privileges Committee has now seen fit to make a recommendation on that point. There is a recommendation for the appointment of a parliamentary security co-ordinator. 
The report contains a number of other recommendations which I refer to honourable senators because they are of relevance to them personally. There is a suggestion that senators and members should wear some form of identification badge. In general, it would probably be a commendable practice, but the ups and down of political fortunes are such that there are certain occasions when people would not wish to be identified by the public as members of Parliament. There are also some suggestions regarding the identification of visitors who come into the Parliament and an important recommendation that in the Committee's opinion it is most undesirable that the entrance doors of Parliament House should appear to be garrisoned by groups of officers. Honourable senators will recall that prior to the deliberations of the Privileges Committee it appeared as though one was entering a defence establishment or some such building because of the number of police officers and other officers on duty at the doors. 
In an earlier debate on a similar matter I made the point with which I think many honourable senators agree that the best security is the least obtrusive security. At the time I suggested that there was a degree of hysteria about the whole matter and that the flamboyance and very obvious nature of the security in force did not by any means bring about the best form of security. I also refer to the excessive population in Parliament House. I pay tribute to our former colleague,  Sir Reginald  Wright. He made the point very strongly on the Committee that in his view there were too many people in Parliament House and that that affected, amongst other things, the security of the building. That paragraph of the report concerns all members, particularly where it relates to the new and permanent Parliament House. 
The Committee emphasised that no steps which were suggested in the report and in the statements of the Presiding Officers were in any way a breach of the privileges of members of the Parliament. That is the important point which the Committee finally concluded and, in terms of the function of the Privileges Committee, that is its major finding and conclusion. A lot of evidence was given to the Committee in respect of terrorist activities which in my view, as a member of the Committee, was very much based on hearsay and on circumstantial evidence. In the light of that, the Committee's conclusions regarding this matter are fully justified. 
The Committee was chaired by former  Senator Drake-Brockman.  If I might say so, he worked the Committee hard in the last days of his membership of this Senate and the report, to that extent, is a tribute to him. I say finally that the whole issue illustrates that something which is given a very dramatic and cataclysmic colour by political rhetoric and so on, in the hands of a committee can be put in much better proportion than it might have been if it had been left in the hands, for example, of the present Government. To that extent the whole committee function has done a service to this Parliament and is to be commended. I commend the report to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
-Earlier this week I sought to present a petition to the Senate. On examination by the Clerk's office, I was informed that the petition was not in accordance with the Standing Orders. The petition relates to a radio station known as 3CR in Melbourne and expresses concern at alleged incitement to racial hatred and violence as a result of certain programs on that station. I seek leave to have the petition incorporated in  Hansard.  It contains more than 50 signatures. 
-No, but I will. 
-Yes. In relation to the subject matter of the petition I state that in my capacity last year as shadow Minister with responsibility for broadcasting matters I had discussions with some officers of 3CR in which I informed them that I regretted much of the material which was put on station 3CR, but I did affirm their right to say it. I should add that I find that the station in fact does a great disservice to the public broadcasting movement in this country by many of the programs which are put on that station. 
I do not normally listen to 3CR myself. The only occasion on which I have done so was to hear a program called, I think,  The Waterside Workers' Breakfast Show,  which was presided over by one Jack the Hat who was a natural cornmedian now, unhappily, deceased. It was an exemplary program in terms of the content of the public acclaim which it properly receives. I have not personally heard the material which is the subject matter of the petition. I understand, from people whose views I respect, that it is properly regarded as offensive material. It is regrettable, as I say, that that sort of material is broadcast on station 3CR. For those reasons I have sought leave to have the petition incorporated in  Hansard.  I subscribe to the general view which is expressed in the petition, although I do not personally subscribe to some of the solutions which are offered. 
I have indicated the number of signatures on the document. That will be recorded in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

To the  Hon.  the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectf  Fully showeth: 
This petition is most humbly prayed that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, assured that 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and Broadcasting Tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against  incitment  to racial hatred and violence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the high incidence of decompression sickness and chronic bone lesions causing serious disability or permanent incapacity among professional divers working in Australian Territorial waters. 
Is the Minister aware of the initiatives taken by the Professional Divers' Association of Australia to have this problem examined. 
Did an inter-departmental committee directed by the Department of Health make recommendations for the establishment of a Central Medical Registry on decompression sickness to alleviate this serious problem affecting professional divers; if so, what were these recommendations. 
Docs the Minister intend to take any action for the establishment of such a Central Medical Registry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
Did the Acting Minister for Defence state, on 13 January 1 977, that six Tracker aircraft had been selected, before the Nowra fire, for the Fleet Air Arm. 
Did the Minister state that these aircraft would bring the Fleet Air Arm up to a full operational strength of 14. 
Did the Defence Department state on 7 April 1977. that the Fleet Air Arm had received only five operational aircraft, which would not require major overhaul for about twelve months. 
Did the Department state that a further 1 1 of the 16 aircraft ordered from the United States of America would require major overhaul. 
5 ) When will the Fleet Air Arm be brought up to an operational strength of 14. 
) When will the five aircraft which were sent to the Fleet Air Arm be overhauled. 
What is the current estimated cost of the major overhaul referred to in the Minister's statement. 
How many of the Tracker ASW aircraft are presently at an operational standard. 
What will be the operational strength of the Tracker ASW squadrons when the remaining 1 1 aircraft referred to in the statement of 7 April 1 978 is completed. 
What is the current estimated cost of overhauling these 1 1 aircraft. 
How many of the 16 S2G Trackers will be retained for spare parts. 
How useful will these aircraft be in providing parts for the S2G aircraft which survived the fire. 
Does the Royal Australian Navy have any other sources of spare parts for all Tracker aircraft. 
How long is the Royal Australian Navy expected to retain: (a) the S2E; and (b) the S2G aircraft in service with the Royal Australian Navy. 
Are the effects on the level of public debate considered when the Minister or his Department issue statements relating to technical matters of defence significance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the current estimated total cost of purchasing the 16 Tracker aircraft from the United States, referred to in the Minister's statement of 1 April 1977, expressed in Australian dollars. 
What is the current and future estimated cost of overhauling all 1 6 S2G Tracker aircraft in Australia. 
Does the Minister still regard the purchase and subsequent overhaul as 'exceptionally good value'. 
What is the average age of the Tracker aircraft purchased from the United States of America. 
How many hours of life are left in: (a) the airframe; (b) the engines; and (c) the avionics of the S2G aircraft. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
What land, buildings and /or houses has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs purchased in the State of New South Wales in the years 1975, 1976 and 1977. 
Who were the original owners of any land, buildings or houses purchased by the Department in New South Wales during that period. 
3 ) What was the purchase price of each such property. 
Has the Department purchased land, buildings or houses in or near the town of Dubbo, New South Wales, during 1975, 1976 or 1977; if so, for what purposes were land, buildings or houses purchased by the Department in or near Dubbo. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition  or  the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60.000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question addressed to the Attorney-General follows a question asked by my colleague,  Senator Wriedt.  As at 24 April 1978, when the first terms of reference were drawn up and given to the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Electoral Redistribution of Queensland in 1977, was not all the information relating to  Senator Withers'  involvement in the subject matter of the inquiry within the knowledge of the Attorney-General? If not, what new facts came to the Attorney-General's knowledge between 24 April and 30 May which led him to change his mind about the terms of reference of the Royal Commission? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement. 
Leave granted. 
The Minister has provided us with an undated statement and I am uncertain as to the time at which the report was available. Certainly, it was not available to the Opposition until yesterday. 
And it is a cause of regret that the statement itself is undated. The Minister says in the final paragraph that the Government has not yet considered the report for 1979 but that its decisions on the recommendations will be announced as soon as possible during the Budget sittings. I merely make the point that the Opposition is in exactly the same difficulty as the Government- perhaps an even greater difficulty- because of the delay in providing this report. I think that the Minister states fairly in the third paragraph of his statement, the historical situation regarding the guidelines, and the fact that they foreshadow a public debate on questions related to schools funding. My interpretation of the earlier statement of the Schools  Commission  was that the public debate foreshadowed by it related to a relatively narrow aspect of school funding, but in the circumstances in which this document is now presented to the Senate, I hope that the Minister will accord us the opportunity at the earliest available time to debate the issues which are raised in the report. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I indicate briefly that the Opposition supports the establishment of this joint select committee to review the Family Law Act. The Opposition congratulates the Government on its initiative in this regard. However, I would like to make one or two comments. Those of us who  were associated with the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs at the time it dealt with the family law legislation when it was before the Senate will recall that many of the issues which now re-emerge in the terms of reference of the select committee were gone over fairly thoroughly by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. I think it is a matter of regret that because the family law legislation was not voted on along party lines in the Senate the Government did not see fit to consult with the Opposition regarding the terms of reference of this joint select committee which, as I said, canvasses much the same grounds as the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee canvassed in 1974 and 1975 and indeed members of this Senate canvassed in the debate that took place when the legislation was considered on totally non-party lines. Had we had that opportunity, as members of parliament as distinct from members of the Opposition or the Australian Labor Party, we might have been able to make some comments on the proposed terms of reference and- the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack  will indulge me in this fantasy- we may have been able to assist in suggesting some matters which should have been included in the terms of reference. 
One other unsatisfactory aspect of the proposed joint select committee concerns me as a senator and which I think should concern all senators. The Family Law Act as it was adopted in 1975 was basically dealt with in the Senate. It was initiated in the Senate. The Bill which finally became an Act was a result of the deliberations and debate of a committee of the Senate. Those of us who were here at that time will recall that, the debate in the Senate- I make no pejorative references to the House of Representatives- was carried on at a particularly high level. The results of the voting in the Senate were clear on a number of issues. By contrast, in the House of Representatives the debate was ill-informed, emotional in content and was not nearly as succinct in terms of its conclusions compared with the debate which took place here. In 1978 we find that the proposed committee will be predominantly composed of members of the House of Representatives as distinct from members of the Senate. It may be the reality of political life in Australia that all the decisions which are made here in the Senate may in fact be dictated in another place. We are familiar with that. The fact is that the wealth of information and thought about this subject exists in the Senate. Members of the House of Representatives will have a very large say in relation to the proposed terms of reference of the joint select committee. 
I want to make one other comment: That relates to the constitutional difficulties which have occurred since the Family Law Bill became law, particularly those which have occurred in relation to custody and maintenance matters. These matters were adverted to by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in his speech. Unfortunately, I cannot refer to it in detail because I do not have a copy. If I had a copy I would be able to draw attention to the specific matters to which the Attorney referred. They were problems in the administration of the Family Law Act relating to custody and maintenance. These were adverted to by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in 1975. They were at least pointed to by a minority of the Committee as being the areas which would cause difficulty.  Senator Durack,  as a member of that Committee, will recall and acknowledge that fact. Because of the constitutional hang-ups which loomed large in the minds of Government senators it was not possible for them to agree with that view at the time. I think the point is worth recalling. Many of the matters which will now be included in the terms of reference arise as a result of a failure to grapple with those issues in 1 975 either in constitutional terms or by means of seeking agreement between the States on the referral of certain powers to the Commonwealth Government. 
I agree with the Attorney-General that the functions of this committee of inquiry need not in any way derogate from the functions of the Family Law Council. If there had been a Committee stage I would have liked to hear from the Attorney-General how he thinks the Family Law Council is operating. It took a very long time to appoint it, and we have not heard much from it since. It seems that it would not be necessary for the select committee to impinge on the proper functions of the Family Law Council and vice versa. Having made those brief remarks and criticisms, which like the products of Carlton and United might be described as mild rather than bitter, I commend the motion to the Senate and indicate that it has the full support of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I rise to speak very briefly in support of this Bill and the amendments moved by my leader,'  Senator Wriedt.  I want to make some slightly different comments which do not relate directly to the specific purposes of the Bill. The express purpose of the legislation and of the particular provisions of the legislation, as stated in the Bills digest available to all honourable senators to assist them in making speeches is to prevent the establishment of spurious embassies in Australia and the making af false claims to diplomatic or consular status. It will therefore prevent interference with the work of accredited diplomatic or consular missions, which are protected by the Vienna Conventions of 1961 and 1963. 
The digest goes on in the specific provisions to deal with how those purposes might be carried out. It contains a number of references to the obtaining of injunctions in the Federal Court of Australia to restrain various activities and so on. Those specific provisions are of course applicable to the present situation which others of my colleagues have discussed. In introducing the legislation the former Minister for Administrative Services also had some words to say about its purpose which were couched in the following terms: that the Government could not view with indifference the destruction of a state and the establishment of an organisation which arrogates to itself an unacceptable title and status which in time could disrupt the orderly conduct of Australia's relations with another universally recognised member of the international community. Those are pretty stern words designed to deal with a specific situation. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the contrast between the wide purposes of this legislation as expressed and the somewhat more limited machinery for carrying out those purposes. Let me counsel the Government and the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Durack)  to exercise those provisions with restraint when having regard to the generality of the diplomatic representations in this country. Let me indulge for a moment in a touch of fantasy to illustrate the point which I seek to make. I do so by drawing the Senate's attention to the very colourful and important role that consular services have played in the literature, life and culture of countries such as ours. First of all let me illustrate that point in relation to the literature of our culture. 

 - Senator Durack interjects to say something about the reading of novels. He is feeling pretty good this week because he has actually started to read a novel. He told me that the novel he has chosen to read is E. M. Forster 's famous novel  A Passage to India,  which older senators will recall is a great work of literature which had a great influence on politicians such as Attorneys-General and others in the 1940s. I am glad to hear from  Senator Durack  that in 1978 he is going to read that book. 
-He says that he has nearly finished it. I hope it has a great deal of influence on him. The point I make is that a minor theme of  A Passage to India  is the whole issue of diplomatic and consular representations. The whole theme of Lawrence Durrell 's great books  The Alexandria Quartet,  which made a great contribution to English literature, turns on the question of the consular service. I say more specifically to  Senator Missen  that I was browsing in a book shop this morning and I noticed a number of books by perhaps the greatest living writer in the English language, Graham Greene. Honourable senators who are familiar with the works of Graham Greene, as  Senator Davidson  clearly is, will realise that nearly all those great works of contemporary literature depend upon fantasy and imagination in relation to the consular service. If the purposes of this Bill were exercised in the way that is prescribed, it would take a very colourful slice out of the life of contemporary Australia and indeed of the literature of the present and the future. 

 - Senator Missen should look for a moment at some of the great Graham Greene novels which depend on this theme and, of course,  The Power and the Glory  is not one of them. Honourable senators will recall that  The Power and the Glory  depends very much on a theme of alcoholism, which probably brings it to  Senator Missen  's mind at this moment and leads him to interject. The theme of most of the novels of Graham Greene is the consular service, and I refer honourable senators to novels such as  The Quiet American, Our Man in Havana,  Stanbul  Train, The Honorary Consul  and more recently,  The Human Connection.  All these are important books which I think draw attention to a great richness and fantasy surrounding the life of the consular and diplomatic service which could be erased if this Bill were taken to its extreme. 
In Australia we have perhaps a less imaginative cultural life but even here it is true that there have been some very interesting incidents in the history of this country which involved the consular service. For example, there have been the efforts of Prince Leonard of Hutt to establish consular services in various capital cities of this country. This action, whatever one might think about it, has given a little life to the situation and a degree of amusement. More particularly, honourable senators will recall the fact that  Mr Peter  Clyne, a former barrister, was once consul for the Maldive Islands in Sydney. Honourable senators on the opposite side will recall his two very well known books which, I understand, are compulsory reading in Government circles at the moment. One is called  How Not to Pay any Tax  and the other is called  How to go Bankrupt Gracefully.  It was in the course of his consular service that  Mr Peter  Clyne first began writing those books. He was also able, as a result of being a consul, to obtain diplomatic immunities and give a large number of parties in Sydney which were, at least before this Budget, based on the fact that, as a consular representative, he could obtain cheap alcohol. 
There are other instances of the same sort of thing. In 1976 a gentleman in Sydney was appointed Honorary Vice Consul for Mauretania. For those honourable senators whose geography is as bad as mine and whose research is worse, Mauretania is a small west African country bordering on Morocco, its main export being dates. The capital of Mauretania is a place called Nouakchott. The consular representative for Mauretania in 1976 decided on behalf of his Government to award a number of knighthoods to distinguished Australian figures. I remind honourable senators, because I think this would appeal to Government senators, that a number of knighthoods of importance were awarded, and if he were still the consular representative for Mauretania some honourable senators on the other side might receive awards. The awards were made to  Sir Norman  Gunston, who was awarded a knighthood for services to culture; to  Sir John  Kerr, for services to Australian republicanism; to  Sir Rupert  Murdoch for services to imaginative journalism; and to Lady Sonia McMahon for services to  Sir William  McMahon. Each of those knighthoods was awarded in 1976. The recipients had to pay $5 to the consul who awarded them and those $5 sums were paid to a worthy charity in Sydney. The importance of that, of course, is that the system of awarding imperial knighthoods in Australia has never been quite so specific. It has never been as specific as the sorts of specifications which I have just read out and which resulted in those awards by the Consular of Mauretania in 1976. Imperial knighthoods traditionally have been awarded for such euphemistic reasons as services to charity, services to business, services to the Liberal Party and things of that nature. But they have never been awarded for purposes quite as specific as those which I mentioned. I shall illustrate in cultural terms the point which I was seeking to make. The existence of consular representatives like the Consul for Mauretania provides a very significant and important way for Australia in 1976 and beyond to award knighthoods on a proper basis in a multicultural society, because the system of awarding knighthoods of the imperial kind was restricted in its nature. 
There are a number of points of a similar kind which could be made, as I say, about the cultural, political and literary significance which attaches to the consular service. In speaking to this legislation I said that I concur with the observations of  Senator Wriedt  and with the amendment which he moved. I point out that in terms of its expressed purposes this legislation looks very much as though it is wider than the Government actually intended. We hope that its application will be confined to the particularly difficult sorts of situations which have been the subject of specific comments by members of the Senate. Having said that, I commend the legislation and the amendment to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) What was the total number of sitting days of the Senate and the House of Representatives in each year from 1970-78 inclusive. 
What was the total number of pieces of legislation introduced by successive Governments in each House in each year from 1 970-78 inclusive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
What nursing homes approved under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1974 and the National Health Act 1953 are situated in each of the electoral divisions of Casey, Diamond Valley and Deakin. 
What are the names and addresses of the registered owners of each home. 
What is the address of each home. 
What are the weekly charges in each home. 
How many beds are in each home. 
What permanent and part-time staff are employed in each home. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1) On what dates since 31 December 1975 have annual reports of registered private health funds been filed with the Minister's Department as required under sections 74, 75 and 76 of the National Health Act 1953. 
What funds have failed to file their annual reports by the required date. 
3 ) What steps is the Minister taking to ensure that private health funds fulfil their legal obligations under the sections of the Act in (1). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
What in relation to the United States World-wide Military Command and Control Systems and its Defence Communications (DCS) is (a) the Satcom program; (b) the Seafarer program; (c) the Harpoon technique; and (d) the Tomahawk technique. 
Is Australia involved in any of these programs and/or techniques; if so, what is the nature of that involvement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Is the United States Airforce Satellite Communications (AFSATCOM) program and/or the Defence Satellite Communication System (DSCS) part of the overall Defence Communications System currently operating or to be operational in the future, at the North West Cape Naval Communications Base. 
I  direct a question to the Attorney-General.  I  refer to a question which  I  asked him last week as to what new facts came to his knowledge between the drafting of the first terms of reference of the McGregor Royal Commission on 24 April and the extension of those terms of reference on 30 May.  I  remind the Minister that he replied that he was not aware of any further information: 
Apart from the fact that  Senator Withers  and  Mr Pearson  had given evidence and that  Senator Withers  had answered a question in this place . . . 
I  ask the Minister: Does it not follow from this that the only change in circumstances was that  Senator Withers'  involvement previously known only to the Government and the Australian Electoral Office, had become public knowledge? 
-Would the AttorneyGeneral cast his mind back to the meeting of senior Ministers which took place in Sydney on 7 August this year at which the decision regarding  Senator Withers'  position in the Cabinet was made? At that meeting did the Prime Minister state why he wanted written confirmation in the form of a note from  Mr Robinson  of something  Mr Robinson  is alleged to have told the meeting concerning his recollection of what was said at the meeting of Ministers on 17 January 1978? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Attorney-General, follows an answer given by him to  Senator Wriedt  a minute or two ago in which he said that Cabinet discussions were privileged unless it was a decision of the Government to disclose the nature of those discussions. Was there a decision of the Government to disclose the matters which the Prime Minister disclosed in a public statement yesterday? 
-by leave-I read the statement which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  tabled. I have the gravest difficulty in - 
-I am sure that nothing I may say would engender a debate. I have read the statement which has been made by the 
Attorney-General in relation to this matter. Frankly, I hope that my seeking information from the Minister will prompt him to tell the Senate at some stage the purpose of the statement. I would have thought that when dealing with such an important subject matter as this, the Minister might have indicated to the Senate the future intentions of the Government in relation to these sorts of papers, the purpose of tabling this paper at this time and why the - 
That is the answer to one question, for which I am grateful. Perhaps the Minister, when he speaks later, can answer the other question dealing with the intentions of the Government in relation to future matters of this kind. I ask that question particularly because in connection with this matter I had occasion to look at a quite important statement on electoral matters made by  Senator Withers  in his former capacity as Minister for Administrative Services on 4 November last year. It is a statement which I suppose has become memorable, indeed historical, because in discussing the redistribution proposals the then Minister touched on the role of a Minister in relation to redistribution matters.  Senator Withers  commented: 
I do not know why honourable senators opposite should Tear me if I were able to write the rules. I assure them that if I did write them they would be fair and just- fair to us and just awful to them. 
In reply to an interjection regarding the Queensland redistribution and name changes, he went on to say: 
The name of Gold Coast was changed to Fadden. I think that is more in keeping- 

 Senator Douglas McClelland interjected: 
Gold Coast became McPherson. 

 Senator Withers replied: 
Yes. There was a great deal of playing around. 
That was a memorable understatement in relation to what has taken place in 1978. In the light of that statement by the then Minister and the statement which  Senator Durack  has just brought down, I particularly want to advert to the findings of the Royal Commission in relation to these analyses. I think it is important because, by way of probing earlier, I asked the Minister what were the intentions of the Government for the future regarding these documents. Some very important material is contained in the report of  Mr Justice  McGregor in relation to this precise question. On page 175 a discussion of this document, the so-called political analysis, is recorded by the Royal Commissioner. He refers to the evidence of one of the Queensland Distribution Commissioners,  Mr Seymour. His  Honour stated: 

 Mr Seymour was shown it.  His  reaction was to feel 'uncomfortable with this piece of information '. He said there was 'limited discussion ' about it and  . . I thought it was introducing into the discussions, into our deliberations, matters which lay outside the terms of the Act, and I, for that matter, did not wish to study it or become familiar with it in any way, and I indicated that at the time '. 
His Honour then commented: 
This view taken by the witness then seems to me to be a correct assessment. 
The view was supported specifically by  Senator Withers,  as the Minister responsible, in his evidence to the Royal Commission. With the greatest respect to the present Minister- I know he is new in this role- honourable senators on this side certainly have regard for the former Minister's views about these matters. The Royal Commissioner stated: 

 Senator the Right Honourable R. G. Withers expressed himself unequivocally thus- 
Do you agree that Distribution Commissioners should not pay regard to what may be the consequences of the distribution provisions on voting for a particular party or a particular candidate? 

 Senator Withers answered: 
Oh I think it is none of their business. 
I raise these matters because today the very documents to which the Royal Commission was referring are brought down in the Senate. I raise the matter not in any partisan context at all but to draw attention to the views of the former Minister and a Queensland Distribution Commissioner given in evidence, quite clearly expressed and quite consistent, presumably without the Minister or the Distribution Commissioner knowing what the other person's view was. A quite consistent view was shared by the two of them about this type of political analysis. 
The statement which has been made today seems to be designed only to pot some Labor Party senator for saying on 1 5 August this year that  Senator Withers  knew all about this situation, to deny that and, as it were, to table the documents in the Senate without any statement by way of explanation or any understanding being given to the Senate as to what is the intention in the future. I know, and the Minister undoubtedly will tell us, that this practice has been going on for a long time. All I am putting to him is that nobody seems to understand the rules about the way in which it ought to work. Certainly on this side of the chamber we do not understand. Certainly the Queensland Distribution Commissioner giving evidence did not understand the way in which it is supposed to work. In effect,  Senator Withers  was saying that it should not work at all on the minds of the Distribution Commissioners. As I have said, I am not making a partisan comment. All I am saying is that there has probably been a fair degree of sloppiness in the way these matters have been handled in the past. One would hope for a statement from the Government laying down pretty clear guidelines about the way it is intended that this should happen in the future. 

 Senator DURACK (Western AustraliaAttorneyGeneral) by leave- This has assumed the proportions of a mini-debate. 

 Senator Button and  Senator Gietzelt  have raised important matters. The Government has not yet had an opportunity to consider fully what  Mr Justice  McGregor said in his report about this matter. Other aspects of his report have been given more immediate attention. I can assure the Senate that I have a personal concern in relation to the distribution of these documents to the electoral officers at the time a  distribution  takes place. It is clear that they have been prepared for Ministers over a long period of time, and probably the question that should be asked is what is the proper thing to do with them, rather than an attack being made on their preparation. I am alert to the concern that has been expressed. For my part, I intend to give it serious consideration and I will be making a recommendation to the Government in relation to it. I expect there will be some response in due course from the Government to what  Mr Justice  McGregor has said and some of the concerns that have been expressed will be met. 
-I move: 
That the Freedom of Information Bill 1 978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
I am indebted to  Senator Carrick,  Leader of the Government in the Senate, for making the time available both to  Senator Mason  and me. The Freedom of Information Bill was introduced into the Senate on the last day of the parliamentary sessional period ending in June. I want to state very briefly my reasons for moving this motion. This history of the freedom of information legislation has straddled a period of at least two governments and, in a sense, possibly three governments. The growing power of executive government and the limitations on the right of the citizen to obtain information from the government departments in an increasingly complex state has been a source of continuing concern to a small, but interested and important section of the community. The Senate will be aware that the report on this matter from an interdepartmental committee was tabled in the Parliament on 9 December 1976 and that  Mr Ellicott,  the then Attorney-General, told the Parliament the appropriate legislation would be pre-  pared. The Government's commitment to this legislation was confirmed by the GovernorGeneral in his speech to Parliament following the 1977 election. Of course, the legislation had been referred to also during the Labor Government's term of office and at the time of the 1975 election. 
The interdepartmental committee which looked into this matter was told to use the United States Freedom of Information Act as the basis for its proposals. As the Senate will recall a Bill was prepared by  Mr Paul  Munro, a commissioner of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration in the terms of a minority report of that Royal Commission. I briefly recapitulate the arguments in favour of freedom of information legislation. It is simply that the complexity of modern government has rendered the system of ministerial accountability less effective than it might be. It no longer serves the need of a modern democracy based on the Westminster system. The party system as it presently operates is regarded by many people as a barrier to effective ministerial accountability because it results in what is seen to be political responsibility rather than administrative accountability. In countries such as the United States the provision of freedom of information legislation has been seen as a solution to some of these problems. 
I think you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  will recall that when this matter was first discussed by Government senators in this chamber some 18 months ago- with a degree of excitement- I described the legislation on freedom of information to be introduced by this Government as being an anatomical freak, that is, it was a gelding before it was born. In my view there was no hope of this Government introducing legislation for freedom of information which would have any significant teeth and which would go anywhere near as far as did the legislation in that unusual and, in a way, great democracy, the United States, where legislation of this kind was first brought into existence after the Scandinavian countries. Why should this matter now, in 1 978, be referred to the Senate Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs? In part it should be referred to the Committee for the reasons I expressed in 1 976 in the Senate. It should be referred to the Senate Committee more particularly because only by adopting that course is there any hope of the legislation being changed into any fo'rm which will satisfy the aspirations of many Government supporters. It is not a matter about which we on this side of the Senate want to reiterate our own views. 
We have a firm view that the legislation is inadequate and for that reason should be referred to the Committee. Many Government senators share the same view. This is a unique opportunity for Government senators to exercise that function which they often refer to, that is, the function of the Senate as a House of review. Perhaps for those honourable senators who come from States which have already introduced freedom of information legislation this is a unique opportunity for them to represent the views of their States in this chamber and adopt the sort of position which their State governments have adopted. More particularly it is a great opportunity for the Senate to show that it is a House of review in relation to these matters and that it considers this legislation, which has come from the House of Representatives, as inadequate. For that reason this Bill should be referred to an important Senate committee. 
I said that I was more concerned about the views of Government supporters than I was of my own. I refer the Senate to some of the views of Government supporters which have been publicly expressed on this matter. I refer firstly to the honourable member for Denison,  Mr Hodgman,  the  Chairman  of the Government Law and Government Committee. I know that Committee has been pursuing legislation of this kind for a long period. On 12 June this year he said that there were strong and compelling reasons for the referral of the Freedom of Information Bill to a Senate committee. Specifically, he stated: 
While I am not prepared to condemn the legislation as inadequate, I have expressed regret that a number of proposed amendments from the backbench have not been accepted up to the present time by the Government. 
That is an extraordinary statement. He was not prepared to condemn the legislation as inadequate even though his views, as  Chairman  of the Committee, had not been acceded to.  Mr Hodgman  pointed out that Cabinet had rejected a list of 27 recommendations from his Committee in relation to this Bill. If one compares the present Bill with the draft Bill which was prepared in 1977 one sees that very few amendments of any significance have been made as a result of the initiatives of the Government backbench committee. So much for  Mr Hodgman  and his Committee which apparently argued strongly for an appeal to be available against a decision by a Minister who could, for example, deny access to information. I refer now to  Senator Missen  who has been diligent in the pursuit of freedom of information legislation in Australia.  His  degree of diligence has taken him to the United States of America to study the freedom of information legislation there. He made the following points about the present legislation: 
It doesn't relate to past or existing documents that were created before the Act operates. There is a small exception however . . . 
He pointed out that the consequence of this is:   . . a mountain of government material now in existence won 't be subject to compulsory disclosure. 
He also made the point: 
The time limits are elastic and there are provisions for extension of those periods beyond 60 days. 
He described the provision for appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal as:   . . not comprehensive and, under many of the exemptions, conclusive certificates can be given by Ministers. In these cases the tribunal will have no power to investigate the validity of the claim, nor will it have power to examine the excuse of 'public interest' which will often be a justification for refusing to disclose. 
He made the further point: 
There is no provision for payment of costs to applicants, where there is wrongful refusal to disclose. This will act as a deterrent against applications being pressed. 

 Senator Missen has made six or seven other points of a similar kind in articles in the Melbourne  Age  and elsewhere which go right to the heart of the notion of freedom of information legislation. In the Melbourne  Age  article  Senator Missen  departed from my anatomical analogy and used a horticultural analogy. He said: 
It might be said that you have what appears to be a shining apple, but when most of the fruit has been eaten away there is not much benefit. 
That is an interesting- one might say extraordinary- analogy. It is one which is clearly and graphically in the mind of apple-eating  Senator Missen  and one which, in a sense, sums up his attitude to this legislation. In addition to  Senator Missen,  the Liberal member for Casey in Victoria,  Mr Peter  Falconer, has stated publicly: 
An overriding criticism of the Bill is that it is the product of officialdom- by the very official from whom the public seeks greater information. 
I referred earlier to the report of the interdepartmental committee and, of course, on a totally non-partisan basis, to the fact that in the time of the Australian Labor Party Government this legislation was in the hands of an interdepartmental committee. Whatever the political implication, the fact is that  Mr Falconer's  criticism is right. It is a valid criticism of the Bill and one which justifies referring this legislation to the Senate Committee on Constitutional and Legal 
Affairs, which at least is composed of elected members of Parliament and not of officials who presumably would be concerned about the consequences of any freedom of information legislation. In relation to the Bill  Mr Falconer  went on to say: 
It can be regarded as a helpful start as a draft Bill, but not yet appropriate for passage through Parliament. 
I refer to that statement because that is the nub of what we are saying in seeking to have this matter referred to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. The Bill is not appropriate for passage through Parliament at this time. Having said that, I urge the Senate, as I did earlier, to act in the capacity which is sometimes claimed by it, that is, as a House of review, and to refer this matter to the appropriate committee where it can receive the attention which, in the views of members on both sides of both Houses, it clearly deserves. 
I commend the motion to the Senate. 
In conclusion, I should like to indicate that I have to leave now and I will not have the opportunity of hearing  Senator Mason  speak to the next notice of motion. I congratulate him on his maiden speech, even though I have not heard it. The subject matter of his notice of motion is of considerable interest to me and to all members on this side of the House. I am sure he will treat it in a most interesting and important way. I wish him well. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer him to his response on 16 August to a question from  Senator Georges  concerning the February investigation of the Queensland redistribution by the AttorneyGeneral and the Solicitor-General in which he said: 
The position was that  Mr Cameron  had made allegations of various kinds and that  Mr Byers  and I were simply asked to look at them, to discuss them with  Mr Cameron  and to ascertain whether he had any material . . . which  . . would justify any type of formal investigation,  . . The whole object of the exercise was simply for us to see, really, (a) what  Mr Cameron  was alleging specifically and (b) whether he had anything to produce. 
I ask the Minister whether he can point to anything in his advice dated 9 February which would indicate that the advice was limited to allegations made by  Mr Cameron. 
I refer to my question addressed to  Senator Durack  three minutes ago. I trust that at this stage he recalls the question and the answer that he gave. In regard to the advice which he gave on 9 February, which he recalled so vividly a week ago but does not recall today, may I refresh his memory and ask him: Did the advice refer to statements of  Mr Kevin  Cairns,  Senator Georges  and  Senator Withers,  as well as statements made by  Mr Cameron?  Did that advice conclude that those persons who had made allegations had made them in good faith but they were unfounded? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. In connection with matters which I think he will recall that we have been discussing, I ask: As at 23 April this year was it his understanding that  Senator Withers'  action in telephoning  Mr Pearson  about the naming of the seat of McPherson was done on behalf of  Mr Eric  Robinson? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
The statement I am about to make might be very brief unless my notes arrive from my office very soon. I wanted to speak particularly about the agreement for the supply of uranium to the Philippines. The gist of" the matter with which I have been concerned for a long period and about which we must think very seriously is the supplying of uranium to countries with totalitarian governments. In February of this year I asked a question of  Senator Withers,  who was then the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Senate. My question related to reports in Australian newspapers and in particular reports of United States Congressional hearings regarding the development of the nuclear power industry in the Philippines. On 23 February this year the  Australian Financial Review  simply reported that the nuclear power plant in the Philippines was being built close to an active volcano, close to a potential hot mud flow, possibly near a fault line and close to the Subic Bay naval base where more than 5000 American families live. I raised that question with the then Minister in the light of a statement made by  Mr Anthony,  the Minister for Trade and Resources, on 17 November last year in which he said that he believed Australia should supply uranium to the Philippines and that the Philippines wanted 3000 tonnes from Australia. A number of points of order were taken in the course of my asking that question. I recall  Senator Withers  accusing me of giving information in my question. Sometimes I accused him of not giving information in his answers. The point was that  Senator Withers  explained that he was not an avid reader of the  A Australian Financial Review,  which surprised all of us. He then said that he had no direct information on the matter concerning the building of a nuclear reactor in the Philippines. He went on to say: 
The Government's views on the countries to which it is prepared to sell uranium are quite well known. Such sales are subject to the Commonwealth Government being satisfied that the proper, adequate and stringent safeguards that Australia will require will be enforced in the country to which we sell. 
The Minister went on to say that I had raised matters of which he had no direct knowledge but that he would seek information from the Minister for Trade and Resources and let me have a reply to my question at the earliest possible time. That was in February. I do not blame  Senator Withers  in any sense for the fact that the information was not subsequently forthcoming. It was as much my obligation as it was his to pursue the matter, and I did not. However, the point is that I drew this matter to the attention of the Senate and the Government in February of this year. 
While I was in the United States of America in July this year I took the trouble to find out what the United States Congressional Committee which was looking into the development of nuclear reactors in various countries had determined. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in the course of my statement I shall say nothing at length about the agreement for the sale of uranium to Finland, for very obvious reasons. Finland has a high level of environmental understanding and a high level of technology. In terms of the government to which Australia aspires, it has a government which is very democratic, very conscious of human rights and so on. I regret to say that I cannot make the same sort of comment about the Government of the Philippines, nor could I make the same sort of comment about the Government of Iran which is also a country shopping in the market for Australian uranium. 
There has been a great deal of concern by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and by the Foreign Operations Sub-Committee of the House Appropriations Committee relating to the development of the nuclear reactor in the Philippines which Australia is now to supply with uranium. Honourable senators will remember the glossy white folder we received last year called 'Australian uranium policy', or something like that, which was distributed to members of parliament, school children and Godknowswho else in Australia to explain to them that the Government was very concerned about the development of uranium mining and the sale of uranium to overseas countries and that it would insist on the highest possible standards. The fact of the matter is that the agreement has just been tabled and the Opposition has not had the opportunity of seeing it. Although one assumes that the agreements with Finland and the Philippines are the same, there are very important distinctions which have to be made between the sale of uranium to these two countries. 
Let me inform the Senate briefly of some of these distinctions. I do not want to go back to the sort of suggestions that were made by  Mr Justice  Fox. However, I am sure honourable senators will recall vividly the pious statements that were made about our intentions as to where uranium was to be sold. Let me just go back to some of the concerns which have been expressed by the United States congressional committee in relation to the development of the nuclear reactor in the Philippines. First of all, in September 1972 at the instigation of the United States the International Atomic Energy Agency visited the Philippines Atomic Research Centre to make a health and safety inspection. The Agency reported that conditions at the Centre were potentially hazardous. Since then there have been other visits by international agencies to the Philippines, particularly in relation to the building of a reactor in that country. It was reported later in 1972 that the research reactor was operating on only one half normal power due to the failure of one of the compensating chambers in the reactor control system. Upon further inquiry it developed that the failure occurred in April 1971 and that the operation had been carried on at half power since then because there was no one there to fix it. This was the situation, of course, several years ago. 
A further piece of information which was advanced by the United States congressional committee and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was the point that industrial, military and transportation facilities' are nearby the reactor and that a special study of the situation ought to be conducted. Given the large military installation and oil and ammunition storage facilities at Subic Bay concern was expressed that a special study was not conducted prior to the siting of the reactor. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission also noted that the same sort of situation pertained in the State of Maryland in the United States where it was proposed to establish a reactor at Perryman near a weapons proving ground. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission prevented work from proceeding on that nuclear power station in the United States because of the presence of the proving ground. But an entirely different standard was applied in the Philippines. 
In 1976 the Filipino Energy Development Board- and this was also reported to the United States congressional committee- found nuclear power to be much more expensive than coal, geothermal or hydro power in the Philippines. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission was concerned about the justification for the erection of a nuclear power plant in the Philippines in view of the findings of this body of the Philippines Government as to the costs of nuclear power in the Philippines. 
The other points I wish to raise were also raised, as I have said, by the United States congressional committee and they, of course, basically involve the question of the siting of a nuclear power station so close to a volcanic fault line. I simply want to make the point that there is a volcano not far distant from the site of the nuclear power station. That volcano has not been active for some time but it was said by experts who gave evidence to the congressional committee in the United States that there is a very real problem in terms of the volcanic fault line near Subic Bay. 
-I am sorry but I did not hear what the honourable senator said. 
-I do not know anything about the North Pacific plate. I am talking about evidence that was given to the United States Congressional Committee on the siting of the nuclear power station near Subic Bay. 
I cannot hear the honourable senator very well. However, I am making the point that we would all be able to hear the result if there was a volcanic fault near the nuclear power station in question. A question was asked at the United States congressional committee hearing about safety because of the proximity of two volcanoes to the plant site. In its review of the preliminary site report the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pointed out: 
Although some discussion of the volcanic hazards has been presented . . . the subject has not been thoroughly addressed. 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission concluded that Mount Natib would under NRC practice be considered active. The Commission went on to say: 
Faulting would appear to be difficult to detect in the geological terrain within the site vicinity. Considering the paucity of exposures within S kilometres of the site it is difficult to envision what types of field investigation were conducted. 
Certainly field investigations should have been conducted. Other questions to be asked included whether the adequacy of local construction was investigated and whether such a new and relatively inexperienced company was capable of handling a massive nuclear project. In September 1976 the Philippines Atomic Energy Commission asked the United States Embassy to determine whether the NRC would be willing to undertake a technical review of the preliminary report since it did not have the technical expertise nor the breadth of experience in the Philippines. Yet in May 1977 an official of the NRC expressed his concern that 'we are being asked to provide two man-weeks worth of safety review for a foreign reactor when our average effort to review a licence application in the United States is in excess of six man years'. The point I want to make is that the sort of standards set by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission are not being applied in the Philippines. These standards in the Philippines are totally inadequate. 
The siting of the proposed nuclear power plant is very doubtful in terms of what I have said, based on evidence given to the congressional committee. It is a matter of substantial concern to the committee of the United States Congress but, in the light of the agreement which has been tabled today, I doubt whether the same concern has been shown by the Australian Government. I doubt whether that level of concern has been shown also because it was quite clear as early as November last year that  Mr Anthony  intended to proceed with the sale of uranium to the Philippines. It can be said that it is none of our business what they do in the Philippines but the point is that this Government again and again has said that we will sell our uranium only if we are totally satisfied with the standards that will apply in the recipient countries. Can we be satisfied about the standards which will apply in the Philippines? Can we be satisfied about the standards which will apply in Iran? It may be that the answer is no, that we cannot be satisfied but we still intend to sell uranium. If that is the answer, I would like to hear it said; otherwise it is ridiculous carrying on with debate on the so-called guidelines for uranium exports which suggest that we are bestowing some form of beneficience upon the rest of the world by providing it not only with our uranium but also with our extremely high public standards as a bonus to the export of uranium. 
I also raise in this context the question of human rights in the Philippines. This may not seem very relevant to this debate but it is by way of contrast to the sale of uranium to a country such as Finland. Again my information comes from evidence before the United States Congressional committee. A document provided by Congressman Long, the  Chairman  of that committee, states: 
According to a Prof, in the Philippines ' Under martial law, the people live in fear. Despite their great apprehension and opposition, many people cannot openly talk against the nuclear plant for fear of harassment- military or other wise '. 
In July 1 976 a planned information dissemination meeting was blocked by local authorities by not issuing a permit for a large gathering. 
It sounds a bit like Queensland. The document continues: 
The group could only resort to a whispering campaign. The permit was denied because the local police said they could not give permission since the topic concerned a government project. 
In one information drive by the National Power Corporation a Philippine Constabulary officer got angry and shouted at a Protestant Minister who asked questions during the open forum and who mentioned some near accidents in nuclear plants in the US. The officer threatened to have the minister arrested. Due to this incident, the minister was forced to transfer his family to the capital of Bataan, and to accept another assignment. 
Unbiased information about the pros and cons of the nuclear project is simply unavailable to the local population, only propaganda. 
The important point about that is that there is clearly no availability of public discussion on the siting of the nuclear reactor in the Philippines to which I have referred. The only public discussion which has taken place in any open forum was in the United States Congress which predominantly is concerned not only about the contractual arrangements between the United States and the Philippines to provide hardware for the nuclear reactor but also about United States military personnel at the naval base in Subic Bay. I look forward to reading the agreements between the Australian Government and the Philippines. I hope that everything I have said is wrong and that the agreements indicate that the Government has taken cognisance of the various points which have been of great concern to the United States Congress and clearly, in a more limited way, to the people of the Philippines. Only if the agreements have taken cognisance of those points can the much vaunted and lauded policy of the Government which we were given last year of ensuring that Australia's uranium would be sold only to countries where adequate and proper safeguards were provided, be put beyond the concern of members of this Parliament, and the policy upon which the Government has embarked in fact be seen to be living up to the rhetoric which accompanied its announcement last year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The notice of motion standing in the name of  Senator Walsh  was given on 2 1 February 1 978 and, on behalf of  Senator Walsh,  I move: 
That the Senate condemns the Government's failure to promote the development of the public broadcasting sector in Australia. 
Notice of that motion was given on 2 1 February 1 978. Perhaps it had a salutary effect because on 5 April 1 978, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in the House of Representatives,  Mr Staley,  brought down a fairly comprehensive statement relating to public broadcasting. The Opposition commended the Minister on the fairly comprehensive nature of that statement. In those circumstances, the motion now before the Senate is perhaps a little redundant. However, it is probably worth while reiterating one or two facts regarding this matter and pointing to a situation of delay which is now again apparent in the public broadcasting area. 
The public reports relating to public broadcasting in Australia go back to 1972. Public broadcasting has well been established in countries like the United States of America since the late 1950s but it was not until 1972 that the first public report on public broadcasting- the report on FM radio- was made by the old Australian Broadcasting Control Board and accepted in principle by the McMahon Government. Then the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts took up the matter. Members of the present Government served on that Committee. In 1974, the Whitlam Government commissioned  Sir Francis  McLean to come to Australia to provide an independent report on FM broadcasting in this country. This had the result, in a sense, of reversing the policy of previous governments in relation to the FM portion of the spectrum. In 1975, the results of a working party on public broadcasting in Australia established by the Government were published. The committees which presented all those reports, except the 1972 one, were set up or commissioned by the Labor Government. But at no stage did the then Opposition, the present Government, reject the recommendations of these reports. 
In 1976, the Green report on Australian broadcasting which was sought by this Government stated that the Australian Broadcasting system should consist of three sectors- a national sector, namely the Australian Broadcasting Commission, a commercial sector and the public broadcasting sector. It stated that all three sectors should have access to FM broadcasting. The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which was set up by this Government after it abolished the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in a fit of pique endorsed the idea of public broadcasting in its report presented in July 1977. That report, which dealt with self-regulation for broadcasters, made the very specific comment that there should be further diversity of public broadcasting in Australia. Between July 1977 and 5 April 1978, the Government sat on these reports. It was only with the statement of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on 5 April 1978 that some comprehensive sort of statement was made and some indication gained of the policy of the Government on this important question of public broadcasting. 
The only other comment I wish to make is that I think this Government can probably be accused of delays and prevarication in relation to public broadcasting up until 5 April 1978. With the statement by the Minister on that date, a great deal of hope was engendered into many people in the community interested in and concerned about public broadcasting. In fact, when applications were called for medium power licences in major cities, as I recall it, there were eight applications in Brisbane for three licences, a number of applications in Perth for a limited number of licences, eight applications in Melbourne, and a similar degree of enthusiasm was shown in all the other major cities. The problem has been that, as a result of the staffing policies of the present Government, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has been unable to deal with public broadcasting licence applications as expeditiously as might have been thought desirable. For example, if one looks at the Adelaide  Advertiser of  Monday, 21 August 1978, one finds a member of the Broadcasting Tribunal- the South Australian representative,  Mr Merrickdescribing  the manner in which the Tribunal had to deal with the renewal of television broadcasting licences as totally inadequate. The point was made in the context of that article about the very insufficient staff of the Tribunal. Indeed, I believe that the statement has been made and reiterated by the  Chairman  of the Tribunal, amongst others, in subsequent hearings in Brisbane and elsewhere. So whilst the Government has acted following the presentation of the Notice of Motion given on this matter, there have still been considerable delays. It is for that reason tonight that I speak to the motion standing in the name of  Senator Walsh.  I commend the motion to the Senate and I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
Has the Government conducted an evaluation of the Adult Migrant Education Program; if so: 
what are the results of the evaluation; and 
were ethnic communities consulted in relation to it; if so, which communities. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to his ministerial statement on education guidelines of 9 June in which he said that after further consideration of Budget priorities the Government might find it possible to review the capital allocation for tertiary education for 1 979. Is the Minister aware of the uncertainty that that statement has introduced into the area of tertiary education planning? Has the review to which the Minister referred now been made? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) What is the total number of personal and ministerial staff attached to each of the following Ministers in the Fraser Government: (a) Minister for Trade and Resources; (b) Treasurer; (c) Minister for Education; (d) Minister for Health; (e) Minister for Primary Industry;  (0  Minister for Immigration; (g) Minister for Home Affairs; and (h) Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
What were the names, designations and positions of members of the personal and ministerial staffs of the Ministers listed above on 1 June 1978. 
Where were those staff members based, who were not based in Canberra at 1 June 1 978, in respect of each Minister listed above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How much time has elapsed since the Minister asked the Australian Medical Association to conduct an inquiry into the introduction of a peer review system to medical and hospital practice in Australia designed partly to contain doctor-initiated health costs. 
On how many occasions has the Minister, or officers of his Department, met the AMA since the inquiry began, to discuss progress of the inquiry. 
What were the results of those discussions. 
Did the Minister indicate that the Government itself would introduce a mandatory peer review scheme if the AMA did not initiate a voluntary one of its own design. 
When does the Minister now anticipate that the AMA will present its peer review proposals to the Government. 
Will the Minister expedite the introduction of this scheme in the event of the failure of the AMA to respond quickly and effectively to the Minister's request. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) What has been the total cost of the Adult Secondary Allowance Scheme in each financial year since its inception. 
How many students have received, and have been receiving, benefits under the Scheme in each year since its inception. 
When does the Government propose introducing legislation to govern the operation of the Scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
1 ) What has been the total cost of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS) in each financial year since its inception. 
) How many students have received, and are receiving, benefits under the Scheme in each year since its inception. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What reviews, if any, is the Commonwealth Electoral Office currently undertaking in relation to the revision of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918. 
Is any review taking place which will particularly give attention to the provisions of sections 145- 15 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act; if not, when is it anticipated that such a review or reviews will take place. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1 978: 
1) Are single students who claim the full independent allowance under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS) because of 'difficult conditions at home ' required to provide a detailed floor plan of the family home; if so, why. 
2 ) What other information must students in this situation provide in order to receive the full independent allowance under TEAS. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) What position is held by the new full-time employee at The Lodge, for whom $6,700 has been allocated in the Estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
What are his or her duties at The Lodge. 
What, if any, staff ceilings at present applied to Government Departments were waived to accommodate this new appointment. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What action has the Department of Administrative Services, or the Government as a whole, taken to: (a) ensure that Australian Aboriginals are made aware of their rights and obligation to vote at elections; and (b) to encourage Aboriginals to register as voters. 
What sums have been set aside in the Departmental budgets for the financial years 1975-76, 1976-77, 1977-78, for publicity, advertising or other communications methods to encourage Aboriginals to register as voters. 
How many Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders currently resident in Australia, are eligible to vote, but have not registered to do so. 
How many reside in each State. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Can he give the Senate an estimate of the total cost to the Government of the McGregor Royal Commission? 
-The Senate is debating the 1978 Budget and we have just listened to a lengthy speech by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who was whistling in the dark. He denied that he was reading his speech when I raised the question during the course of it but some five minutes later has offered to table the whole speech. It will be fascinating reading for those of us who were not able to read it over the Minister's shoulder. I want to talk about education in the Budget context. 
-I do not intend to read it because I do not need to read it. The Minister does need to read it and that is something of which everybody listening will be aware. 
-I intend to quote from some of them and the first document from which I will quote is the Budget Speech. I want to deal with that very brief section of the Budget Speech which relates specifically to education. The Budget Speech states: 
The Budget provides for Commonwealth expenditure of almost $2,500m on education . . . 
It goes on to say where that money is to be spent, that is, in universities and colleges of advanced education. The Speech then states: 
In April a Working Party of the Tertiary Education Commission issued a draft report recommending that present arrangements for study leave in universities and colleges of advanced education be tightened up; the Government proposes to take action, effective from1 January 1979, to that end but will await the Commission's final report before announcing its decisions. 
The only other reference in the Budget Speech to education, apart from those passages, relates to taxation of postgraduate awards. During Question Time in the Senate today  Senator Carrick  was asked a number of questions about education, particularly in the 1978 Budget context. One of the questions he was asked was about student involvement in universities andhe gave a very interesting answer which showed quite clearly that the Minister for Education does not as yet understand the concept of university autonomy about which he so frequently talks. He just does not understand the concept. He was also asked by  Senator Mason  a question about postgraduate awards. Let me deal with those two specific issues which are mentioned in the Budget, firstly, study leave and, secondly, the taxation of postgraduate awards. University study leave has been the subject of an inquiry by the Tertiary Education Commission which has not yet finally reported. Nevertheless, the Government announced in this Budget that despite what that report contains it has made up its mind that the present arrangements for study leave will be tightened up. The second specific reference to education in the Budget is the Government's decision to tax postgraduate allowances, a decision with which I do not personally disagree, but one which I find extraordinary in view of the fact that in January 1978 the Government said that postgraduate allowances were not enough and increased them to $4,200. 
In its August 1978 Budget it has imposed taxation on those allowances which will reduce them to about $3,800. 
I have mentioned these two specific matters which were dealt with in the education part of the Budget Speech just to illustrate some simple points. The Government's policies in relation to education are confused and result from ad hoc decision making. There is uncertainty about the Government's and the Minister's attitudes to important issues such as university autonomy. For example, how is the Minister going to stop study leave without telling universities that their budgets will be cut or without interfering in the autonomy of universities? These two issues are quite illustrative of the Government's confusion about education policy and the importance which it continually attaches to the lip service it pays to its ideology. Why is it important in the context of a Budget Speech to mention the taxation of postgraduate allowances which will amount to $0.6m a year? Why is it important to mention study leave before the final report which was commissioned by the Government is presented? It is all related to the Government's obsession with what I suppose it would be pleased to term, good housekeeping. 
At the same time as it is talking about good housekeeping in respect of these quite peripheral education issues, it still has on board plans to develop Casey University at a cost of $ 100m, a socalled university to cater for 1,450 students belonging to the Services, students who could be accommodated equally well elsewhere. Of course, this is a grandiose commitment which has not yet been finally abandoned. It is an enormous commitment compared with these two smaller issues dealt with in the Budget. It is important to contrast that sort of grandoise commitment with the petty minded housekeeping issues to which I referred. 

 Senator Carrick illustrates again and again, in relation to all these problems, that he does not understand the issues about which he is talking.  His  attitude displayed today at Question Time reminded me of an advertisement I saw in the  Bulletin  recently by Kinnears, the rope people, relating to knotty problems, which  Senator Carrick  certainly has. Illustrated in that document- I will hold it up for  Senator Webster  because he might think I am reading from it; it is an illustrated document- is what is described as the 'Carrick bend', a type of knot with which we are fully familiar in the Senate. During Question Time today he got himself into an even greater problem called a 'multiple Carrick bend '. 
What I specifically want to discuss in the context of the Budget debate is the Government's schools policy and the direction in which it is taking this country. This policy also is characterised by ad hockery, the pursuit of narrow sectional interests- a traditional avenue of Liberal Party governments- and, more specifically, by the total absence of a foresighted commitment to Australian children, something which has characterised all Federal Liberal Party government education policies for many years, in favour of the piecemeal pursuit of a narrow ideology. It has always been difficult for Federal governments to grapple with education. It is not a matter which is reserved for the Federal Government of this country under the Constitution. There are always difficulties about grappling with the education policy. 
One should look at the Liberal Party tradition of government in relation to the involvement by the national Government in education policy. One should go back over the history of it. It is not very long. In the 1950s, of course,  Sir Robert  Menzies made the first concessions to the private schools sector in Australia by introducing tax concessions to independent schools. In 1963, in response to very real electoral pressure, we had science laboratories offered as an election gimmick to independent schools. We had further federal aid for schools during the 1960s. In 1967 we had again a piece of ad hockery when  Mr Harold  Holt as Prime Minister offered school libraries to independent schools. In 1969, under the looming pressure of electoral defeat, for the first time, under  Mr Malcolm  Fraser as the responsible Minister, capital and recurrent grants were offered for independent schools. 
The point I make simply about all this is that these offers of electoral bait at three elections brought about federal involvement in the Australian educational scene, as far as schools are concerned. They were all ad hoc responses to electoral pressure. There was no real education policy involved in any of those matters. The only policy which was reflected at that time was reflected in letters which the then Minister for Education,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, wrote to constituents. In those letters he said that the Liberal Party was dedicated to the support of wealthy private schools because they produced the leaders of this country. There are all sorts of value judgments in that statement with which even  Senator Carrick  in his most loquacious moments- I shudder to think what they would be like- would have difficulty in agreeing. I refer to the sorts of total inegalitarian assumptions in these remarks which were made by  Mr Fraser  as Minister for Education. 
The point is that there is no real policy involved in it at all. The first time that this country had a national educational policy that could possibly be called so, as distinct from a whole series of ad hoc emotional gestures in response to perceived electoral threat, and which was concerned in a foresighted way with the needs of every Australian school child was in 1973 when the Karmel Committee adopted the needs policy. That is the first deliberately considered policy on socially equitable grounds upon which a national government of this country has ever embarked. The important point about that policy is that it settled in a very real way the most divisive political issue that this country has probably known, and that was the so-called State aid debate. Our position and the position of the Government between 1973 and 1975 was quite clear on that issue, namely, that irrespective of whether children were being educated in private schools or in government schools every child in this country was entitled to the maximum assistance which a government could give based on the needs of that child. For the first time we put an end to the attitudes which were very prevalent in this country- in a sense they still are, particularly amongst government members- in which education is seen as a means of advancing one's own child as against other children in the community. For the first time there was a national effort to tackle that problem. For example, the Karmel report at page 48 said: 
. in all school systems and in some independent schools, the level of resources for teaching falls considerably below that in the better endowed ones. 
It therefore suggested a system of levels of resource. That was in 1973. The Schools Commission Act of that year specifically charged the Commission to advise on needs of both government and non-government schools. It recognised that the primary obligation in relation to education was for governments to provide and to maintain systems which are of the highest standard and which are open to all. 
Now in 1978 we look back through the mists of retrospect at the period of the Whitlam Government.  Senator Webster  did that for half an hour today. He reminded me of Glendower recalling the demons from the vasty deep, or whatever it was.  Senator Webster  did that for a long time. If we look back to that period we can see, as I said, that for the first time there was a diffusion of the very divisive social issue of State aid. But, more importantly, the national policy on education of the Labor Government stimulated the States to invest more in education. There was a national surge forward in education spending and in interest in education, sponsored by the Federal Government of the time, sponsored by the Schools Commission and followed by the State governments. For the first time there was introduced the principle of equity in school funding. 
When we look back to that period we still have to bear in mind, of course, the values, the spending and the attitudes of that time can be questioned and ought to be questioned. There is nothing new in questioning the approach to educational values, to raising again and again the question of concern to all Australians, namely, the question of quality in education. But  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education in the national Parliament, keeps saying again and again that Australian people are more concerned now about quality in education. They are not concerned so much about educational expenditure and things of that kind; they are concerned about quality. I really do not know what all that means. I do not know what that means in terms of a Greek migrant child in the inner suburbs of Melbourne who is told that  Senator Carrick  is concerned about quality in education, but I know that it is very important for that Greek migrant child to have the benefit of multilingual teaching in the school, to have the benefit of teachers who can speak in his language and in that of his family, who can speak to his parents, and who can help him to assess his identity in a difficult situation and in a difficult environment. 
I do not know what  Senator Carrick  is talking about when he says those things, but I do know what is important in terms of those things to the average child. It is no good just going on with this parrot cry of concern for quality- of course, that is important- if it is in fact a meaningless phrase. It is repeated again and again by people in Australia that there is a swing back to concern for the three Rs in education, to concern about standards and to concern about the product. Of course, that is an equally legitimate matter for debate and concern. The latest issue of  Education News  gives a very strong pointer in an article on the core curriculum in Australian schools to some of the difficulties about that simplistic approach to the problem of standards, to the alleged decline in the three Rs and so on. The article states: 
The influx of postwar migrants has made it impossible to perpetuate the myth of one language, one cultural heritage, and one set of shared beliefs and customs in Australia. Equally important have been the social, economic and political changes which have challenged the nature of society's dominant institutions and the basis of their authority. Many groups in society are now asserting their right to a greater role in redefining the culture that has traditionally accorded them little status or power. 
That is a very important comment about the sorts of difficulties - 
I am not saying that, senator. The point I am making, which I thought you would have been able to follow, is that what your Government's policy in relation to education and everything else is concerned about is to try to turn this country to the sort of simplistic situation of the mid 1960s, for example. The point I am trying to make is that society has changed very much since that time, the educational environment has changed since then and there are very great difficulties in confronting the sorts of simplistic solutions which people, like  Senator Baume,  would probably like to advance in answer to some of these problems. 
The second point I make about the initiatives of the Labor Government in relation to education and the development for the first time in this country of a clear national policy, as distinct from a set of ad hoc responses, is simply this: There is now a very real threat to the social compact by the actions of this Government over the past two and a half years. There was a social compact. There was an agreement about educational needs in this society. It was an agreement which united people concerned in education. It flowed from the Catholic sector and other areas of the non-government sector and into the Government sector as well. It had a mutual concern for the needs principle and the needs of every Australian child. That is all now in danger because this Government persists in pursuing a policy which is based on ideology rather than social equity. 
As I said before, the ideology was revealed by the present Prime Minister when he was Minister for Education in 1969 and wrote to constituents saying that he supported the wealthy schools in this country because they produced the leaders of our society. It is important to contrast that statement with the sort of statement which I just read about the work of the Curriculum Development Centre. The trend of this Government in trying to reverse that social compact and to introduce diversiveness into the Australian education system has been very clear in the last sets of guidelines given to the Schools Commission. There has been a decreasing responsibility for State schools. It is all very well for  Senator Carrick  to claim that the States are in a position to put more money into State schools. The fact is that none of the States has given an undertaking to do so. As recently as last week when the New South Wales Budget was presented the concept of new federalism, which according to  Senator Carrick  is going to benefit these people, was specifically rejected. 
In the last two sets of guidelines there has been very great concern for the interests of the wealthy private schools as distinct from the interests of the poorer independent or non-government schools and as distinct from the interests of children in government schools. The Government's narrowest prejudices show even within the Budget allocations to the independent or nongovernment school sector. This year, in response to the Government's publicly justified policy of increasing all independent school funding to at least 20 per cent of State costs, Level 1 and Level 2 schools in the non-government sector received increases in basic grants of up to $28 a pupil whilst Level 6 schools, the poorer Catholic primary schools, had increases of $5 a pupil. That is the most classic illustration within the nongovernment sector of this Government's commitment to inequality in education, a divisive commitment which tends to divide the Catholic child in this community from the Protestant child.  Senator Walters  nods her head, but she will get up and tell us all about it. It is a commitment which divides the Catholic school system child from the child in the government school. 
That is an area of great concern to the Opposition and it ought to be an area of concern to this Government if it is really convinced by its rhetoric. But it is not convinced because the figures speak differently. There is a built-in inequality within the non-government sector in the allocations which have been made by this Government. The money goes to the schools which this Government most favours, with some money going to other schools for electoral reasons. How else can one explain the vast discrepancies in the allocations to schools within the non-government sector? But the situation is not even explicable in the terms which  Senator Carrick  has used. In September 1977, in a speech at Saint Xavier High School here in the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Carrick  said: 
It is also nonsense to say that non-government schools are wealthy. The overwhelming majority of such schools are in level 6, the level of greatest need. 
Let us look at the figures. The allocation by the Government in the Budget to schools within the level of greatest need was $5 a pupil; the allocation to schools within the level of least need, the wealthy independent schools, was $28 a pupil. That is how  Senator Carrick  responds to his own analysis of the needs. 
As I said, that statement contains a clear admission by  Senator Carrick  of where the level of greatest need is. The level of greatest need is in the government schools of this country and in the Level 6 schools in the non-government sector. If that is so, why does this Government give most of the money to the better off areas? In efforts to justify the position which  Senator Carrick  adopts he has even misquoted Schools Commission reports on this very issue.  Senator Carrick  is a man who steps in the shoes of  Senator Withers,  a man who disappeared from the forefront of political life partly because he mislead this Parliament.  Senator Carrick  should be very careful. He should walk very cautiously in those shoes if he does not wish to follow the fate of his predecessor. Let us look at what  Senator Carrick  is reported in an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 7 July 1 977 to have said. The article states: 
In its July, 1976, report the Schools Commission noted that there is 'a marked gap between the resources available to Government schools and non-Government schools'. 

 Senator Carrick made that misquotation to justify a position which the article indicates he developed. If we refer to the Schools Commission report to which  Senator Carrick  referred, we see that it states something which in fact is quite different. It states: 
. there is still a marked gap between the resources available to Government schools and most non-Government schools. 
I stress the words 'most non-Government schools'.  Senator Carrick  very conveniently left out the word 'most'. Of course that is very significant and important because it is on the basis of that sort of omission that he seeks to justify publicly the Government's policy on the way it allocates funds to the wealthier sector of the nongovernment school system. 
The Minister also talks about the States having reached high standards. He says that they are up with targets and he just ignores the comments of bodies such as the Schools Commission, a national body which is not involved with the parochial interests of any particular State. He ignores the comments about the very big lag in providing buildings for schools. He says: 'Most of the States are up to target'. Of course, the two States which are not up to target are New South Wales and Queensland, which have almost exactly half the school children of Australia in their schools. So it is totally misleading for the Minister to rely on that sort of argument in support of a position towards school funding which the Government has adopted in this Budget. 
Of very great concern is the way in which this Government has approached this matter, As I said, the Government's approach is inequitable, divisive and is tending to set the interests of one child in our community against the interests of another. That is quite capable of leading to divisiveness and to the revival of the old State aid debate. This comes from a government which we were promised in the 1977 GovernorGeneral's Speech would be a government for all people in Australia, a government which one would hope at least would be a government for all children in Australia, and not a government which is dedicated to providing unequal resources for Australian school children. 
Of the greatest concern of all is the way that the Budget allocation and the speeches that have been made in conjunction with it totally ignore the current problems of Australian schools. There is a great number of those problems. Perhaps the Minister should have his attention drawn to a survey made last year by the New South Wales Department of Education which showed, for example, that some 9,225 children in New South Wales schools who responded to a survey in the last year of their school education said: 'Yes, I would have liked to have left school last year but I could not leave school because I could not get a job'. As many as 9,225 school children in New South Wales in years 9, 10 and 11 in their schooling made that statement. Of that number 884 school children were in the Liverpool area, alone, which is situated in the big Federal electorate of Werriwa, as I recall it. As many as 1 ,034 children were in the metropolitan west area. The cost of putting those children, who represent hidden factors in the unemployment figures of this country, on the dole would have been about $20m. 
It is important, as a current issue in education, to consider what the education system is in fact doing for those children, rather than to consider it as some glorified form of keeping the deficit as low as possible, of keeping down the unemployment figures. That ought to be an area of concern to this Government if, of course, it is prepared to consider some of the contemporary issues. All of these things are of great concern to the future of Australian school children. They are of concern to them after they leave school, and they ought to be of concern to all senators and to all who have a serious worry about the future of the educational system in this country. 
I sincerely hope that the Government in any later initiatives that it may take- if it is capable of taking initiatives- will try not to turn the clock back and reach a solution to these problems by reverting to the simplistic ideologies of the 1960s; that it will see the issue as it is now, because the issue of unemployment, for example, which I raised, and of hidden unemployment in schools, concerns all children, whether they be in government schools or in non-government schools. Of course, it concerns least those who are in the wealthy private schools, who are the greatest beneficiaries of this Budget as far as this Government is concerned. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Townley)-  Prior to calling  Senator Hamer,  I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that it will be his first speech in this place. I ask that honourable senators attend him the usual courtesy. 
My question directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence relates to the status of plans for the development of Casey University. I ask the Minister: What is the present situation regarding that matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Is the computer installed in the Minister's Department used for processing and storing data relating to correspondence of the Prime Minister's Department at an estimated cost of $30,000 in 1 978-79. 
Is this computer used for storing or processing data other than that relating to correspondence of the Prime Minister; if so, what is the nature of any other material stored or processed from time to time by the computer. 
What proportion of the $30,000 allocation is to be used for the design of computer programs relating to the Prime Minister's correspondence and what proportion for computer time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What statistics or information are available on the following matters: (a) the incidence of Australian printing requirements being met by export of work, rather than by printing in Australia, over the past five years; (b) the incidence of importation of printed matter, especially textbooks, rather than the printing of such material in Australia, over the past five years; and (c) any protective measures which are available to help the Australian printing industry. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What was (a) the total cost; and (b) the cost per head, of unemployment benefit paid to juniors in each of the financial years 1974-75, 1975-76, and 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) What precise plans does the Government have for the development of Casey University. 
Is there still a formally constituted planning committee for Casey University and what is the current status of that Committee. 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 1 82 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of N.S.W. and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1 979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk-  Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
I refer the Minister for Administrative Services to newspaper reports of the explanation given by a Liberal Party official for the keeping of two sets of receipt books in the electorate of Flinders as being necessary to find a way round the $500 limit on electoral expenditure imposed by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Does the Minister accept that there may be a need to find an illegal way round the limitation on electoral expenditure? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Has any direction been given by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal under section 1 16 of the Broadcasting and Television Act forbidding the broadcasting of election matter on radio or television by the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party between midnight last night and polling day next Saturday for the by-election in Werriwa? If so, at what time was such a direction issued? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and relates to the announcement last week by the Liberal Government in Victoria of a grant of $250,000 to assist unemployed youth in the city of Ballarat. I ask the Minister, as the person representing the Minister responsible for the compilation of unemployment statistics as well as for employment in this country, whether there are any special circumstances either in the number or problems of unemployed youth in Ballarat, other than a byelection, which distinguish those youth from any other unemployed youth anywhere else in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) What was: (a) the total value of Commonwealth support; and (b) the value of such support per student, for (i) universities; (ii) colleges of advanced education; and (iti) technical colleges, for each of the financial years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What was the total level of State government support and the per head student level, for the same years. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I remind the Minister of the findings of the Jackson Committee that industrial morale in Australia was very much adversely affected by a poor industrial safety record and by inadequate services for migrant workers. Does the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations have any means of compiling statistics which show time lost as a result of industrial accidents and time lost as a result of contraction of industrial disease throughout Australia? If so, are these statistics compiled on a regular basis and could they be made available to the Parliament? 
-I rise very briefly to support the comments by  Senator Ryan.  I want to comment on this report in a slightly different context.  Senator Ryan  has dealt with the communications aspect of the report. I want to say something about it from the point of view of my role as Opposition spokesman in the Senate on legal matters and on matters which, in a sense, relate to the way in which the Government goes about its business in relation to inquiries of this kind. On page 5 of the statement of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  it is indicated that the Government has established a working group to consider the implications of both the report and its recommendations. The statement mentions also that it will be available to interested members of the public. I take those words to mean that the report will be available to interested members of the public. The Government intends to allow a full three months for public consideration of the report. The Minister then invites the broadest possible public input and comments from interested parties, groups, et cetera. 
I would like to emphasise the very real importance of this report at a time when this Parliament is perhaps slowly and reluctantly beginning to consider the implications of technological change in ali areas. I just draw the Senate's attention to the fact that when one is considering the question of technological change, the communications system of a country lies at the eye of the storm. If we are moving into a period when society will be far more dependent on technology than it has been in the past, when the implications of technology will have far more effect on the lifestyle of citizens, and if we are moving, as it is said, into what will become an information based society- that is to say, information will be the most important resource that any society has available to it- I find that the machinery that has been adopted by the Government to consider a report of such importance as this report is just totally inadequate. The period of three months that has been suggested to allow interested members of the public to consider the implications of this matter is inadequate. 
No procedure has been made available for members of the public to participate. It is quite clear that the Government- if I read the statement correctly- has decided that a government working party will be established to deal with this matter. This is totally inadequate because this is not just a question of the Government considering this very important aspect of changed technology in the private area of its Party and getting some input by way of odd contributions from individuals who take the opportunity to make submissions. As  Senator Ryan  pointed out, it is a matter which should be dealt with in the most public way and it should not be rushed through in three months. Already there is dissatisfaction with this report of the task force because it has been dealt with very quickly compared with the very detailed consideration which the Australian Telecommunications Commission gave to it. It is absolutely essential that public discussion be initiated on the aspects of this report. If that sort of public discussion is not allowed, in two or three years people will be wondering what happened when the recommendations of the report were adopted and why they were not given time to consider it adequately. 
I urge the Minister for Administrative Services, as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, to give consideration to this question because it is not a matter which should be treated as lightly as any other ministerial statement which comes down in the Senate or as any other report which comes forward from a task force or a committee. I hope that much greater time will be given for consideration of the implications of this report and the proper approach which should be made in the interests of society as a whole. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I want to devote my remarks to the failure of the Government's industrial relations policy. I must indicate that what I have to say to the Senate was prompted in part by recent events and in part by a thoughtful speech made in the Senate yesterday afternoon by  Senator Hamer  on a somewhat similar topic. In his speech  Senator Hamer  referred, amongst other things, to the ineptitude of Government submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which has been a matter of considerable public comment. More importantly, he referred to the direction of Government intervention before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, indicating intervention has been too frequent and perhaps not directed to the right point.  Senator Archer  in the remarks he has just made had something to say about the area of industrial relations when he commented on the building industry and the disputes in the building industry in Victoria. I remind  Senator Archer  that the former Minister for Public Works in Victoria,  Mr Roberts  Dunstan, had something to say about this only a month or so ago, when he said that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had done more harm to the construction industry in Victoria in two years than Norm Gallagher, the Secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation, had done in five years.  Mr Dunstan  went on to make some comments about what the Prime Minister had done to the economy of this country, comments which my natural modesty and sensitivity to the delicate sensibilities of Government senators prevent me from repeating in this chamber. 
-Yes, he is a Liberal, a former Minister in the Liberal Government in Victoria. Some Government senators will recall what  Mr Dunstan  had to say about what the present Prime Minister had done to the economy of this country, but I will not repeat that here. The area of industrial relations has been one of the areas of most conspicuous failure of the present Government. If at this stage there is an area of conspicuous failure as distinct from general failure, that is surely it. The present Government just does not know how to deal with industrial relations problems. Not only does it not know how to deal with industrial relations problems, it has consistently been guilty of bluster, dishonesty and blatant manipulation of the industrial relations system in this country for political purposes. I remind the Senate that the Minister responsible is called the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I do not need to remind the Senate of the shoddy record of this Government in relation to the employment aspect of the Minister's role, but I will refer to it briefly. 
I ask honourable senators to recall what we were promised in 1975 in terms of a new era of industrial relations in Australia and a new era of employment. We were promised by the Prime Minister that only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government would there be jobs for all who want them. That promise was made in 1975 and again in the early part of 1976. There were numerous promises in 1976 and 1977 about curing unemployment. The cure for unemployment was just around the corner, we were told. All these promises were based on either blatant dishonesty about the real situation or a totally ill-informed analysis of the nature of unemployment in Australia. Late last year and early this year the Prime Minister was promising that unemployment would fall from February. Again, that was a totally wrong analysis of the nature of unemployment in Australia. In 1976 and 1 977 this Government quite cynically and deliberately developed in the community what was known as the dole bludger syndrome. Quite blatantly it accused young people who were unemployed of being dole bludgers. The harm that has done to a generation of young people who have been victims of unemployment is almost incapable of assessment, but I am sure that very great and considerable harm has been done by that cynical political exercise in 1976 and 1977, ignoring the realities of the situation. I am sure that the harm that has been done is quite tremendous. Only after a statement was made last week by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  about the true nature of unemployment as he saw it and the likely future for unemployed people in this country- some two days after the Prime Minister had made a totally contrary statement- was there some honest acceptance within the Government ranks of the size and nature of the problem this country is facing. 
What  Mr Street  said, of course, was that we could look to no short-term solutions to the unemployment problem. He said that we could look well into the 1980s to an unemployment level of at least 4.5 per cent. He pointed to the number of jobs that would have to be created every year in order to accommodate school leavers. He pointed to the fact that in the next decade it was likely that one out of every 10 school leavers at least would be unemployed, and possibly permanently unemployed. This is an enormous problem about which the Opposition has been talking in this place for some time. But following the revelations made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations last week about the nature of unemployment as he saw it, the Government has tended to say: 'Oh, yes, well we knew that all along. We have really been telling you about it'. The Government just sort of changes its line and goes on with the same sort of rhetoric and sloganeering about a problem in respect of which little has been done. In all this time, in the three years in which this Government has been in office, we have had this totally cynical, political approach to this problem. 
Earlier I used the word 'manipulation'. I cite perhaps the most cynical example of all time, and the most recent, in terms of manipulation. The Victorian Liberal Government, that tottering and dishonest Government in the State of Victoria, last week said that it would make $250,000 available for youth unemployment schemes in the area of Ballarat. Why? It is because there is to be a sensitive by-election in the area of Ballarat in a month's time. That is why that $250,000 was made available. What is it that makes Ballarat different from every other country town in Australia? What is it that makes Ballarat different from every other country town in Victoria? What is it that makes Ballarat, in terms of the unemployment problem, including the unemployment problems of young people, different from every other major city in Australia? The answer, of course, is nothing. 
My main purpose in contributing to this debate is to talk not about the unemployment part of the Government's record in this area, but rather about the industrial relations part and the record of the Government in this area, which is again an area of most cynical manipulation. If one looks back at the record in this area, one finds that the seeds of the Government's present policies can be found in an important speech made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in August 1975 when giving the industrial relations policy of what turned out to be the incoming government. At an industrial relations convention in Perth,  Mr Fraser  had this to say: 
To achieve a more reasoned industrial climate the LiberalNational Country Party believe that rules must be established that carry consequences. 
He went on to elaborate on that, and said: 
In addition, we propose an Industrial Relations Bureau as a third arm of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This purpose would be to secure observance of industrial law. 
In another part of the same speech he made another very important and, in my view, totally inconsistent statement. He said: 
Our view is that satisfactory industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. Attitudes of mutual respect, of willingness to listen, to understand, to reason and discuss in an informed way, are essential. These attitudes cannot be created by any party's industrial relations policies. 
There we have the Jekyll and Hyde of this Government's industrial relations policy spelt out. We have the Jekyll part of the Prime Minister's speech in which he stresses that satisfactory industrial relations depend upon the attitudes of mind of people in industry and depend very much on a willingness to negotiate, a willingness to listen and to see the other's point of view. The other section, the Hyde section, is the promise as regards the Industrial Relations Bureau- the third arm of the conciliation and arbitration system. 
Let us look at how this has developed since then. The third arm of the conciliation and arbitration system which was promised to the Australian people in 1975 and again in 1976 and 1977 has turned out to be the withered arm of the conciliation and arbitration system. A Bill to set up the Industrial Relations Bureau was introduced late in 1978. The Industrial Relations Bureau has now been set up. Last year, because of all the promise about what it would do for the industrial relations system in this country it cost $1.5m in appropriations voted by this Senate. This year, in this Budget, the Parliament is being asked to appropriate more than $3m for the Industrial Relations Bureau. What has it ever done as regards industrial relations in Australia since the germ of the idea was put forward by the Prime Minister in Perth in August 1975? We know what it has cost, but it has done nothing. The real purpose of my mentioning that is to ask the rhetorical question: Whatever happened to the Industrial Relations Bureau? 
As a matter of fact, it is not the Industrial Relations Bureau which is the third arm of this Government's conciliation and arbitration system; it is Bob Hawke who is the third arm of the industrial relations system in this country. He is unpaid for the work that he does in settling industrial disputes.  His  negotiating skills have brought to an end almost every major industrial dispute that has occurred since the Fraser Government came to power. This Government, since it came to power, has done nothing to settle industrial disputes; it has been  Mr Hawke  who has been responsible for the settlement of most of those disputes in the public interest. We have had from the Government a lot of bluster and a lot of action designed to exacerbate disputes and to seek to make cheap political capital out of industrial disputes, but no positive action- and it is ridiculous not to recognise that fact. Again I say that there is this dichotomy, this confusion in the Government between the blustering which is indulged in by  Mr Fraser  and, in more recent times, the problem-solving-negotiating role towards which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is nervously moving, but from which he is always being pulled back into line by his old school mate and leader,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. Of course it is one of the facts of political life in this country that political capital can be made out of industrial disputes by an unscrupulous government which is not prepared to make the system work in the best interests of this country, but which is designing all the time to make the system work in the best interests of a particular political party. 
Last week, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations announced the setting up of an ad hoc committee of Ministers to supervise the Government's role in industrial relations. There was some confusion about who was to be the  chairman  of that committee. Finally it was sorted out that after all it was to be  Mr Street.  The Minister, in setting up that committee and in making an announcement about it, had this to say: 
This Government has done more than any other to improve the standard of industrial relations and to encourage a more positive contribution from all those involved in helping to attain our national objectives. 
Let us look at that statement, that high-minded piece of rhetoric from the Minister a week ago and compare it with the situation in this Senate, for example. Some honourable senators who have been here for two or three years but who may have no experience with or no knowledge of industrial relations can look at their own experience regarding this matter. We have worked a lot of overtime in the Senate in the last two yearssomething which has been denied the average Australian worker under the present economic circumstances- passing emergency industrial relations legislation which has never been implemented. Let me remind the Senate of some of that legislation. Honourable senators unfamiliar with this area can judge for themselves in the light of their own experience. Since the Government was elected in 1975 with promises of better things to come in the area of industrial relations, nothing has really happened apart from legislation introduced in this chamber. In 1976, nothing was done. In 1977, in the Autumn session of Parliament, the trade practices legislation was introduced as emergency legislation. It was gagged through the Senate which sat a day late to deal with it. It was introduced as emergency legislation dealing with secondary boycotts. 
It has not worked and I would be delighted to have any information that anybody knew anything about the legislation except that it has been totally inoperative. That was introduced in the Senate by means of a special sitting. Then in June of 1977, at another special sitting of the Senate, the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation was introduced. I said earlier that that has not worked although we have paid a lot of money to set up that body. It has not worked and will not work, and the reason that it has not worked and will not work is that neither the employers nor the employees in Australia want that legislation. None of the people concerned wants that legislation. Some honourable senators will recall that in 1977 one of the justifications for an early election, although now, as a result of a royal commission in Queensland, we begin to hear others, was that the Government wanted additional muscle to stand up to militant unions in Australia. We were told at the time that the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation would be part of this and that if the Government got a big vote in the 1977 election it would be proved to be right. I do not know how the Government now interprets its inactivity since then. 
In August 1977 this Senate again sat to consider the Commonwealth employees employment legislation to deal with Public Service disputes. That was introduced coincidentally at the time of the Redfern postal dispute which, of course, was settled by  Mr Hawke  ultimately by a process of negotiation. That was introduced at that time and there was a lot of huff and puff from the Prime Minister and others about how this legislation was again going to solve our problems with regard to industrial relations. The Senate sat here in continuation, there was a lot of heat and no light, and the legislation has never been proclaimed. That is how we waste the time and money of the Australian taxpayers in the Senate- by sitting here at considerable cost, after coming back from all the States of the Commonwealth, in special sessions to deal with legislation which is never proclaimed. The Industrial Relations Bureau legislation was never used; the Commonwealth employees legislation was never proclaimed; and the trade practices legislation has never been used. As I have said, in terms of a promise of better things to come from this Government, all these things were wasting the time of the Senate and leading us nowhere. Later that year, 1977, there was also the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill dealing with deregistration of unions. Again this was a matter of urgency in the Senate but nothing has been done as a result. 
All this industrial relations legislation, full of sound and fury and signifying nothing, is the mark of a government which is totally barren in terms of policies in this area. It is prepared to try anything. It is prepared to stoop to any cynical exercise in order to huff and puff about what it is going to do but in fact it does nothing; and the mark of that is right here in the Senate. Members of the Government parties seem to come out like werewolves with the phases of the moon to talk  about industrial relations, to give knee-jerk responses to particular situations, and to make a lot of noise. Then they go back to their coffins to wait for the next industrial dispute. This has all the marks of a government which has no policies, which is totally divided, which has a weak Minister who is overshadowed by the Prime Minister, who is full of huff and puff and bluster and noise about what he is going to do, but which in fact has done nothing and is content to leave the settlement of industrial disputes in this country to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
Let us look at some of the major industrial disputes which this Government has had on its hands. In each of them the Prime Minister made a lot of noise. There was a lot of tough talk. It was said that the Prime Minister was a tough man who was going to fix up all these things. But of course that- never happened. First of all, there was the air traffic controllers' dispute. We were told that the Government was going to bring air traffic control experts from overseas, but those overseas air traffic controllers had a different view about that. Then we were told that the Royal Australian Air Force was going to be sent in but it was found that it had only two air traffic controllers amongst its numbers. We did not hear much more about that idea. There was talk of tough legislation to resolve the dispute and in the end the Government did nothing to resolve it. But it did do something; I say quite frankly that what it did was to intervene in that dispute to prolong it for cynical political gain. I cite as evidence of that a transcript of proceedings in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission where the employees who were stood down during the course of the air traffic controllers dispute had their case considered. Evidence was given by  Mr Fenton,  Personnel Director of Trans-Australian Airlines. He explained in his evidence that the airlines and the unions felt that they could settle the dispute but that it went on a lot longer than they hoped for. He was asked: 
That required some sort of permission from TAA, did it? 
His answer was: 
It was political- it had become a matter which required reference to the Minister for Transport. 
He goes on to elaborate on that statement. Of course, that was what the Government did in the air traffic controllers' dispute. Far from trying to settle the dispute and introducing its legislation to affect the situation, to bring light rather than heat into the situation, it intervened to prolong the dispute. 
Then we had the Latrobe Valley dispute in Victoria, a long, damaging and difficult industrial dispute. The same pattern was followed- it was ultimately settled by the arbitration process. The same happened with the big postal dispute- it was ultimately settled by the arbitration process. Only a week or two ago there was the waterside workers' dispute. What did the Government do? At a special, much publicised meeting of the Cabinet- an emergency meeting it was called- the Government said that it was not going to be stood over by the Waterside Workers Federation. It would have done much better to listen to the National Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation, Charlie FitzGibbon, one of the most respected industrialists in this country, when he pointed out that the problem in the waterside workers' dispute was that waterside workers were not going to be stood down in their thousands and go without pay because of the activities of 70-odd people in another union.  Mr FitzGibbon  drew attention to the importance from the unions' point of view of amalgamations. In this Senate in 1 974 and 1 975 the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition, which had the numbers, three times threw out legislation which would have enabled unions to amalgamate much more easily than they can now. Between 1975 and 1978 what has this Government done to assist amalgamations by trade unions in a country where we have approximately 300 unions compared with 16 in 
West Germany and eight or ten in Sweden? What has this Government done on that question? The answer is nothing. But when in Opposition, with the numbers in the Senate, it was prepared to stop a government which tried to do something about this question. Of course, the issue comes back to haunt the Government parties with the waterside workers' dispute of a week or two ago. 
There are 29 unions on the wharves alone, I am told. The Government is not prepared to do anything about that situation because it has no policy. It simply manipulates the industrial relations system for political purposes. 
Lastly, let me refer to the Telecom Australia dispute of quite recent vintage. The Senate will recall that that dispute was about the consequences of the introduction of new technology in Telecom. The arbitration commissioner who had to deal with the matter when this Government intervened in the dispute had this to say: 
If I might paraphrase some words from a High Court decision, anyone with a 'modicum of knowledge ' or a pretence of expertise in this field would or should have known of the inevitable result of filing an application for a bans clause within 20 minutes or so of my recommendation. It has resulted I think in an inevitable hardening ... of views. 
He goes on to say that the Government had thrown oil on the flames instead of cooling the situation, which was what he was trying to do. What was the Fraser Government's role in that dispute? Why did the Fraser Government tell Telecom that the Australian Council of Trade Unions could not enter the dispute two weeks before it in fact did so? The reason is quite simple. The Government did not want the dispute settled for political reasons. This again is an example of precisely the sort of action which the Government takes. Those honourable senators who remember the circumstances of the dispute will recall the Prime Minister saying at the time- again it was a bit of huff and puff to show himself to be a tough guy- 'The union cannot and will not win. The members will not be paid'. The members were paid and the dispute was settled. But it was not settled by this Government; it was settled again by the intervention of the ACTU and by the processes of the conciliation and arbitration system which this Government sought to subvert by endeavouring to delay negotiations. 
What did the Government do in relation to the issue involved in this dispute? It syphoned off that issue of technology to be dealt with by a private committee of Public Service bureaucrats. It did not hold a public inquiry into this matter which is of great concern to the Australian public. What did the Press have to say about this matter? The  Australian  of 26 August 1978 had this to say: 
Sooner or later. Malcolm Fraser will have to put his body where his mouth is . . . 
This is in regard to industrial relations. When the Minister did call the meeting of the National Labour Advisory Council, the Melbourne  Age  of 30 August 1978 said: 
But most important,  Mr Hawke  used his logic and negotiating skill in the presence of senior Telecom executives to extract from  Mr Street  the undertaking that Telecom was free to negotiate without Government interference. 
What a triumph it is for a government to have that said about it. The article went on to say: 
Without the constraints and direction of the Government, Telecom executives agreed to throw open for detailed talks all the issues that had prevented any progress until then. 
For the benefit of  Senator Walters,  I shall quote from the Launceston  Examiner  of 31 August which made a similar comment. 

 -No, Senator, I have not touched on the live sheep dispute yet. However, I have a lot of dead sheep sitting opposite and I am trying to wake them up to some realities. The Launceston  Examiner  had this to say: 
It appears that once again the intervention of the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  was a vital factor in breaking an industrial log-jam. It is believed that he paved the way for progress by persuading the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  to publicly state that Telecom had the right to negotiate a settlement free of Government interference. 
As I said earlier, the Government has a long and cynical record of using industrial relations for its own political purposes. It has a record of total failure in relation to legislation which has been brought into this Senate. It has a record of total failure in relation to the settlement of industrial disputes. The important point in all this is evident in Malcolm Fraser's own original speech. On the one hand, he says that settlements can be achieved only by negotiation. On the other hand, he says: 'I am a tough guy, and I am going to do it my way'.  His  way has failed and it has left the Government with an ambivalent policy in this area. That policy will be a failure because we live in a pluralist society and we have to understand the implications of that. We cannot enjoy the luxury of condemning trade unions and not condemning the Australian Medical Association or the Australian Federation of Air Pilots when they take similar action. We cannot indulge ourselves with demonology, if this Government is to be a government for all the people. More importantly, we cannot go into the future in an atmosphere of distrust. We cannot consider all the vital problems in which this country will be involved in the next few years, as the industrial situation changes and as technology advances upon us, in an atmosphere free from negotiation and in an atmosphere of total distrust. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
-I present the following petition from 63 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave-I said as much as I had to say and as much as I believe that it is really appropriate to say when I moved the motion that this matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I seek leave to amend my motion by adding the following words: 
That the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report as soon as possible, in so far as the Bill relates to issues common to or related to the inquiry into the Freedom of Information Bill 1978. 
That, subject to paragraph (2), the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report as soon as possible. '. 
Leave granted. 
I think it is quite obvious that these two matters have been considered by various honourable senators and the amendment to the motion is regarded as appropriate. Might I just state briefly the reasons for it. The Archives Bill was presented to the Senate at the same time as the Freedom of Information Bill. It contains issues relating to the national archives which, in the view of some honourable senators at least, involve the same principles in relation to the disclosure of documents and the methods by which the disclosure of documents may be brought about as those in the Freedom of Information Bill itself. For that reason it is felt appropriate that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs should examine that Bill at the same time. I envisage that the major inquiry of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs would be directed towards the provisions of the freedom of information legislation, and it may be that after the members of the Committee determine what principles they think should apply in relation to that legislation they could as a more supplementary matter examine the terms of the Archives Bill to see whether they think that those principles are appropriate for application to legislation of that kind. 
The second paragraph of the amendment deals with the question of the Archives Bill being referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report as soon as possible. There are some difficulties about determining the proper demarcation of functions of various standing committees of the Senate in relation to some legislation that comes here. The Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has considered over a long period that libraries and other information sources are within the province of that Committee. In pursuit of its function in relation to both education and the arts the Committee is concerned to deal with aspects of the information system of this country provided by libraries, resource centres and other institutions which disseminate information, and it is in respect of those aspects that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, I envisage, would examine this reference. From the point of view of the Committee it might be quite a small reference and it may be that from time to time the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts would want to consult with the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs about the matters which it is considering in relation to the Archives Bill. In my view as the mover and, I believe, in the view of other honourable senators, whether it is appropriate for a full scale reference investigation to be embarked on by either committee is a matter for each of the committees and I do not think that it is a matter in respect of which I should delay the Senate in debate now. I know that at least some of my colleagues on this side of the chamber are anxious to speak on this motion and on the amendment. 
in reply- I wish to reply only very briefly to the comments made by other honourable senators. I congratulate  Senator Davidson  on the speech he has just made. I, in rather elliptical and vague terms, sought to explain earlier why the matter should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts.  Senator Davidson,  with his customary skill, went straight to the heart of the matter and, speaking in terms of the National Library, explained exactly why this sort of matter should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. He made a very valuable and direct contribution which I welcome and I congratulate him for it. 
I have already made a number of remarks about the substance of this motion and the two subsequent amendments which have been moved to the motion. I think it only fair to my colleague,  Senator Evans,  that I should say something briefly about the exchange which took place when  Senator Lewis  emerged from the womb of his room, if I might put it in those terms, and into the Senate - 
-Yes, he has now returned to it, after making a vigorous attack on the speech made by  Senator Evans.  If I might put it in these terms without offence,  Senator Evans  suffers the difficulty which many honourable senators suffer from time to time in a situation like this in that they are already very much on the public record by means of newspaper articles or speeches made outside this chamber about some of the issues involved in a reference of this kind. It would be absurd to expect  Senator Evans  to come into this chamber tonight and retreat from a general position which he has publicly taken beforehand. I have absolute confidence that  Senator Evans,  as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, will discharge his obligations in an impartial way and will be, as indeed he always is, open to persuasion in relation to the issues and the evidence which will come before the Committee. That capacity is not detracted from by general appreciation and sentiment in relation to the issues involved in a matter of this kind. I am sure that that will be the situation here. 
I hope that  Senator Lewis,  who was so strongly motivated to bring himself into the Senate tonight and make that contribution, will in some way or another give the Senate Committee the benefit of his views on the subject matter of this legislation. It is an important matter about which honourable senators ought to have views. I am sure, in all charity, that  Senator Lewis  has gone back to his room to prepare a submission to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs about the issues involved in this debate on the freedom of information legislation. 
I could not sit down without mentioning the contribution of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  who reminded me of the captain who went down with his ship. Clearly the AttorneyGeneral, as the responsible Minister, had nailed his flag to the mast of the Bill which was introduced into the Senate a week or two ago. But again, because of unseen forces both in the Opposition and, one suspects, on the Government side, the Attorney-General was persuaded to modify the position that he had previously adopted about the validity of the present legislation. In fact, I do not think I am revealing any secrets when I say that he accused me in a not unfriendly way earlier this evening of trying to deny the people of Australia the benefits of the Freedom of Information Bill as drafted by his Department. I guess I will have to plead guilty to that. I can do so politically in the knowledge that the vast masses of the people of Australia are not as yet as concerned as they might be about the contents of the Freedom of Information Bill, but perhaps that will come in time. I commend the motion, as amended, to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  as Minister for Education and also as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask: In view of a recent answer to me that it was the intention of the Government to proceed with the establishment of Casey University, will the establishment of the university be solely a matter for the Minister for Defence and the Department of Defence? Has the Minister for Education some views about the desirability of establishing an isolated educational institution? I further ask: Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an article in the journal of the Australian Naval Institute of August 1978 in which there is very strong criticism of the proposal to isolate defence personnel in a single purpose institution and strong applause for the Navy's present policy of sending its young undergraduates to existing universities? This policy was regarded as highly successful because of the exchange the undergraduates can have with civilian students. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What is the current value of contracts, tenders or other sales or leasing agreements undertaken by Federal Government departments, agencies, instrumentalities and statutory corporations for equipment, services or goods to be supplied by the computer company, IBM Australia Limited. 
What was the value of such goods, services or equipment supplied to the Government by IBM Australia Limited for the years 1968-1977 inclusive. 
What is the current value of contracts, tenders or other sales or leasing agreements entered into by Federal Government departments, agencies, instrumentalities and statutory corporations for equipment, services or goods in the computer area, by other computer companies. 
What was the value of such goods, services or equipment supplied to the Government by other computer companies for the years 1 968- 1 977 inclusive. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. In view of the extension of sovereignty to 200 miles off-shore, has any consideration been given by the Government to the training of people needed for research and data gathering in the marine sciences? Has the Tertiary Education Commission carried out any assessment of the adequacy of research and teaching facilities in Australian tertiary institutions in view of the likely increase in activity in this 200-mile area? 
-The Senate is debating cognately a number of taxation Bills which provide for the legislative enactment of the taxation proposals announced by the Government in the Budget. There are a number of measures in this so-called package, which has all the characteristics of a blown-up letter bomb, but I want to speak only about the measures which seem to me to be most important. I remind senators that we speak about these items of legislation in the context of a government which in the 1977 election cynically exploited its proposed February taxation deductions for the purposes of that election. In the course of that election campaign the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
We have reduced taxes, revived incentive and restored fair reward for achievement. 
That is a high flying piece of rhetoric, someone as cynical as I might say. He went on to say: 
The Australian people will not accept a return to high taxes.-The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 

 Senator Townley, who has just spoken in this debate- modestly, if I might say so- drew attention to some of the discrepancies between the Government's action and its past statements in relation to retrospectivity in taxation legislation. The Prime Minister said in December last year that the Australian people would not accept a return to high taxes and that the Government would bring taxes down further, not increase them. More graphically, listeners will recall the advertisements of the Liberal-National Country Party Government in the election campaign in November and December last year. Those advertisements, which appeared both on television and in the newspapers, brandished fistfuls of dollars in front of the Australian electors- fistfuls of what turned out to be phoney or counterfeit money. More graphically still listeners will remember that the people of Australia were asked to dial a tax cut- to ring up to find out what the Fraser Government would give to them in February 1978 if it were returned to power. It was a service provided to them by the Liberal and National Country parties. I understand that many people availed themselves of that service and rang up to find out what their tax cut would be in February 1978. 'Dial-a-tax-cut', the service was called. 
One might ask in the Senate whether it is the intention of the Government to provide on 1 November 1978 for the electors of Australia, the facility of dialling a tax rise. If we asked that question in the Senate we would be told: 'That is not within the responsibility of a Minister in the Senate. It is not our responsibility to say in the Senate what the Government would do about this because it is a Liberal Party responsibility. The Party did it in 1977 when it advertised dialataxcut; if it wants to do it in 1978 that is not within my ministerial responsibility'. However, it is the responsibility of every Minister in the Senate and the responsibility of every Minister in this Government, including the Prime Minister, because they are the people who in 1977 initiated that campaign for their own benefit. That is one of the reasons they sit where they do today, but they will not offer the same facility to the people of Australia on 1 November 1978. 
In fairness to the Government, there may have been a need for the tax rises which have been imposed. Perhaps it was necessary to break the promises made in 1977 in order to meet the pompous rhetoric which Ministers were engaging in about the size of the deficit. I admit that this is a very difficult dilemma to be in- to make promises on the one hand, to indulge in pompous rhetoric on the other and then to find in 1978, as people were pointing out to them that they would find, that the two were inconsistent. The reason why the deficit has increased and the tax cuts had to be imposed were as I have given them before in the Senate, and they were eloquently summarised by a former Liberal member of the Victorian Government when he said that  Mr Fraser  had ruined the economy and the building industry. He also said that the Prime Minister had done something else to the economy, but I cannot mention it here because of the Standing Orders. The 'former Minister is reported to have said: 
Fraser will cause a greater calamity in the next 12 months in the building industry than Gallagher has caused in the past five years. Over the next 12 months there'll be more Mainlines' caused by Fraser's fiscal madness than in the whole period of the Whitlam Government. 
That is what a responsible Minister, a Minister for many years in the Victorian Liberal Government, had to say about the present Government's management of the economy. That may be one of the reasons why the solemn promises of 1977 had to be abandoned in favour of the tax rises which are contained in this legislative package now before the Senate. 
There are one or two aspects of the legislation contained in the package to which I will refer. Firstly, I refer to the  2lh  per cent surcharge on taxable income which all Australian taxpayers will pay after 1 November 1978. 
It is in fact  2Yi  per cent. It is  Vh  per cent over the full year, and that is the matter to which I was just coming. I am grateful to the honourable senator for his interjection; he is speeding me along. From 1 November 1978 the surcharge will be effectively  2lA  per cent but will represent a surcharge of 1 V4 per cent over the whole financial year. 
-As pointed out by  Senator Walsh,  this relates to income. It is a repudiation of an electoral promise and in our opinion it will further depress demand in this country. An amount of $560m will be gained by the Fraser Government. This money will be taken out of the pockets of the taxpayers, consumers and spenders of this country. We believe that that will have an important consequence. But the worst aspect of the surcharge- the income tax rise which people will have to pay on 1 November 1978 as distinct from the income fax fall that was promised in 1977- is the gross inequality of the proposals. If one considers the February so-called tax cuts, the phoney tax cuts, the tax cuts heralded with handfuls of counterfeit money and the November increase, one sees that 55 per cent of the Australian community- people without dependants and people with dependants on about the average weekly income level- will be worse off as a result of these two packages of tax cuts and tax rises put together. 
In a moment I will seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  two tables. One relates to taxpayers without dependants and the other to taxpayers with dependent spouses. They show that for persons on incomes of between $ 1 14 a week and $200 a week there will be significant increases in taxes as a result of the two packagesthe so-called February tax cuts and the November increases- taken together. The same sort of situation applies to taxpayers in that income group with dependent spouses. The table which I will seek to have incorporated shows that it is those people in the community with incomes of between $ 1 14 and $200 a week who will suffer most as a result of this proposal from 'a government for all the people', as the Prime Minister reminded us in 1977. The tables show that it is not a government for all the people with regard to the much vaunted Fraser freedom to have money in one's pocket. It is a government for the wealthy people; it is not a government for the people on those income scales.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have the two tables to which I have referred incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 

Table 1 
TAXPAYER WITHOUT DEPENDANTS 
Weekly tax payments - Difference between 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Income 1 July (78) 1 Nov. (78) 1 Feb. (78) 1 Nov. increase and (weekly) to 31 Oct. (78) to 30 June (79) Increase tax saving 1 Feb. saving 
Table 2 
TAXPAYER WITH DEPENDENT SPOUSE 
Weekly tax payments - Difference between 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Income 1 July (78) 1 Nov. (78) 1 Feb. (78) 1 Nov. increase and 
-I thank the Senate. The worst thing about the  2Vt  per cent surcharge on incomes which will commence on 1 November 1978 for all Australian taxpayers, all voters, all people listening to the Senate, is its gross inequity. Of course that is consistent with one or two other items in this so-called package to which I wish to refer. 
The next matter on which I comment is the question of the taxation of annual leave and long service leave. This means simply, in terms of the annual leave entitlement of a worker on a wage of, for example, $200 a week who under the present arrangements which he has enjoyed year after year, instead of paying tax of about $13 on four weeks annual leave entitlement amounting to $800 which is taxed on 5 per cent of the total when his employment is terminated, he will now pay $267 instead of $13 which he would have paid hitherto. In my submission in simple terms that indicates what that sort of provision will do. All annual leave payments on termination of employment after 15 August will be taxed at the rate of 33V4 per cent. All long service leave that accrues after 15 August will be taxed at the rate of  33lA  per cent when paid on termination of employment. As I said, at the moment these lump sums are taxable to the extent of only 5 per cent of the total. 
I refer the Senate to the sort of calculation in respect of annual leave which affects a worker on $200 a week. What does this mean? Has the Government given attention to what this means for workers in many industries?  Senator Chipp  on behalf of the Australian Democrats today asked a question on this matter in regard to Victorian railway workers as though they are some son of unique group specially penalised by this legislation. I feel very sorry for Victorian railway workers; but they are not some unique group. The only thing unique about them is that  Senator 
Chipp obviously thinks that in addition to the 2 per cent of environmentalists or others who support his Party he might add the Victorian railway workers as a new group to which in some degree of desperation his Party might appeal. 
The principle of his question relating to railway workers in Victoria goes much further than that. The new taxation provisions will have a much worse effect on relatively itinerant people in industries such as the construction industry where there is a tremendous turnover in employment, if indeed there is anything of the construction industry left after this Government has continued the economic management of this country for much longer. Anybody who knows anything about the construction industry knows that there is a very high turnover and change from job to job of skilled tradesmen and others engaged in that sort of industry. Of course this sort of taxation proposal drastically affects their annual leave entitlements and has a real effect in the long term on any long service leave entitlements which they might have as a result of some scheme which applies to the industry. 
The Government's rationale for this taxation at the rate of 33  Vi  per cent on annual leave payments and long service payments is simply that the Government considers that the current tax law encourages people not to take their leave when it is due but instead to accumulate it. That is why it is changing the taxation law. This shows that the Government is, with the greatest respect, quite spastic in its approach to the various functions of government. If the Government feels strongly about that principle the place for it to go is a place to which it goes very frequently, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and there argue that in Australian industrial awards there should be a prohibition on people deferring the taking of annual leave. That would be simply done and would probably be acceded to by Arbitration Commission because the rationale of all these leave provisions over many years, as argued in the Arbitration Commission, has been that workers should take leave when it falls due because it is a matter not only of money but also of health, appropriate recreation and so on. The Government rationale on this discriminatory little taxation impost which affects a poorer section of the community- the wage earners of Australia- is absurd and shows again that this Government in its taxation policy takes no account of its industrial policy. One hand does know what the other hand is doing. It grabs something with the right hand to justify some dirty blow with the left hand. That is precisely what it has done. It has used from the field of industrial relations an argument which is totally irrelevant to the proper management of the taxation system to justify this taxation measure. 
The real purpose of this measure is simply to gain extra revenue. The people who will suffer most, as I have said, will be those who swop jobs frequently such as people in the construction industry or itinerant industries of one kind or another. Some workers must by virtue of the very nature of their employment change jobs frequently. It should be remembered by this Government that most blue collar workers and most workers in industries like the construction industry do not have superannuation to fall back on when they retire. All they have is their accumulated long service and annual leave. That is the golden handshake a person gets if he is a builders labourer. He does not get a big dollop of superannuation to tide him over as do honourable senators or other people in the community who are on high incomes. AH these workers get is their accumulated annual and long service leave. All some employers say to their employees is: Off you go. Thanks for working for us for 40 years. You can go on the old age pension'. It is against these people that this measure is particularly directed. It is against these people that the effect of it is most particularly iniquitous. 
I mention another matter which is of concern to a much more limited group of people in Australia but is of concern to me as Opposition spokesman on education. I refer to the taxation of post-graduate awards. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech said: 
Commonwealth awards under the Post-graduate Awards Scheme, which are not means tested, are essentially of an income nature and it is appropriate that they should be taxed like other income. 
Accordingly, these awards are to be made assessable income in the hands of the recipient with effect from 1 November 1978 with an estimated gain to revenue of $0.6m in 1 978-79 and $ 1 m in a full year. 
Big deal! Big money; it might be said. The extraordinary thing is that one cannot object seriously about the Treasurer's justification for this action. Of course, post-graduate awards are not means tested. Of course, they may be seen to be income. But as a small sum is involved one would have thought that the Treasurer and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who sits in this place might have examined the whole question a little more closely. Many of the people concerned are doing very valuable work for this countryand for themselves as well as in pursuit of higher degrees- in research and other things. The point is that this Government saw fit in January of this year to raise the level of the allowances, which are very small for people to live on, to $4,200. The Government made great virtue of that at the time. The effect of the taxation of these allowances will be to decrease them to considerably less than the $4,200 to which they were raised in January, and to put them back very much where they were when the Government decided to make its decision in January of this year. 
I am not giving an estimate,  Senator. I  am outlining the effect to the Senate. This is something the Government should have looked into when it made these arrangements. Otherwise the action which the Government took in January was totally hypocritical. 
The next matter which I just want to touch on- again it illustrates the same point- is the abolition of the deductions for interest on home loans. Again it is discriminatory and again it is very much against the low income purchaser of a house. The move again comes from the Government which always has prided itself on being the party of home owners. The income of the average worker buying a house will be effectively reduced by some $3 a week. I refer also to the abolishing of tax rebates for overseas dependants. This is a matter of some concern to migrant communities in Australia. It is a matter about which I doubt migrants have been sufficiently alerted. The justification for this action is the Galbally report, the report on migrant services and programs, which was brought down in the Senate a month or two ago. Page 87 of the report, which deals with tax rebates, states: 
Many migrants claim tax rebates in respect or dependent spouses, parents, parents-in-law and invalid relatives living overseas. The majority of people for whom claims are made are said to be dependent parents and parents-in-law and are not Australian citizens. 
Those comments baldly state the problem. The report goes on to say that the cost of these rebates is something like $20m a year. In accordance with the words of the report, it was not felt that the rebates were justified. Let me make one or two points. It is very difficult for a single migrant- or even a married migrant- living in Australia if his relatives overseas with whom he has strong family and emotional ties are suffering as a result of poverty or distress of some kind or another. The ability to transmit money overseas to relatives of that kind is important to these people and important to anybody who is earning a good income and living in a country different from his country of origin. It is important that these people should be able to claim these tax benefits. 
I felt that the intention of the Galbally report was not that the tax rebate for overseas dependants should be abolished as the Government has done but rather to point to the fact that there have been abuses of the system by some members of migrant communities and to suggest ways in which these abuses could be overcome. The Government has abolished the whole system. This sort of action in my view will cause untold hardship to many migrant families with relatives and particularly close relatives living overseas. I mention the point again because it illustrates the same theme which I was trying to illustrate earlier in this speech- the importance of the rather discriminatory nature of many of these provisions which are included in this package of Bills. 
I mention one other matter. The Government has made one important concession in this package of legislation. It has made donations to the World Wildlife Fund tax deductible. It has taken tax deductibility away from Australian migrants. Contrary to promises, it has taken tax deductibility away from the Australian wage earner, from the Australian home buyer and from the Australian post-graduate students and has changed the taxation provisions for people receiving lump sum payment for annual leave and long service leave and has made donations to the World Wildlife Fund tax deductible. 
-Senator Walsh asks why the Government did that. I have a theory as to why the Government did it. I think it was because  Mr David  Ogilvy, the Madison Avenue advertising man who, I think, is  President  of the World Wildlife Fund-the Duke of Edinburgh may be  President  but  Mr Ogilvy  is high up in the hierachy- came here earlier this year and had lunch with the Prime Minister. He came to Australia on a ship which cost him about $5,000 a day. He had lunch with the Prime Minister and persuaded the Prime Minister that donations to the World Wildlife Fund should be made tax deductible. That is a theory as to why the donations have been made tax deductible, but there is no explanation in any of these documents as to why it was done. The Australian people are entitled to know why the World Wildlife Fund has been singled out for this special treatment instead of all sorts of other charities about which every honourable senator may be concerned and about which every Australian citizen might be properly concerned. I offer one explanation why the donations were made tax deductible. 
I have singled out these elements because I wanted to make general comments about them and about the nature of the measures. All governments have to take unpopular decisions. It would be very popular in politics to offer no taxation at all. Some people have done very well in countries such as Denmark by doing that. The Prime Minister of this country makes a positive virtue of his unpopularity and of his broken promises, in effect. He shares that sort of pride in unpopularity with the Emperor Caligula and people like Idi Amin who pride themselves on unpopularity of that kind and see their unpopularity as evidence of their being tough men, responsible men and things of that kind. If honourable senators examine the details of the legislation they will find that that is not so at all. 
In fact, these taxation measures taken as a whole represent a number of things which quite clearly can be pointed to. They represent the broken promises of this Government, promises made as late as 1977. In November 1977 we heard: 'Dial-a-tax-cut; find out what the Liberals will do for you'. What is happening now? There are broken promises, intellectually dishonest measures and desperate acts by a government which cannot match its rhetoric with its competence. The rhetoric is there- the rhetoric is always there- but the competence is not. But, more than that, the Government has shifted the burden of these taxation measures again- not to the wealthy people, but from the wealthy people of this community to the poor people of this community. I refer again to the table which I had incorporated in  Hansard  and which is very clear documentary evidence of this fact. Not only are they dishonest, not only are they broken promises and desperate acts, not only do they reveal the Prime Minister as a man who thinks he is being consistent and strong when in fact he is being just dishonest, but they shift the burden of taxation measures and they are grossly inequitable. On behalf of the Opposition, I oppose these taxation measures. 
I am not seeking to make a partisan point. All governments get into difficulties with this sort of thing but there may be some thought given in future to the priorities which we give to these matters. Perhaps it can be discussed at a later stage as a general principle rather than as a matter of detail. 
I would be grateful if the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  could tell me as a preliminary matter whether the tax deductibility for the World Wildlife Fund falls within the provisions of this Bill. 
-Is the Minister in a position to explain to the Senate why the World Wildlife Fund was singled out of all the charitable organisations which might have received this tax deductibility? If the Minister could provide that information for a start if would be of help to me. 
-On behalf of  Senator Grimes,  I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977; and 
That on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition; and 
That, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their stated objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely:- 
Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. 
Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 
Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis suffers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people. 
Therefore your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether his Department has taken any interest, by way of watching brief or otherwise, in the prosecution of two directors of Gollin Holdings Ltd, in respect of misappropriation of funds. If so, has the Department considered the evidence in which it was alleged that $25,000 of misappropriated funds was given to the Liberal Party of Australia? Has the Minister satisfied himself whether that allegation is correct? 
I wish to raise one or two matters on the same topic. The first relates to an answer that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  gave this morning in the Senate. As he is accustomed to doing, he dealt somewhat lightly with the truth in relation to the figures which have now been put before the Senate. I refer the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  particularly to the suggestion made by  Senator Carrick  that between 1972 and 1975 the amount for post graduate award allowances in fact was reduced. I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Is it not a fact that since 1960 the amount for post graduate awards in fact has eroded and that the value of the post graduate award in terms of a percentage of average weekly earnings had been drastically reduced by the present Government? 
I also noted with interest that  Senator Carrick  quoted the figures for the post graduate award holder who is married and has one child, but he omitted to quote the far more important figure for the single post graduate award holder, for which the discrepancy in the figures is considerably different. Will the Minister tell us also what was the total number of post graduate award holders in the last year of the Labor Government and what is the total number of post graduate award holders now in 1978? 
I rise to participate very briefly in the debate on this matter in order to point out to  Senator Walters  that there are different functions of government. The question of when people take their annual leave is a question of industrial relations. It is a question of the employer-employee relationship and it is a question of the health and welfare of workers in industry. That is a matter which is appropriately dealt with by the arbitration system. If I might tender a word of advice, the Government, which is now so concerned about this principle, should perhaps have considered going to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if it was so worried about this matter and pointing out to it what unions have pointed out consistently over many years- indeed over decadesand what the Commission has itself decided in terms of annual leave and when it should be taken. The Government should have considered pointing out that the purposes of annual leave are as I have said. But it is not in the view of the Opposition an appropriate function of government to interfere with industrial relations by virtue of its taxation policy. Of course what this taxation policy is clearly about is raising additional revenue from people who may for example if they want - 
-I am talking about annual leave. It has nothing to do with tax avoidance. 
If the honourable senator can point a finger at any worker on average weekly earnings who is involved in tax avoidance in relation to his annual leave, I would be delighted to hear about it. But the honourable senator did not do that. She should look at the justification given for this measure by the Government which she supports. She should read the Budget Speech. She should read the explanatory notes to this Bill. They say quite clearly that the Government is perturbed that people do not take their annual leave when they should take it. It thinks that is a bad thing for the worker concerned. That is what is said. 
That is an industrial matter. It is not a subject which is appropriately a matter for taxation policy. The problem which the Government gets itself into all the time is trying to solve these problems in this very ad hoc and flippant way. This is another example of such problems- there are a number in this package of legislation- which arises from the recent Budget. There is a very real difference between the justification of this measure and the actual reality of it. That is a matter about which the Opposition is concerned and about which  Senator Walters  seems to have no understanding whatsoever. 
-Would it be unfair to ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to tell the Senate at a later stage whether, for example, donations to the United Nations Children's Fund are tax deductible for the purposes of the Act and, if not, why the Government's priorities are directed towards wildlife rather than children. I do not want to make a sentimental issue of this but it does seem to be an important question of priority. I also ask whether it is not a fact that the patron of the World Wildlife Fund is the Duke of Edinburgh and the  chairman  is  Mr David  Ogilvy, the Madison Avenue advertising executive. Madison Avenue was his former address; he now lives in Paris. Is it a fact that  Mr Ogilvy  visited Australia earlier this year to lobby on behalf of the World Wildlife Fund and was that a factor in the Government coming to its decision on this matter? I agree with the Minister's observations about ad hockery- I hesitate to use that expression- and I wonder whether this was wild ad hockery as distinct from the normal ad hockery in which the Government engages. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the percentage of technical and further education students enrolled in each of the following academic streams: (a) professional) (b) para-professional; (c) trades; (d) other skilled; (e) preparatory; and ( f) adult education, in each year from 1974 to 1978. 
What was the percentage of full-time teaching staff, classified by salary and nature of duties for each academic stream in each of these years. 
What percentage of recurrent technical and further education expenditure was spent on each academic stream in each of these years. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education and refer to the Government 's policy in relation to compulsory membership of student organisations that has been enunciated in the Senate. Did the Prime Minister write to the State Premiers seeking implementation by the State governments of what one might describe as complementary legislation? What have been the nature of the responses, if any, to those letters written by the Prime Minister? Which institutions in which States are subject currently to legislation which the Government regards as being consistent with its policy on this issue? 
I rise to speak very briefly in this debate because I think that really most of the points that have to be made have been made by other senators who have contributed to the debate. I include the Minister for Education and Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Carrick),  who explained the factual situation as he saw it. This matter of public importance comes before the Senate very largely, I think, as a result of an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  today. That article is headed: 'Air veto on Jews: Qantas accepts veto order from Syrians'. They are very emotional headlines calculated, one would rightly suspect, to produce a very emotional response. No one in this chamber, one would hope, would like the notion of an air veto on Jews or on any other people of a particular religion or racial origin. Nobody in this Senate, one would hope, would like to take the view that Qantas Airways Ltd, Australia's so-called international airline, would accept a veto order imposed on it by any foreign government in relation to the types of passengers it carries. That, of course, is the point of this matter of public importance and the reason for the expression of concern by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. 
The unfortunate part of the article, about which there does appear to be a degree of confusion, is a statement which appears at the end of it. It reads: 
The Transport Minister,  Mr Nixon,  said last night any restriction on Jewish passengers was part of an arrangement under which Qantas operated its Damascus service. It was part of Qantas' normal commercial operations and the Federal Government had taken no part in the decision. 
With the greatest respect to the Minister for Transport, that looks like a fairly glib sort of copout of the whole argument. After all, Qantas, as a statutory corporation, is responsible to the Minister and it ought to be responsible to the Minister in respect of any decisions it makes which have implications in terms of human rights or international affairs. That seems to be the crunch in this situation. If the Minister is indicating the correct position in that statement, if Qantas in fact has regarded this as part of its normal commercial operations, then Qantas, as a responsible statutory corporation, has not seen the implications, in terms of human rights and international affairs, of the decision which it apparently has made. Let me add that it is not clear from this debate, or as much as I have heard of it, when in fact the decision was made by Qantas and how long this practice has been going on. 
Of course, as the Minister and others have pointed out, a number of factors have to be considered. As has been pointed out, these sorts of policies are applied by a number of countries and are given effect to by a number of airlines for which those countries are responsible. But the fact is that in this Senate and in this debate it is not our task- indeed, it is not our business- to tell other countries what they should do in respect of their own airline's policy. It is very easy to do so here, from the Senate, in relation to Middle East airlines, whether they be Arab Middle East airlines or Israeli airlines, but it is very difficult to determine what one would do if one were confronted with the sorts of situations with which those countries are continually confronted. We are not in that situation. Qantas is not in that situation at all, and we, as members of this Senate, and the Minister, as the Minister for Transport of this Parliament, are of course very much responsible for the actions of an airline like Qantas and very much responsible in terms of our position internationally and the way in which we discriminate, against not only our own citizens and residents of this country but also visitors to this country who may, for example, be of the Jewish faith or of Jewish ethnic origin. 
So, I share with others in the Senate the concern that has been expressed. I hope that the Minister will make a much more detailed statement about this matter so that it can be considered further by the Parliament in the light of further facts which ought to be available. I think it is the Minister's responsibility to see that that information is given to the Parliament as quickly as possible. I think we all deplore the notion of discrimination against any of our citizens, particularly on our international airline. For that reason, I strongly support the matter that has been raised by  Senator Chipp. 
-I ask the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the Government aware of the disastrous flood situation in Vietnam? What aid, if any, is currently being given to Vietnam by the Australian Government? Has the Government given consideration to providing some special relief to victims of the floods in Vietnam? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What has been the expenditure in the last three years in Australia on research in the following areas: (a) solar energy; (b) conservation; (c) human diseases in general; (d) industrial diseases in general; (e) industrial disease relating to asbestos mining; and (f) industrial disease relating to uranium mining and processing. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The statement just made by the Minister represents Government decisions which are in response to the detailed recommendations for expenditure made by the Tertiary Education Commission after- I stress 'after'- the Government had already set overall limits on expenditure. To that extent there is a certain sleightofhand in the statement which shows an admirable quality about it if one is an admirer of poker players, but a less admirable quality about it if one is concerned about the level of expenditure on education in this country. The point I would make is that the essential limitations have already been imposed prior to the Tertiary Education report upon which the Government has now pronounced in the statement just read by the Minister. If I may illustrate the point I would seek to make about that, in its report to the 1979-81 triennium, volume 2 at page 20, the Commission had this to say about the guidelines for the 1979-81 triennium, in summary form, in paragraph 2.2 (a): 
A reduction of S39m (1) for the university and advanced education sectors for 1979 (a reduction of $12 million in operating expenditure and $27 million in capital grants)- 
That is the Commission's summary of the guidelines in relation to this particular matter. Later on it says: 
In addition, the Government indicated: that, although the allocation for capital works in the university and advanced education sectors is significantly below the level recommended, the Commission might explore the possibility of commencing, some new capital projects in those sectors in 1979. 
Before dealing with that second point, on the figures approved for 1978 and recommended for 1 979, at page 23 the Commission says: 
The Commission is concerned at the consequences of this reduction, particularly as it affects recurrent expenditure. 
The gradual squeezing in recurrent expenditure funds is set out on page 23 of the Commission's report. That squeezing has taken place since 1975. Further in paragraph 2.5 on page 23, the Commission says: 
Over the period 1975 to 1979, recurrent grants have not quite kept pace with the increases in student numbers. 
Later on there is a reference to the increased cost not being covered by supplementation. In paragraph 2.6 of the report the Commission had this to say: 
In volume 1 the Commission recognised the financial pressures that institutions would face, but do not recommend additional funds to alleviate this situation. It did, however, recommend funds which would have imparted some flexibility to the university and advanced education sectors and enabled some developments to take place after the virtual freeze on new developments that had existed since 1 975. 
In a subsequent portion of that paragraph on page 24, the Commission says: 
In the Commission's view the cumulative effects of this continuing tightening of recurrent funds will not only erode the quality of the work in both the universities and colleges but will inhibit innovation and the capacity of institutions to adjust to changing community needs. 
That is a very important statement by the Tertiary Education Commission in view of the Minister's oft repeated concern in this chamber about the Government's addiction to the notion of quality in education which the Minister frequently tries to contrast with levels of expenditure. I repeat it: The Commission's view is that the cumulative effects will erode the quality of the work in both the universities and the colleges. As I said earlier, the statement now brought down by the Minister reflects earlier decisions made by the Government in preparing the guidelines for the Tertiary Education Commission. The comment made by the Tertiary Education Commission on the guidelines applies very strongly to the statement which the Minister made today and which only reflects the earlier indication of the Government's position. What the Commission is really asking for is more flexibility to make adjustments to cope with changing community needs. The Tertiary Education Commission is not asking for more and still more money, but it is asking for reasonableness to enable it to cope with that sort of changing situation. 
I will refer to that situation in a moment, but before doing so I just comment again on the very significant consequences of the reduction of $39m which is referred to as the main concern of the Tertiary Education Commission. What are some of the problems of flexibility with which bodies such as the TEC, and particularly the universities and the colleges of advanced education, have to be concerned at this time? They are concerned in general terms at being described as having been in a period of high growth which has now come to an end. There is no dispute about that, I would think. One of the factors which are important in terms of staff and quality of teaching and research is the increasingly high proportion of contract staff now teaching or working in universities and colleges of advanced education with little effort being made in terms of Government initiative or Tertiary Education Commission initiative in relation to the problem of the security which those staff on fixed term appointments now have. For example, one of the things which we feel should be examined very closely is the need for some form of external superannuation scheme for academic staff such as the federated superannuation scheme for British universities. That is the sort of thing which should be being examined in the light of the move to fixed term appointments. 
Secondly, it is of great concern that the situation of no growth in universities and colleges of advanced education which is talked about a great deal does not mean that there should not be growth in particular areas of academic endeavour. The same applies in that regard to both universities and CAEs both in terms of the needs of the country and of the society and in terms of the demands which are placed on universities and CAEs. The question of the areas in which growth should be allowed to occur again requires some degree of flexibility, which is what the Tertiary Education Commission by implication is asking for in the passage which I read from page 24 of its report. Not only the Tertiary Education Commission in the passage which I read but also the University Vice-Chancellors Committee have recommended already that there should be flexibility in this regard and have even gone so far as to suggest that it may not be necessary to wait for Professor Williams' report, like waiting for Godot, before decisions are made about many of these important matters. I might say that the mystique surrounding the Williams report is already assuming the enormous proportions which the Fox report assumed at the time of the Labor Government. It seems to me to be a notion bordering on the bizarre, having regard to the fact that in this country we claim to have a pluralist society, that all these decisions of importance, taking into account all the relevant factors, can be left to one report and that there can be a total postponement of decision-making until that report is brought down. 
-I agree that he has broad terms of reference. What I am querying is whether, in spite of the terms of reference, any human being is sufficiently broad of mind to deal with all the issues which are involved and which have to be considered. I suppose that I am making a general point about the notion of political responsibility for decision-making and the way in which politicians of both parties have tended to put those political responsibilities in the hands of judges or other 'experts' who will provide blueprints until the year 2000. That is the basis of the comment I make. It is unfortunate that in the Minister's statement on this matter and in the statement which he intends to bring down relating to study leave, there is a reference in each case to waiting for the findings of the Williams report to see what the ultimate consequences will be in the terms of the Government 's decisions. 
There is another point I would like to make about the statement which the Minister has just made. Even worse than not allowing the flexibility which the Tertiary Education Commission has asked for, the Government is introducing a great deal of confusion into the tertiary education area. I illustrate this by quoting a statement which was made by the Tertiary Education Commission in paragraph (e) on page 20 of its last report. The report states: 
. in addition the Government indicated: that, although the allocation for capital works in the university and advanced education sectors is significantly below the level recommended, the Commission might explore the possibility of commencing some new capital projects in those sectors in 1979; 
One might ask rhetorically what this tantalising statement means. It means, of course, that the Government is introducing quite significant and savage cuts in relation to capital expenditure. However, the Government will soften the blow by saying, 'Look, it may not be too bad because in 1979 there is a possibility that we will look at the whole thing again- the halcyon days are just around the corner'. This Government has continually told us that in relation to matters such as unemployment and we are again being told this in relation to capital expenditure in the tertiary education sector. The Government says, 'Do not worry about it; it looks bad now but in 1 979 we might be able to do something for you'. I ask: What on earth does that mean in terms of the notion of planning in the tertiary sector? The difficulties in which those sectors find themselves by not knowing what such statements mean again emerges from the Minister's statement. 
I make those brief comments to illustrate what the Minister's statement appears to be saying. In a sense, it is a redundant statement because real decisions were made at the time the guidelines were given to the Tertiary Education Commission. The Commission's response to the guidelines is reflected in the passages which I quoted from its report. The only thing which we are really left up in the air on is what that rather waffily statement of good intent means in relation to possible increases in capital expenditure in 1979. 1 seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I desire to make a brief statement about the contents of the statement just made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I have not had the advantage of reading the final report of the working party which the Minister brandished nervously as he got up to speak, but I take it that I will have the advantage of reading it at some stage in the future. To the extent that one is able to divine from the statements of Ministers what are the contents of reports, I am able to get some clues from what the Minister has said. I think that the Government has succeeded in making a great deal of fuss about this whole issue of academic study leave. When one considers the savings which are set out in the Minister's statement and which the Government envisages will be made as a result of the vast initiative which the Department of Education and the committee of inquiry seem to have taken in relation to study leave, one really wonders where all the economies are going to be effected. If a saving of $lm is to be made in the first year and $ 1.5m in each of the next two years it would be instructive to know what has been the cost of the inquiry into study leave for academics, both in terms of manhours spent by members of the Dunbar committee and. man-hours spent by the people responding to the inquiries of that committee. It would be very interesting indeed to see what we are finally left with, apart from the collection of rather waffling statements which apparently appear in the final report of the working party. 
There has been a lot of talk about academicstudy leave, but I suspect that what has been dealt with is not the issue of academic study leave but rather the Government's concern at every stage to instil in all institutions which have Commonwealth Government funding some token degree of good housekeeping, a concept which springs of course from the fertile mind of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to all these matters. If one looks at the annual budget of Australian universities of between $600m and $700m and at the energy which has gone into research on this one little aspect of academic life and government expenditure on tertiary education, et cetera, the result really is quite extraordinary. This report is just a symbolic gesture which is designed to display muscle and a desire for fat cutting but which really means nothing. The contrast between the rhetoric and the facts has been revealed in a number of statements by Ministers and, indeed, in answers by people such as the Prime Minister himself. For example, on 1 1 October this year in the House of Representatives the Prime Minister was asked a question about academic study leave and in the course of his answer he had this to say: 
I think it ought to be pointed out that there has been a real degree of generosity in some of the study leave arrangements made by some institutions around Australia. Study leave has not been restricted merely to those who need some relief from academic duties - 
That is an extraordinary concept of the function of academic study leave-  and studies during an academic year. It has been extended to administrators, and if study leave is necessary one year in seven for administrators in universities, why would it not be necessary for administrators in other walks of life? I think it has been quite right to examine these provisions which overall, having in mind the additional staff numbers required, cost about $40m a year. I know that the direct costs are very much less than that- the cost of fares and other things- but the fact that institutions have to carry a much larger number of staff to cater for the study leave provisions costs a total of about $40m a year. 
The Prime Minister then went on in this rather long answer to indicate a number of philosophically dubious attitudes about academic study leave. For example, he asked in a rhetorical way why academics in Australia could not take study leave at other universities in Australia. This is, I suppose, a good but at the same time a silly question if we consider the purposes of study leave in its traditional role in Australian universities. The sorts of comments made by the Prime Minister in his answer to the question are sharply in contrast with those made by the Government's own committee of inquiry into study leave. I refer the Senate to page 102 of the draft report on Study Leave where the committee of inquiry made a summation of its conclusions. 
It states, firstly, that the system of study leave has been an important factor in helping to overcome overall isolation from the major centres of research and learning and has enabled Australian scholars to establish a presence in the international community of scholarship out of proportion to Australia's small population. Another conclusion it reached is that, whilst isolated individuals have taken unfair advantage of the system, there was no evidence of widespread misuse. It stated, thirdly, that study leave schemes have brought many benefits to the institutions, to students and to the community. Those are the sorts of conclusions which the working party reached in discussing the whole matter of study leave. They are in very sharp contrast to the sorts of notions which have been bandied about by Government Ministers, particularly by the Prime Minister, in relation to this matter. 
The first general comment I would make about that is that the conclusions of the working party are quite different from many of the preconceptions and misconceptions of Government Ministers. Most particularly, those preconceptions and misconceptions are illustrated by the Prime Minister's hazardous guess at the cost of study leave in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. The Dunbar committee is quite clear about that. Its conclusions are at page 33 of its report, where it expresses the cost of study leave as being $ 15.8m, which represents 3.5 per cent of the general recurrent grants to Australian universities in that year. The assumptions underlying the misconceptions and preconceptions about study leave are that everybody takes study leave; that everybody is paid for it by the Government when he takes it, which is not true; and so on. All these misconceptions are about and they result ultimately, I think, in a great deal of huff and puff going on about the issue all of which, in summation, seems to signify nothing. 
If one looks at the statement by the Minister for Education today, one sees that it also contains all sorts of rather strange assumptions. For example, on page 1 concern is expressed that members of academic staffs should remain on campus and concentrate on their teaching responsibilities so that the burden does not fall on the students. We are all in favour of that. Nobody is in favour of burdens falling on students, particularly students in the schools sector. 

 - Senator Grimes said: Speak for yourself. I understand that the view he expressed is widespread in the community, but it is not widespread amongst graduates on the mainland of Australia. The fact of the matter is that there is no question of the burden falling on students, for the very simple reason that the way study leave operates in most institutions is that the slack is taken up by other staff at the institution. In the last paragraph of the first page of the Minister's statement he went on to state that the Government thinks that there should be a continuing opportunity for study leave for certain staff. 
Page 2 contains a summary of the effect of the Tertiary Education Commission's final report. I shall make some brief comments about points which are made on that. First of all, it is stated that study leave should be more selective. I do not think that anybody can disagree with that. I have yet to find a classic scholar to explain to me the vast advantages which accrue to a Latin teacher in an Australian university from going on sabbatical leave to undertake continuing studies in Latin in a European university, for example, although it might be possible - 
As  Senator Grimes  said, the same situation would apply to a Chinese university. The great advantages which flow from tertiary education can be seen in the quality of  Senator Grimes'  interjections. That is the case which can be made out for expenditure on universities.  Senator Grimes  has also had the advantages of various forms of study leave and, I understand, intends to take up this advantage again in a fortnight's time as a member of the Australian Parliament. So we would say that that proposition, which is the first one suggested as a conclusion in the Commission 's final recommendations, is quite a sensible one. 
The second conclusion suggests that the maximum amount of study leave should be seven percent of the available man-years for universities and five percent for colleges of advanced education. The same conclusion was reached in the draft report. It stated that study leave should be restricted to members of the academic staff. I think that we would generally agree with that, although it is possible that as a result of that less attention might be given to the art of education administration in this country than ought to be given to it. I make that point in passing. I do not think that we are highly successful in training education administrators, particularly university administrators. That might be a situation in which such a limitation would not be desirable. 
The important point in the Minister's statement is that, in general- whatever that meansindividual absences on study leave should be restricted to periods of not greater than six months. That, of course, is the nub of the whole issue. It represents an effective halving of the existing study provisions. The next point in the statement is that the present emphasis on overseas study leave should be reduced. I have the greatest criticism of that suggestion, which has come from the Dunbar committee and from members of the Government. I would have thought that, at this point of Australia's history, when everybody who is in his right mind- if I might put it that way- is properly concerned about the very rapid social and technological changes which are taking place in this country, the one great issue about which we ought to be concerned is to ensure that we are not isolating ourselves in any way from the international community in relation to those technological and social changes which are taking place in all countries of equivalent economic sophistication to this country. 
I think that it is a bizarre and retrogressive notion that there should be a removal of the emphasis on overseas study leave, as is the sort of suggestion that has fallen from the Prime Minister to the effect that Australian academics should take their study leave in other Australian universities. I really cannot understand the mindboggling refreshment which would flow to an Australian academic on his moving from Melbourne to Wollongong for a year in order to continue research or academic studies of one kind or another. 
Yes. I do not want to generalise about this issue. I am just trying to make a general point about the issue and to state that I really think it is very important that Australian scholars are very much in touch with the international community of scholars in relation to the sorts of matters which I have raised. 
-Yes, that is so. In the conclusion contained in the Commission's next recommendation a special serve is retained for the colleges of advanced education, that is, that study leave should not be used as a means of upgrading academic qualifications. Where the nub for the universities is in the penultimate conclusions, the nub for the CAEs is in that conclusion. The Commission concluded that there should be greater accountability on the part of individual staff members and institutions in relation to academic staff leave. Everybody is in favour of accountability at the moment; it is a very 'in' word. But the Dunbar committee really expressed a view that in most Australian universities a satisfactory method of accountability was available already. 
The point I would make about these sorts of conclusions which are drawn is simply this: One really feels that we did not have to go to all this trouble. There is only one crunch issue in it, that is, the halving of the period of academic staff leave. All the rest could have been accomplished by a nice letter being written to the vicechancellors asking them to look at these matters. We really did not have to go through this farcical inquiry and everything that has flowed from it, in view of the savings which ultimately will be made. 
In conclusion, I want to make two general comments. The universities and colleges of advanced education in Australia are continually being described as moving into a 'no growth' situation. That is the message that the Tertiary Education Commission and the Government have been giving. Indirectly, it also flows from things such as the Borrie report. I believe that that message finally is getting through. But there is a very important point about academic staff study leave in respect of which I think the Government is going in totally the wrong direction. Professor Karmel says, for example, that, with 12,000 university academics in Australia, there will be only some 60 vacancies for new academics each year in the next two decades or so. That is a quite horrifying situation for Australian universities because what they are going to suffer from is a sort of hardening of the cerebral arteries in relation to the quality, flexibility, and so on, of academic work. 
If we are not very careful, a whole generation of very bright young Australian academics will be denied academic jobs. At the Flinders University in South Australia, for example, more than 80 per cent of the staff are under 45 years of age. That means that no job opportunities for young academics are going to arise at Flinders University unless something very dramatic happens, such as the introduction of early retirement schemes for academics. 
Of course we should look at tenure. People are looking at tenure. The Commission has been looking at tenure for some time. That, of course, is one of the things that have to be looked at. It is a very real problem for the academics concerned- the young academics who will be unable to get jobs or the young academics who have fixed term appointments for three years which will never be renewed, because there is no proper method of teaching assessment, for example, in Australian universities or colleges of advanced education. It is not only of concern to those people; it is of ultimate concern to this country as a whole. As I say, we are losing a generation of bright young people because of the rigidity which is coming into the system. 
At this stage of history, to go on with this glib exercise in good housekeeping, as reflected in this Dunbar Committee report and the Government's response to it, is, I think, totally the wrong approach. There is one way in which we can encourage young academics into the university staff area, and that is by maintaining a system of flexibility, a system of interchange with overseas institutions, and by freeing up the whole system in terms of the possibilities of employment for younger people. I think that it is a very important point. The Government's attitude indicates the quite spastic approach which it adopts to all sorts of political questions in this country because it wants to smack somebody on the wrist. It says, in respect of academics, that there are too many fat cats and that their study leave should be cut. This is all done without any consideration of any of these other problems. I think that is vitally important and it is a very bad aspect of the Government's decision in this matter. 
Hopefully, some people are talking about the consequences of a post-industrial society and the sort of situation that will apply in a society like that in relation to the amount of leisure available to people and so on. The Prime Minister raised the question himself. He asked: Why should university administrators have study leave every seven years and other administrators not have it? That is a very good question. But the Government has made the wrong response. At this stage of Australia's history it should be asking why other administrators have not got it- and, by the way, I suspect that a lot of them have it. That is the important question which we will have to confront. Not why study leave should be taken away from university administrators. We should not be asking how we can reduce sabbatical or study leave for university people. We should be considering how we can introduce it for a much wider section of the Australian work force. That is the sort of context in which this report, the recommendations of the Dunbar Committee and the Government's response to those recommendations should be considered. I think this matter is a huff and puff exercise in which the Government has taken precisely the wrong approach to many of the issues because it is not forwardlooking. This is a retrogressive piece of flamboyant, good housekeeping symbolism. It does not really grasp at the very real issues which lie at the heart of this problem.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted. 
-I refer the Minister for Science to an article in today's  Australian Financial Review,  headed 'Webster Dresses up the Research Grants', in which the Minister is reported to have used the word 'clone' instead of the word 'cutting'. I ask the Minister: Is he cloning when he indulges in this sort of behaviour, or is he seriously trying to disguise from the public the nature of the research grants which have been awarded by the Government? 
It is sufficient in view of the progress that has currently been made. I just record the fact that I am interested in the Minister's statutory interpretation of the relationship between proposed new section  9AA  and proposed new section 9, but that is not a matter which I wish to debate tonight. 
-No. As I understood what you said, you referred to proposed new section  9AA  and the power of the CSIRO to do all things necessary in connection with the performance of its functions. You also referred to proposed new section 9 and said that it was not a function of the CSIRO to make a profit as a result of a partnership venture. With respect, I would doubt that interpretation, but it is not a matter that I wish to pursue. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
-The only matter I wish to raise with the Minister on this clause is the constitution of the Executive. As I understand it, this is a matter on which the legislation does depart from the recommendations of the Birch report in terms of the size of the Executive. I wondered whether the Government had any particular reason for adopting that approach as distinct from the approach in the Birch report, which is quite specific, as to who shall constitute the Executive. That is the first point. The second point I put to the Minister by way of a question: Is there currently, or has there been in the past, staff representation on the Executive and what has been the method in the past for appointment of the Chairman? Those may be questions which it is unfair to ask in the context of this debate, but I believe that the Minister probably will know the answers and it would be helpful to understand the situation in the light of the new proposals. 
-Some comment was made during the second reading debate about clause 6 of the Bill which deals with the functions of the organisation. I do not think there is much disagreement about those matters which, of course, comprise the important section in the first part of the Bill. I would like to raise with the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  a couple of matters in relation to proposed new section 9aa which, in a sense, is a new initiative. It provides quite properly that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation shall be able, as stated in paragraph (b), to join in the formation of a partnership or company for the purpose of the commercial development of a discovery, invention or improvement which is the property of the organisation. Two points arise. I take it that something becomes the property of the organisation when a patent is taken out. I wonder whether the Minister can explain to the Committee what the Government has in mind with that provision. It is a matter not of controversy but of interest as to whether the organisation does plan in relation to specific matters to take advantage of that section in the near future and what precise form that development will take. That is the first point I wanted to raise in relation to proposed new section 9aa. 
Proposed new section 9ab seeks to put into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the first time what one might term a middle management structure. As I indicated in the course of the second reading debate, the CSIRO seems to be relatively free from many of the problems which flow from middle management in statutory corporations. I am more particularly concerned to find out how the institutes will work, first of all, in terms of where they will be situated. I think that the Minister will understand that when legislation like this comes forward following the presentation of a report rumours and queries abound in the community particularly the scientific community. In this case, amongst the staff of the CSIRO. One quite strong rumour- whether it is true or not I do not know- is to the effect that the institutes would all be situated in Canberra. If the Minister could elaborate a little on how that provision relates to both the functions of the institutes and where they will be situated I think that it would be helpful to a number of people who are concerned about this legislation. 
My other question is: To what extent will the institutes as an administrative structure be autonomous in the sense of having their own staff and facilities, as distinct from the staff and facilities of the various divisions and of the Executive? In a structural sense, will there be built in revolving around the various institutes a division which will create a sort of larger administrative or bureaucratic staff responsible to the institutes themselves, as distinct from being responsible to the Executive or to particular divisions? I am sure that honourable senators would be helped if the Minister could elaborate a little on what is intended by proposed new sections 9aa and 9ab in relation to those matters. 
I am indebted to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  for his response, but may I explore the matter a little further. I ask the Minister: For what reasons has it been determined that the only purpose of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation entering into a partnership with a private concern would essentially be one of technological transfer and, once that was completed, the CSIRO would withdraw from that partnership? Might it not in fact be a great encouragement to a continuing application of scientific research if the CSIRO were in a position essentially to have an equity in an ongoing project? I am exploring this possibility because the Minister's explanation is somewhat different from the method which has been followed in relation to InterScan, as I understand it. I hope that the Minister does not see the proposed provision as one which will foreclose the possibility of the CSIRO being engaged in the development of a project on an equity basis and on a continuing basis. 
The other point I raised which I think the Minister did not deal with was the role of the institutes, the location of the institutes, the size of that proposed new element of the bureaucratic structure of the CSIRO; and how much it is intended that that should develop at a sort of middle management level? Those queries regarding the size and location of the institutes specifically relate to problems which have been put to me by members of the CSIRO staff. It is for that purpose that I raise the questions. 
-On behalf of  Senator Grimes  I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1 975 and again in December 1 977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into affect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely: 
* Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
* Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. 
* Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 
* Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis suffers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
It is wrong of  Senator Puplick  to chide the Government for not giving an annual science policy statement every year; the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in fact does that at Question Time every day. Having said that, that is the only objection that I have to the present Minister. I think he has been most diligent in the way in which he has discharged his obligations in relation to his portfolio and I am sure he will continue to be so. It is just at Question Time that those of us who are concerned with other matters besides science policy sometimes feel that it is getting all the attention it needs. I want to begin by congratulating the two previous speakers on the contributions which they have made to the debate so far. As  Senator Tate  indicated, it is not the Opposition's intention to oppose this legislation; in fact it commends the Government for the review arrangements which it has made. Science and technology again remain a static matter and, as two of the previous speakers have said, it has great significance for this country in the years ahead, probably more so than it has ever had in years gone by. 
The realities of the situation in Australia I think have been pointed to quite clearly by  Senator Tate  and  Senator Puplick.  The real gap or hiatus which seems to emerge is at the research and development level. It is most important I think that urgent steps are taken by the Government to try to do something about this situation. I really think that the defect lies very much with Australian manufacturing industry and indeed with other industries in Australia. We have a small market and a long history of highly protected  industries.  We have been a very derivative nation in terms of all sorts of matters, but particularly in our reliance on overseas technology. I do not think organisations such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or Australian universities can be blamed for that situation. I think there has been a very strong reluctance on behalf of Australian industry to take up at the development stage research which has been offered by bodies such as CSIRO and Australian universities. It is a difficult problem both financially and intellectually, in a fairly featherbedded society. It is something which I believe very strongly that we have to get over if the full value of CSIRO to countries such as this is to be realised and if we are to take the sorts of steps to which  Senator Puplick  referred in his closing remarks when he mentioned the significance of scientific research for Australia as a nation in the South East Asian region. I think it is a very important point that he made. Time and time again one hears stories about research projects which have been undertaken in Australia and in respect of which there has not been the imagination, initiative or genuine entrepreneurial skill to take the benefit of that research and apply it in Australia. Unless that happens, we are in for very real problems in a society which will depend very much on information based industries and high technology if it is to employ a significant number of its population in the 1980s and beyond. Therefore we should look at any measures which are designed to boost the application and the quality of Australian scientific research because it relates very much to the real problem of restructuring Australian industries. 
We, as a Parliament, have to face one very important fact. Five or 10 years ago it was assumed that in its development Australian society, as it had done traditionally, would follow the pattern that had been set by the United States. It was said, therefore, that if there were a decline in the Australian manufacturing sector it would be taken up by the service or tertiary sector of the economy, just as it had been in the United States. 
One can follow the pattern movement of employment from the secondary sector to the tertiary sector in the United States and Australians blithely assumed that the same would happen here. 
Unfortunately we are always 10 years behind the United States. That 10-year gap is immensely important because, in the last 10 years there has been such a rapid development of technology, particularly computer technology that the natural movement towards employment in the service sector that might have taken place is very likely to be aborted by the replacement of employees by technology. We have all become increasingly aware of that situation. It is one of the reasons why we believe that for some time the Government has been on the wrong track in its analysis of the employment situation. However, we hope we are fully aware that that situation has now changed. 
I make those few general observations because it is very important to discuss, in the broadest social and political context possible, anything that happens to CSIRO.  Senator Puplick  made a very important point in referring to recommendation 32 of the Birch report, in which the Advisory Council was enjoined to leave the Executive free, as it were, to take into account broad social considerations in determining scientific policy. 
-I appreciate that. I was coming to the point that anyway CSIRO has not enough money to do these things. As  Senator Peter  Baume in his interjection points out by implication, the requirement is probably much broader than that. 
-I took that to be the point that  Senator Puplick  made. I thought it was a very good one. There is, as he pointed out, a growing concern about the direction of scientific research. The difficulty of defeating the Luddites in the debate which takes place relates very much to the capacity of scientific researchers to explain in social terms what they are doing. Whilst we may have a very gentle debate at this stage of our history, I am sure that, if we are not careful, in five or ten years time it will be a very bitter one- not necessarily on party political lines- within the Australian community. It is an area of increasing concern. 
I agree with the interjection of  Senator Teague  that the social aspects have not been sufficiently emphasised in the legislation before us. That was the point that was made by  Senator Puplick  also. 
-It is not my task to give the Minister examples, and I cannot pluck one readily from the air; but the Birch report included terminology that is omitted from the Bill. I do not say that there was any mal-intent but a slightly different emphasis to the functions of the Advisory Council and the Executive might have been given if the point raised by  Senator Puplick  had been reflected therein. I do not think that one can do anything magical overnight with words. As  Senator Peter  Baume interjected a moment ago, probably a much wider approach to these problems than could be encompassed by this Bill alone is needed; but in trying to develop that breadth it might have been important had the Birch report recommendation to which  Senator Puplick  referred been incorporated in the Bill. 
I do not object at all, but since I rose I seem to have been dealing with questions and interjections. For an Opposition senator to be taking part in question time is a very refreshing experience. I fully appreciate the questions and the spirit in which they have been directed at me, and I appreciate the comments that have been made by way of interjection. I think all of the interjections and comments were right and I agree with them. . 
The first point that I was seeking to make was that the whole debate about the CSIRO and its functions in the Australian community must be seen in the light of the research and development aspects, and the capacity of Australian industryalong the lines referred to by  Senator Tate  in a quotation from  Sir Ian  McLennan of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd- to take advantage of the opportunities which an organisation such as CSIRO offers is immensely important. In the past industry has been a bit lazy, a bit chickenhearted, a bit self-indulgent about that. It has been very much set in its ways and dependent upon overseas technological development and inventiveness- generally reflecting the derivative nature of Australian society- when it should perhaps have been playing a much more significant entrepreneurial role than it has shown itself capable of playing to date. If we follow  Senator Puplick  's point, it is crucial that in future Australian industry have the capacity to play that sort of role in South East Asia. That is the general context in which I wish to put my remarks on this Bill. 
In talking about that problem, the basic and applied research of an organisation such as the CSIRO is essential to the process of development. I can only join other honourable senators who have generally commended the CSIRO for its outstanding record in this regard. All organisations of this kind are from time to time highly susceptible to public criticism on the grounds of accountability and contribution to the society and the Parliament, which gives them considerable financial support. It would be true to say that of all of the statutory corporations that this Parliament has established over many years there would be perhaps two, the Snowy Mountains Authority and the CSIRO, which would stand out as having a very distinguished record and attracting relatively minor criticism concerning public spiritedness, the importance of the work that they are doing, and the accountability to Australian society which they have shown. The CSIRO has a quite commendable record in this regard. But, as I said earlier, the CSIRO represents only half of the story. The other half concerns the follow-through into industry and the application of scientific research in the social interests of this country. 
I do not want to leave the impression- nor has any other speaker- that the Bill has my total approval, or the total approval of the Opposition. It contains defects, and there are defects in the administration of science policy by this Government, as there have been in its administration by previous governments. I say that to the Minister with the full knowledge of what I said earlier about his diligence in this area since he became Minister. 
The whole stress of the Birch report and, indeed, the second reading speech of the Minister was on extending CSIRO 's role in industry and in community welfare generally; that is to say the economic welfare of this society. There is a demand for more relevance to current problems. For example, clause 6 of the Bill, to which  Senator Puplick  referred, makes a new statement that the function of the Organisation is 'to encourage application' and so on in relation to the work of the CSIRO. Proposed new section 9 (a) (i) refers to the desirability of the Organisation assisting Australian industry. Proposed new section 9 (a) (ii) refers to the furthering of the interests of the Australian community. That is a most important reference, in the light of the comments which other speakers and I have made. 

 Mr President, I see you are now in the Chair. You appear like a will-o-the-wisp, if I may say so respectfully- I almost said 'like the phantom of the opera', but that would put us in the awful situation of being the opera. In my view, the Government has not given the CSIRO up to the present time the resources which it needs to carry out the functions which it is now envisaged it will have. Those functions are much wider than those the CSIRO had formerly. The CSIRO budget this year has been increased by only 6 per cent in cash terms; that is to say, there is no real growth in the budget. In a total staff of 6,000, staff numbers have been reduced by 50 this year. At the same time the Organisation is having greater demands put upon it. 
Of course, that is a common cry from all sectors of the Public Service and from a great variety of organisations. I think it is a cry which probably is more genuine and more heartfelt coming from the CSIRO than from many of those other bodies and organisations which are making the same sort of noise. As I say, the CSIRO is quite properly and deliberately being loaded with added responsibilities. Its budget for this year has been increased by approximately 6 per cent. In real terms, of course, that is a very slight increase, if it is an increase at all. That process has been compounded over a number of years. I am informed by CSIRO staff that it has been accommodated only by a degree of improvisation in the organisation, with people doubling in various positions, with scientists, for example, spending a considerable amount of time in building their own equipment, and things of that nature. A view which may not properly have been expressed about the CSIRO even two years ago I think is now properly expressed. To use the words of a former  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, its expenditure has now probably reached the point where it is cut to the bone, just as the Australian Broadcasting Commission has complained for a long time that its expenditure has been cut to the bone. I make that sort of comment in criticism only in the light of what I believe to be the very worthy intentions expressed in the Bill and expressed originally in the Birch report. 
The CSIRO is being encouraged to process more patents. The whole purpose of that is to boost technology for new industries, if indeed we are capable and able to find and develop new industries in this country. If we are able to do that, those industries will depend tremendously on a scientific, technological and information base. The CSIRO will be one of the major contributors to that process if, as I said, we are capable of carrying it out. The Budget allocation for patents and licensing for CSIRO this year is $150,000. Last year the Organisation spent $170,000 on that item. The Organisation is now well below the peak in the numbers of patents which it holds. The essential point I want to make in that regard is that the Organisation has, I believe, the capacity to develop new ideas. It must have the money to enable it to develop new ideas, and I believe that to be a very important matter. 
I wish now to refer very briefly to the 1977-78 report of the Australian Science and Technology Council which, in the jargon, I think is now known as Volume 1A. That shows a lot of hope of better things to come. One of the recommendations of that report states that the CSIRO should take a prominent part in the provision of information services within Australia. That specific recommendation is recommendation 34 which appears on page 13 of the ASTEC report and it reads: 
That CSIRO take a leading role in the provision of information services in science and technology; that the information services at present provided by CSIRO be expanded; and that a policy for charging the users of such services be developed. 
I do not know whether ASTEC in making that recommendation really was adverting by the use of that terminology to the provision of information services in relation to very fundamental changes which are probably taking place in this country as we move more and more towards an information-based society. Nonetheless, the bald wording of that recommendation is perhaps no clue to that. However, I think it is a very important recommendation. The consequences of that recommendation, if it were applied, are really very important and would probably be enormously expensive for an organisation like the CSIRO to implement properly. Of course, that is determined by priorities and the extent to which the Government is prepared to go. The dissemination of scientific information and technological information throughout the community will be a matter of crucial importance in the next decade or so. The extent to which any government is prepared to carry out a recommendation such as the one to which I have referred is a very important matter and one of which governments should be continually reminded if they accept the principle of such a recommendation. 
I note also that the Department of Productivity is working on a proposal to establish a national applied technology agency. I understand that that is being designed to be a loose group of bodies capable of aiding industry. I do not know whether  Senator Baume  was referring to that sort of proposal-a proposal to establish a national applied technology agency- when he interjected at an earlier stage that these matters went wider than the CSIRO.  Senator Tate,  I think it was, in an earlier contribution referred to the importance of the establishment of such an agency. In discussing the potential of an organisation like that, he cited the example of  InterScan  and the particular arrangements which had been made in relation to  InterScan.  I draw the Senate 's attention to the importance of that development in the Department of Productivity. Perhaps there is some urgent need for a rationalisation of the various pieces of legislation and the various bodies which exist if we are to achieve an overall thrust in the development of scientific policy and an understanding within the community in regard to the provision of information in achieving the thrust of that scientific policy. There is a need for great cohesion and a close relationship between the various developments which I think are quite properly taking place. 
One thing which is certain is that developments of this kind, whether they be the establishment of a national applied technology agency or the CSIRO having the capacity to continue its work at the present level of activity and beyond, will require more positions to be created in the CSIRO and will require a flexible application of the staff ceilings which are currently being applied by the Government. What I am concerned about is that there is a difference between the rhetoric of the Government in relation to science policy and the actual reality as at present being exhibited. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was endeavouring to make the point that the Government's rhetoric in relation to the CSIRO and scientific research generally in Australia is not matched by money. Having had the advantage of dinner I can perhaps adapt George Orwell's favourite aphorism to the situation. He once said: 
Though I speak with the tongue of men and of angels and have not money I am nothing. Now  abideth  these three: faith, hope and money; and the greatest of these is money. 
We all have faith and we all have hope - 

 - Keep the Aspidistra Flying- 
 Senator Baume. I must say that I am continually amazed by  Senator Baume  's erudition. It is one of the great delights in this chamber. The point I am seeking to make is that while we may have all these aspirations for the CSIRO and for research and development in Australia consequent upon scientific discovery, at times it has to be matched by the necessary muscle to enable it to take place. I think that is something to which the Government will have to give attention. Apart from changes in the functions of the CSIRO as described in various clauses of the Bill and which have been referred to, the main changes are to do with organisation. The CSIRO divisions and laboratories- I think there are 37- are to be grouped into six institutes which it is supposed will give better co-ordination of research. 
One of the great advantages of the CSIRO 's organisation structure in the past has been the easy communication between divisions in the Organisation. The divisions were small enough for the chief of a division to know what was going on within the division. This assisted with matters such as promotions, the funding of particular projects and so on. The CSIRO has never suffered from the sort of organisational malaise that the Australian Broadcasting Commission now suffers from, which is a sort of disease of middle management. One of the advantages of that has been a great deal of flexibility, or comparative flexibility, within the Organisation. Therefore the Opposition raises a query about the wisdom of this move and wonders whether it will simply impose another level between creative scientists and the top policy level of the Organisation. 
I know that many of the staff of the CSIRO are concerned about this problem. A senator speaking earlier in this debate mentioned an article in the  Australian Financial Review  which drew attention to this problem. I know from independent investigation that this matter has been queried. There is a fear that the aggregation into the institutes will hamper communication in the CSIRO by imposing another layer on top of divisions through which the business of the Organisation must pass. It may be that there is a great deal of wisdom in the proposal which the Government has put forward. Maybe it will work satisfactorily for the benefit of the organisation, and we certainly hope so. I am concerned to raise this query, which has already been alluded to, because I think it is important that we recognise that by and large, as I said earlier, the CSIRO seems to have been free from bureaucratisation in the past and we are very concerned that it should remain so in the future. 
The question of the aggregation into divisions also brings up the problem of direction in a creative organisation. Professor Birch, in the report on the inquiry into the CSIRO wisely rejected any suggestion of detailed control of the Organisation by government departments despite the superficial attractiveness of making scientific research an arm and aid of national policy objectives. I think we all agree in another way that it should be an aid and an arm to national policy objectives but the sort of administrative structures to achieve that should not be in any sense departmental interference in the internal affairs of an organisation such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. This involves a question of finding another method of arriving at the right form of organisation to enable a sense of direction to develop, a sense of social and political direction, in relation to Australian science policy yet at the same time retaining the very important factor of independence for the Organisation, a level of independence it has enjoyed in the past and which I think it is necessary for it to enjoy in the future. 
There is no doubt that there should be some direction at the high level of an organisation such as this, and the executive of a body such as this must be responsive to national needs and must make decisions on research projects with those national needs in mind. But the scope of creativity and motivation has to be maintained at the working level. The important factor is to make sure that those aspirations, those national needs which have to be dealt with at the top level, do not in any way frustrate creativity and motivation throughout the scientific research level of the organisation. The CSIRO has a very high level of trained professional people who are largely directed by the ethics of their profession and I believe that they are justifiably proud of the work in which they are engaged. We would have thought that that was a good argument for staff representation on the Executive of the CSIRO. A Minister in the previous Labor Government,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in 1975 made provision for nominations for election of a staff representative or representatives on the Executive of the CSIRO. But that decision was cancelled on 31 December 1975. It is of course the consistent view of this Government that staff representatives should not be elected to the bodies of organisations such as this- either to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, for example, or the CSIRO. It is very important in a body which has a creative function that the staff feel motivated and part of that organisation even at the top level, part of the self-management structure of that organisation. 
Of course, it will be said by Government spokesmen that there is provision in Part IX of the Bill for the establishment of a Consultative Council. The relevant clause is rather vague but the Council presumably is designed to bring in that element of consultation between management and staff, between executive and employee, which will cater for that sense of motivation and the need to feel part of an organisation at all levels, the need to feel that one is taking part in the creative decision making processes about the sort of work which is done. The Consultative Council arrangement which this legislation provides for the CSIRO will provide, I think it is true to say, the first test of the Government's view about these sorts of bodies. I see a real danger that it will be regarded as a talking shop by the Executive or alternatively a paper tiger of some kind, and that the decisions of the Consultative Council, its deliberations and so on, will not be taken seriously either by management at the top level or by staff in trying to fulfil the sort of aspirations I mentioned a minute or two ago. 
I would not care to say that it was the same model. If the honourable senator can persuade me that it is, I will be convinced, but I do not have sufficient information as to whether it is the same model. Of course, there are many critics on both sides of the fence of the industrial democracy propositions in South Australia. The comment I am making is just one of doubt as to whether that sort of structure will work in a body such as the CSIRO. I am not so addicted to the election of staff representatives to the executive of an organisation that I stand by it as a point of fundamental principle on which I would be prepared to go to the wall, but I think it is a principle which would appeal to the staff of the CSIRO. It is important that the device which has been substituted for that principle of staff election to the Executive should work, otherwise the situation ought to be reviewed. I think it is most important that in an organisation such as this Organisation those sorts of matters are properly dealt with and properly catered for by the legislation. 
I note in proposed new section 56 of the Bill how the Consultative Council of staff and management is to be appointed. That matter is to be left to regulations. If the Government was concerned about the Consultative Council being one of principle I should have thought that it would have been prepared to write it into the legislation and not leave it as a matter of subordinate legislation. One criticism which I generally have about this whole Bill is that there are a number of matters which might properly have been included in the Bill and which have been left to be dealt with either by regulation or by ministerial decision. This is another example. The Consultative Council is there. One is unable to tell from the nature of this legislation whether it is merely a symbolic gesture, whether it is something real that the Government is concerned about or whether it is something real that the CSIRO is concerned about. It has to be if it is to carry out the intentions to which I have referred and which are important in a body of this kind. 
I note also that the functions of the Council are to consider and report to the Executive on any matter affecting or of general interest to the officers of the Organisation, including any such matter that is referred to the Council by the Executive. With respect, that is a pretty wishywashy sort of proposal. It makes it quite clear right from the beginning that these two bodies will deliberate separately. The Executive might, if it wishes, refer something to the Consultative Council if it thinks it is the Consultative Council 's business. The Consultative Council on the other hand may refer matters to the Executive or report to the Executive. That again, 1 would have thought, is an unfortunate terminology for inclusion in a clause relating to a body which is basically having a sort of industrial relations function as well as having a function in the truly professional sense in relation to the work done in the CSIRO. 
I refer next to the fact that the Advisory Council is to be an independent body. That is a very laudable objective. I qualify the expression laudable' only by the fact that the Bill specifically forbids a member of the Executive or the staff being  chairman  of the Advisory Committee or a State committee. At the moment the staff of the CSIRO is represented on advisory committees. I do not see the reason for the prohibition of staff from the advisory committees which, after all, are going to be very important bodies if the intentions of this legislation are to be carried out. What one fears about the removal of staff representatives from the advisory bodies and what one fears about the wishy-washy nature of the provision relating to the Consultative Council is that the Government's intentions are merely to have a sort of show pony which will do virtually nothing and that the legislation as it stands is merely a reflection of Government phobia about staff representation. We are concerned that it should provide contact with the staff; it should be a genuine effort. Either the Consultative Council or the Advisory Council should have full and steady contact with the staff on a permanent and regular basis in preference to the provision which is included here. Perhaps the Minister has some plan which will make this work and perhaps he will unveil it later, but it certainly is not revealed by the terminology of the legislation itself. I note also that in the past it has been the custom to appoint two members of this Parliament to the Advisory Council of the CSIRO. Whilst that has never been written into the legislation, I hope that the Minister will give an assurance that that practice will continue, particularly having regard to the comments which have been made and which the Minister himself has made about the advisability of having a parliamentary science group and of holding more discussions on scientific matters in this Parliament. 
Another problem in relation to the CSIRO which was raised by the Birch Committee is the age structure of the Organisation's staff. That is referred to at page 99 of the report. Starting at page 98 of the report under the heading 'Tenures of Directors and Chiefs', the Birch Committee dealt with the flexibility of staff and so on. At the bottom of that page it dealt with the question of research staff imbalance. That matter is also dealt with at page 10 1 and other pages of the report. The report was concerned with the question of mobility within the CSIRO. It is perhaps not appropriate to consideration of this Bill, but the Government should be considering early retirement schemes for organisations of this kind. That is a matter about which we had some discussion in the Senate only a few days ago in relation to universities. The CSIRO is a body which suffers from the same aging process of the research population and there is a need for consideration of early retirement provisions with appropriate terms. 
Another matter which I would like to draw to the attention of the Government is the need for the CSIRO actively to seek exchanges with universities. For example, the summer student arrangements whereby university students spent much of their time in CSIRO laboratories has ceased. Also, the incidence of CSIRO staff teaching in universities has declined. This means that economies are being made among younger people, such as students and young staff of the CSIRO. The economies should really be made amongst the older members of the staff, perhaps amongst the administrative members of the staff who ought to be the beneficiaries of early retirement schemes. That matter is dealt with in recommendations 93 to 95 on pages 191 to 195 of the Birch report. 
There is one other matter to which I wish to refer. It was adverted to by  Senator Peter  Baume earlier by way of interjection. I refer to the fact that the Bill covers only part of what ought to be a science and technology policy. The Government will be considering the report of the Australian Science and Technology Council. This report deals, amongst other things, with the question of the follow-through of the product of scientific research in industry. The important recommendation of the Australian Science and Technology Council is, of course, the recommendation for the setting up of a research and development corporation, which is dealt with in some detail in that report. One would hope that such a corporation would be financed by government in partnership with industry. One would hope that some of the captains of industry who have talked so much about the need for such an organisation and about the need for applied research or the application of research to Australian industry would be prepared to support both financially and verbally the establishment of such a body. I believe that this is essential for the development of new industries. It is a matter to which all speakers in this debate have drawn attention. 
The Government found itself in quite a strange way, one suspects, with the InterScan development whereby it was forced into adopting an appropriate structure to take account of a piece of research which already had been brought to fruition. I am not criticising the Government for that at all. There are quite clear reasons why a more sophisticated long-term structure should be developed in an applied way for research conducted by Australian scientists in CSIRO and elsewhere in Australian industry. I think we all agree about that most important point. It is a matter on which we hope the Government will see fit to act as soon as possible. With the qualifications I have made, I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-My attention has been drawn to the fact that clause 7 of the Bill with which we are now dealing takes in the remaining proposed new sections. The Minister has been asked one or two questions about matters in which I am interested. I also want to raise a couple of matters relating to the Advisory Council. As I understand it, the Birch report recommended that the  Chairman  of the Advisory Council be elected. I am not sure by whom. It would be interesting to know what was the basis of the departure from that decision, if there was a departure. I raised a point in the second reading debate in regard to proposed new section 56, which deals with the establishment of the Consultative Council. I take it that the Government is putting a tenative toe in the water in an area in which it has shown singular inexpertise if I may say so without being less than charitable. Was the Association of Officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation consulted about this mechanism prior to the drawing up of this legislation. What was the view of the Association regarding this mechanism? Secondly, it is far from clear on the basis of the rather tepid prose in this clause how the provision will work. For example, it provides that the Consultative Council may report to the Executive- that sounds extraordinarily military to me- and that the Executive may refer matters to the Council. I would be interested to hear any wisdom which might fall from the Minister's lips on those two points in relation to the Consultative Council. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
What land, buildings and /or houses has the Department purchased in the States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia on behalf of, or designated for the use of, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the years 1975, 1976 and 1977. 
Who were the original owners of any such land, buildings or houses. 
3 ) What was the purchase price of each property. 
Has the Department purchased land, buildings or houses in or near the towns of Dubbo, Wellington, Tamworth, Lismore or Moree during 1975, 1976 or 1977; if so: (a) for what purposes were these purchases made on behalf of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; and (b) who were the original owners of the property or properties. 
5 ) For what purposes were each of the lands, buildings or houses referred to in ( I ) purchased by the Department of Administrative Services on behalf of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in 1975, 1976or 1977. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources, and I refer to the new export control policy for minerals announced yesterday by the Minister for Trade and Resources. I ask: Were there any particular contracts negotiated recently or other special circumstances which led to the Government's change of policy? Alternatively, has the new policy been dictated as a result of consideration of the balance of payments? 
-The Senate is debating a matter of public importance, namely: 
The disruption caused to the national broadcasting service by the Government's attacks on staffing and standards within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
In some ways this debate has the flavour of a great ABC radio program called  Blue Hills.  I think that in some sense we have been through it all before. Today the debate was characterised by an interesting contribution from the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who told us that this matter of public importance which has been raised by the Opposition had his total approval. I really estimated that it would be six months before my friend and colleague,  Senator Chaney,  as a Minister made a statement as pompous as that. In fact, it has taken only six weeks. I find that incredible and I am very glad that it will be recorded in  Hansard.  The Minister in the course of his speech invited me to make some odious comparisons between the various persons who are commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He invited me to say whether I thought that Marius Webb was a better or worse commissioner of the ABC than are some of the newly appointed commissioners, such as John Landy and David Williamson. Who was the third one? 
-Yes, Herb Elliott, not John Landy 
-Yes, the third appointee was Ken Tribe. I do not propose to make any comparisons of that kind. I recall Marius Webb as a very likable man, a man of great creative capacity and of unique character. He would be very good to have on a body such as the ABC. I think he would be very good also to have in the Senate. He is not associated with either of those bodies any more. I think that that is probably Australia's loss. I do not have any objections to the new commissioners whom the Government has appointed. I think that the Minister had intentions of appointing some others, but he was overruled by Cabinet. However, that is an unfortunate by-way of history. 
The disruption which is the subject of this matter of public importance is a matter of growing public concern in Australia, a matter of growing public dissatisfaction. Indeed, the standard of the Australian Broadcasting Commission programs is a matter of disappointment to the public. I used the word 'disappointment' very advisedly because traditionally the ABC has been held in high regard by the Australian public, or at least by a significant section of it. It has provided a service of which Australians generally have been proud. I will refer to the nature of some of those services in a minute. Of course, it still provides programs, particularly radio programs, of which many Australians are justifiably proud. I suspect, in a very subjective way, that there has been a perceived decline in the quality of a number of ABC programs. Perhaps my concern reflects generational considerations. As I grow older I miss programs such as  Bellbird.  I miss Terry Lane and others who have disappeared from the ABC scene. I miss  State of the Nation  and I miss  This Day Tonight  as a high quality current affairs program, which it no longer is, with respect to those who are associated with its production. 
There is a declining standard in ABC children's television programs. I say that vicariously because I am told about that by others. I do not watch children's television programs, however much  Senator Martin  was tempted to say by way of interjection that I should. I am concerned also about an apparent decline in the standard of some so-called educational programs which the ABC presents. I have a gut feeling about it all and I think many Australians have a gut feeling about it all. Certainly, that is so if my mail is a reflection of what many people in the community think about the ABC now as distinct from a few years ago. Of course, there are still many programs of which we can justifiably be proud, as I said earlier. They are in particular radio programs, programs such as the  Science Show, AM, PM,  some of the rural programs and programs such as  Broadband,  which  Senator Chaney  mentioned. It might be described as a thinking man's program and, because of that description, the program is offensive to the Government. 
The decline in the standard of many of the programs to which I have referred has resulted from cuts in funding and the attitude of this Government towards the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which were described by  Senator Ryan.  In the past three years the Budget allocations for the Australian Broadcasting Commission have been $1 19m in 1976-77, $128m in 1977-78 and $136m plus supplementary appropriations for the current Budget period. The figure of $ 119m that I first mentioned was the figure that  Sir Henry  Bland, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for a period of about six months before he resignednot a person who endeared himself to me in that role, or I suspect to anybody else- described in 1 976-77 as having cut the ABC to the bone. Subsequent allocations to the Australian Broadcasting Commission have not reflected any effect of the words of the then  Chairman  on the current Government. The cuts represent a 23 per cent cut in real terms over that period, and there has been no change in the cut-to-the-bone policy in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 

 Senator Ryan referred to the substantial reductions in staff that have taken place and things of that kind. Of course,  Senator Chaney  has said that there is no reason why the ABC should not be disciplined in the same way as everybody else in this community- a stern prefect attitude stemming from Nareen, no doubt. He has said that there is no reason why the Australian Broadcasting Commission should not be disciplined in the same way as every other body, and, of course, it is the Government's right to have priorities in regard to these matters. But the same Government, which says that the ABC ought to be disciplined, is talking about putting a satellite in the sky at a cost of several hundred million dollars, probably, and is giving the people of Australia very little understanding of the social implications of putting that satellite in the sky. If one wants to know, one could perhaps begin by asking  Mr Doug  Anthony, who has suddenly become concerned about the satellite because of pressure from rural television stations. The Government, which says that the ABC should be disciplined, is still talking about erecting a university at a cost of some $ 100m for 1,400 military personnel. Apparently that is a priority of this Government, and it talks about disciplining the ABC! Discipline should have universal application if it is to be applied. It should not be a matter of priorities of the kind that I have just indicated. 
Some of the difficulties in which the ABC finds itself are very well illustrated by its last report, a commendable black and white document with colour in the middle, which sets out in some detail both the role of the Commission and the difficulties it is encountering. I draw honourable senator's attention to the wide provision of ABC services referred to on page 4 and the comment that the cost of the ABC averages less than 4c a day per Australian, which is a net figure. The report then lists all the services that the Australian Broadcasting Commission not only provides but is expected to provide. It is expected to provide for the government of this country an overseas news service in the form of Radio Australia. It is expected to provide symphony orchestras for the population of this country in the major cities. It is expected to provide regular AM and FM broadcasting services. It is expected to provide quality programs, educational programs and written publications. These things are all set out on page 4 of the Commission's report. That is a hell of a lot that the Australian community expects from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and it is very little that the Australian community pays, 4c a day, for all those services. 
I wish to draw the Senate's attention to one or two comments in the report about the difficulties of staffing and so on encountered by the Commission. At page 6 of its report, referring to the question of staff wastage in the ABC, it points to the difficulty of the same sort of disciplines being applied to the ABC as are applied to a body such as the Australian National Railways, to which  Senator Chaney  referred. The report states: 
Redeployment and retraining of staff are possible, but to a limited extent only. As the General Manager has stated: 'In the short term, and even in the long term, when you are concerned with groups of highly specialised people, redeployment is of limited application. You cannot redeploy a journalist to the technical area, for example; or a cameraman to a vacant position in the first violins of one of the symphony orchestras and, what's more, you cannot overcome the problem by retraining! ' 
That is an important comment because it draws attention to the different types of creative services that the Australian Broadcasting Commission provides to the Australian people as distinct from the sorts of services that the Railways provides, for example. Secondly, at page 19 of the report there is an interesting comment which I do not intend to quote but which refers at some length to the difficulty that the ABC has in relation to capital appropriations and their effect on ABC buildings. 
In the Estimates committee hearings to which  Senator Ryan  alluded reference was made by  Mr White  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to the reduction of Australian content in our television programs. At the same time as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is' saying, with the approval of this Government- the explicit approval of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)-  that Australian television should have an Australian look, the only organisation in this country that has ever attempted to provide an Australian look in its television programs, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, has to reduce its Australian content. Some 58 per cent of ABC programs on television were of Australian content in the last year, the subject of this report. There is no commercial television channel in this country which could boast a figure anything like that. The Government talks glibly about the need for an Australian look on television but the one organisation that provides it cannot do so any longer, according to some of its senior officers. Similarly, comments were made about the decline in quality, as  Mr Mackriell  put it; the decline in what he termed the richness of radio programs for Australian children. In addition, we are promised no extension to Western Australia of the FM service of the ABC, quite contrary to the promises that were being made at the time of the last election. 
I want to deal briefly with the point taken up by  Senator Ryan  about the composition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the question of a staff-elected commissioner. I am not stuck with the notion of a staff-elected commissioner being vitally important, but when the Minister appeared on television with  Senator Ryan  a few weeks ago to discuss this issue he dismissed the whole question glibly. He said: 'There are already trade union representatives on the Australian Broadcasting Commission.' Representatives of what? What he meant was that there are token trade unionists on the Commission. They are not representative of anybody. The only people who could be on the Australian Broadcasting Commission who are representative of anybody who has anything to do with the ABC would be people concerned with the unions in the ABC. The Minister then went on to say: 'It is not my business to interfere with the staffelected commissioner. That is a matter for the Commission itself.' With respect, that is not so. The Minister did not hesitate about interfering when it wanted to put station 3ZZ off the air in Melbourne. But when it comes to the question of a staff-elected commissioner, the Minister has a totally different approach. 
What is really happening is that when it suits the Government it takes a supine and waffley attitude to these questions. When it does not suit the Government to do that it adopts a different attitude altogether. For example, when it talks about a consultative council for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to deal with staff matters, it is not talking about the same thing as it proposes for the ABC. I really think that the Government has to get to a position of bipartisan appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as has been Labor Party policy for some time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Collard)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-The statement which was just made by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  is important for a number of people in this country who are either recipients or potential recipients of legal aid. It has been made against a background of public concern about hardship, delays and the growing work load of the Australian Legal Aid Office in those places where that body exists. That public concern has been reflected by the questions which have been asked in the Senate on a number of occasions by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. Those questions have been asked in response to public pressure about the matter. It is interesting to note that in making this statement the Minister carefully avoided any commitment in respect of an increase in the Australian Legal Aid Office's vote. The document is what one might describe as a package deal whereby there is a giving with one hand of a small increase in relation to the minimum disposable income and a taking away with the other of what I would regard as important legal rights. It is in respect of the last matter that I want particularly to make some comment. 
The Minister has brought down this statement purportedly as a response to the hardship being experienced. At the commencement of his speech he specifically referred to the fact that many people who would have been eligible for legal aid in 1976 are not now eligible and that legal aid is being refused to persons in real need. That is so. It is a matter of fact. It is a matter of concern to a variety of honourable senators other than the Minister. 
I repeat what has been said by way of interjection, that is, that it is of concern to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. Whilst I am fully aware of the Government's responsibility to fix the overall parameters of any government service in economic terms, there is a real Scrooge element about this statement. I will explain briefly why I take that view. The Minister dealt, firstly, with the question of eligibility for aid in dissolution of marriage cases. He said that the sum of $2m is being spent each year on dissolution of marriage cases referred by the Australian Legal Aid Office to private solicitors. He went on to say that the need for aid in this area is not as urgent as it is in other family law proceedings, such as custody, access, maintenance and property settlement. That is a conclusion with which one could not help but agree. The fact of the matter is that the priorities in relation to aid in the family law jurisdiction are quite clearly spelt out in the Minister's statement. As I have said, one cannot disagree with those priorities. 
In dealing with the question of legal aid for dissolution of marriage proceedings in the Family Law Court, the Minister went on to say that legal aid will not be granted unless circumstances exist which, in the opinion of the Australian Legal Aid Office, render it imperative that the marriage be dissolved. I say, with the greatest respect, that that is an extraordinary statement. It almost creates an additional ground for divorce in Australia- the opinion of the Australian Legal Aid Office that an applicant really needs a divorce if he happens to be poor. It substitutes the discretion of a litigant on this matter, which is most vital in the life of every citizen involved in proceedings of this kind. It substitutes the opinion, the discretion, the wishes and the desires of the potential litigant seeking a divorce, if he happens to be poor.  His  view on that matter is taken over by a bureaucrat in the Australian Legal Aid Office. That is to say, it now becomes a question for the Australian Legal Aid Office to determine whether that person really needs a divorce or only thinks he does. With the greatest respect to the Minister's attempt to juggle the books in relation to legal aid, that is an extraordinary statement to make, lt means that one needs to have the approval of the Australian Legal Aid Office to obtain a divorce as well as needing to establish a situation of special hardship. I regard that as an extraordinarily reprehensible statement to be made by a Minister. It shows that the concept of the Legal Aid Office as it was first envisaged has not even got through to the Attorney-General of this Government when that sort of statement appears in an important announcement of this kind. 
I shall go through the Minister's statement seriatim. In referring to the next paragraph of it I simply make the point that although the divorce procedure is now very simple and people can get assistance from the Family Law Court staff, no commitment has been made about increasing the size of the Family Law Court staff in relation to these matters. 
-Or the ALAO staff. That, of course, is dealt with in the final sentence on page 2 of the prepared statement. Again that matter is in an area of great concern to citizens who are involved in family law proceedings. The whole question of equality before the law, of equal opportunity in relation to this most important matter in the life of a person, is not dealt with or adverted to by the Minister in this statement. 
A new provision is to be introduced in relation to contributions by clients of the Australian Legal Aid Office. The new exclusion provides that all assisted persons should contribute except where it can be demonstrated that the payment of a contribution would impose a real financial hardship. That means that somebody who is seeking legal aid and who is probably in a fairly desperate sort of situation- somebody who is already subject to guidelines about eligibility for legal aid- will have to go to some faceless bureaucrat and demonstrate to him that he, the potential litigant, belongs to a particular category of persons. As a result of this proposal one human being is being asked to go to another and say: 'I am a particularly poor person. I am here to demonstrate to you that I am poorer than anybody else. I am poorer than pensioners and others who get the legal aid service. I am in a desperate situation and therefore I should not have to pay this particular amount'. I think that in social terms that is a very bad sort of criterion for the Australian Legal Aid Office to apply and a very bad sort of criterion to appear in a Minister's statement. 
Reference was then made to the current court fee of $ 100. Again, the same point applies. In this case, the potential litigant- the person seeking the divorce- has to go to the Registrar and put himself in the position of saying: 'I am a person who would suffer particularly substantial hardship in my divorce proceedings if I had to pay this fee'. Again, I think that is a reprehensible sort of social criterion to Ke put in a statement of this kind. It all arises from the desire to balance the books financially. The offsetting figure is the whole set of social judgments which the Attorney-General apparently has made on these matters. I think the judgments which have been made and which are set out in the statement are very expensive social judgments. 
Part of the statement refers to payments to private practitioners. As a former lawyer- I say former lawyer' hoping that 1 will not have to go back to the occupation- I find a number of comments quite extraordinary. I refer particularly to the Minister's pronouncement that these matters have been discussed with the law societies of Australia. Later parts of the statement say all sorts of things about the legal profession in this country which I would have thought would have sent a chill down the spines of the members of the law societies in the various States. I congratulate the Minister for making the statement. He has outlined something that 1 suspected for a long time. A lot of the work done by solicitors and a lot of the attendances which solicitors make and for which they charge private clients are, in the judgment of the Government of Australia, redundant services and should be abolished. The Government says that it will not pay for these services any more. I think the Minister is to be commended on what I would regard as the first socially important statement which has been made in the course of this whole debate. 
But your interjection will. That interjection shows how adept  Senator Missen  has become after four years in the Senate. It was very clever. A nice judgment is made here which relates in the broad to the whole question of delivery of legal services at a proper charge. I think that the document is interesting to that extent. The Commonwealth from now on will be in a different position in relation to services rendered by solicitors from other bodies and from other people in the community. This is all summed up in the delightful phrase which occurs in quotation marks that in legal aid matters solicitors are to 'take the rough with the smooth'. We can only assume that in the ordinary course of private practice solicitors just get the smooth. I think that that is an important observation. 
The statement also makes an observation about what is within the competence of solicitors should it be necessary for them to brief counsel on certain matters. It states that it is not necessary for solicitors to attend court in certain matters. As a result of those comments a proud statement appears about the savings which will result from these changes. The savings will enable the permissible disposable weekly income for qualifications for legal aid to be significantly increased. The increase is S12. That represents- this is a matter of analysis- a restoration of the permissible disposable income to the figure it was in real terms in 1975. If one takes regard of the increases in the consumer price index since then the increase only restores the previous figure. This action of the Government is long overdue. It has been the cause of great social concern. It is a sad thing that the review does not go a little further. The last part of the statement puts forward a magic carpet view of the proposals and states: 
By this means not only will legal aid funds be saved but also the burden on the courts will be reduced. 
That is a portmanteau statement of what the Minister thinks the effects of the proposals will be. I hope that the burden of the courts will be reduced. I hope that costs will be saved. The important point which I am concerned to make is that undesirable social criteria have been introduced into the legal aid system by this statement. The essence of the undesirable social criteria is the explicit statement that if a person who is poor seeks the assistance of the law in a divorce matter or in various other matters which are referred to different standards will apply from those which apply to other people. If a person is particularly poor and is prepared to go to a bureaucrat and tell the bureaucrat that he is particularly distinguished in that regard and poorer than anyone else he may get the benefit of the alleviation of certain fees and so on which are now charged. 
I think that the whole philosophy of this statement is reprehensible and contrary to the philosophy of the Australian Legal Aid Office. If the Minister had to make trade-offs between the sums of money and social values I would have applauded the statement much more had he given much more time to the social values and less attention to the money. I am sure that another sum could have been done which would have brought a better result in human terms for the recipients of legal aid in this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources to the question I asked him yesterday about the newly announced export control policy in relation to minerals and to the Minister's answer. In referring to the Minister in the other place he said that the Minister's actions were dictated by concern for the national interest. I now ask: Is it the Government's view that the national interest requires the full implementation of the policy announced yesterday by the Minister in the other place? 
-I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1 975 and again in December 1 977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into affect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extent to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely:-  Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments.  Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension.  Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without.  Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension ageinvalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer the Minister to a statement made on the program  AM  this morning by the Prime Minister in which he described the policy on mineral export announced by  Mr Anthony  on 24 October as guidelines for discussion. I also refer the Minister to his answer to me in the Senate on 26 October when I asked him whether the full implementation of that policy was required in the national interest. He replied yes. I ask the Minister: Does the Government in fact have any policy at all on mineral exports? If so, what is it? Further, does the Government change its policy in the light of public discussion after the event? 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the recent decision of the Victorian Government to introduce a register of pecuniary interests of members of Parliament? What other States have introduced such a measure, and what different circumstances have led to the Federal Government's extraordinary prevarication about this issue? 
-This Bill is one of a series of Bills which the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has introduced in this place and in respect of which he has had tremendous success. He has had the approval of all members of the Senate. He has had the support of the Opposition.  His  record in the last few weeks is unblemished. This is another Bill in that process. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill; in fact it supports it. The proposal is to amend the Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act of 1 960. The principal Act, which is referred to and which this Bill is intended to amend, provides for a National Standards Commission which regulates the units of measurement of physical quantities and approves the designs of weighing appliances and so on. That is just a simple explanation of what is contained in the main Act. 
Earlier this evening I saved one of my colleagues, if I might say so, from what could have been almost a disaster. He told me that he was going to use this Bill to attack the metric system of which he strongly disapproves. I managed to meet him in the passage and point out to him that this Bill has nothing to do with the metric system. In fact I find, strangely enough, that he is here in this chamber now. He has an interest in weights and measures as well as in the metric system. This legislation is, in a very real sense, machinery. It might even be described as an updating. I refer the Senate briefly to the report of the Birch inquiry, an independent inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. It stated: 
CSIRO is specified as the guardian of the Commonwealth's standards of measurement under the general direction of the National Standards Commission. 
That in fact defines the essential relationship because the responsibility carried by CSIRO is exercised by the National Measurement Laboratory of CSIRO. In effect the Commission which is the subject of this Bill determines what are to become uniform units and standards of measurement. The practical, technological and scientific work in connection with this function is carried out by the National Measurement Laboratory. So there are two functions- one which is reposed in this Commission and the other which is reposed in CSIRO. There are some changes of arrangement in this legislation. CSIRO, for example, in the past has had a greater function, a stronger function, in the appointment of members of the Commission. This legislation changes that and gives CSIRO a more advisory function in relation to the appointment of members of the Commission. Such appointments in future will be made by the Governor-General. Those are the sorts of things which the legislation encompasses. As I said, we see no vast gulf of political principle dividing the Senate on this issue. If any of us had our life to live over and the drafting of this Bill was a key part of our life then the Bill might be slightly different. But the legislation before the Senate has the approval of the Opposition and for that reason 1 do not intend to talk any longeron it. 
I  present the following petition from 180 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: - 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. Has the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act, assent to which was reported to Parliament on 16 August 1977, yet come into operation? If not, what further consideration is being given to this legislation by the Government? What stage has this consideration reached? How many requests for exclusion of decisions of an administrative character, to use the definition contained in the Act, have been made by departments and authorities to the Government? 
-The Senate is debating  Senator Ryan's  motion relating to the disallowance of an Ordinance relating to the termination of pregnancies in the Australian Capital Territory. I should say at the beginning that the effect of the existing Ordinance seems to me to be somewhat unclear but it is quite clear in relation to the position of private clinics. Insofar as it relates to private clinics, I approve of the existing provisions of the Ordinance. But it is not so clear in its intent in relation to the termination of pregnancies in a hospital or a clinic and, in terms of the Government's statements about that situation, it is not clear at all. An amendment has been moved to  Senator Ryan's  motion by  Senator Evans.  I understand that the amendment has the approval of  Senator Ryan  because it expresses clearly her intention in relation to this issue. I support the intention of  Senator Ryan  and for that reason I will vote for her motion. But I do so in light of the amendment and in light of the notice of motion given by  Senator Rae  in this place. 
I am prepared to support the recommendation of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health. In doing so, I refer again to the history of this matter, which has been touched on by other honourable senators speaking in this place. It is important because in a very real sense it goes to the heart of the issue which the Senate is debating. First of all, let me say that I am very grateful to the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  for making such an explicit statement of the Government's intentions relating to self-government in the Australian Capital Territory. If we look at the history of the matter, however, we find that the Government's intentions have not always been as explicit and as clear in relation to this matter as  Senator Guilfoyle  would have had the Senate believe this morning. I refer of course, as other honourable senators have done, to the quite explicit statement by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in the House of Representatives on 24 March 1977 when he was asked a quite specific question about this matter and gave the following reply: 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so, that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. 
He went on at a later stage to give explicit approval of the 90-day Ordinance which was then introduced and said in that context that the purpose of the Ordinance was to allow the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly to decide these matters. There could not be a more explicit statement of the Government's intention at that stage. It was a statement of intent which was supported in fact by the action of the then Minister for the Capital Territory in introducing the first Ordinance. It was an Ordinance that was introduced, in  Senator Guilfoyle  's own words, to enable the Legislative Assembly to consider the issue '. 
I refer to these matters simply to indicate that the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly was entitled to believe that this was a matter within its province to determine. The Assembly commissioned the Standing Committee on Education and Health to report on the matter. Its report should be read by everybody who participates in this debate and everybody who is concerned about this issue. The Committee received numerous recommendations and heard numerous oral submissions from people in the Territory. The report itself contains a wealth of factual information and information which I regard as important. It should be read because, whatever one's views about this issue, it is a responsible report of a responsible body of the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory. As has been pointed out earlier, the recommendations in that report were adopted by the Legislative Assembly. The response to this was the Government's Ordinance which  Senator Ryan's  motion seeks to disallow because that Ordinance is completely in conflict with the Minister's previously given undertaking. 
I think it is important to reflect on the situation which is foreshadowed in the amendment moved by  Senator Evans  as to the intention of  Senator Ryan's  motion. The report of the Legislative Assembly records the fact that it is estimated that approximately 500 abortions are performed every year, on residents of the Australian Capital Territory- not necessarily in Canberra but frequently in Sydney and Melbourne. That is a fact which is inescapable and, as between women seeking an abortion in Sydney and women seeking an abortion in Canberra, there is a discrepancy, a discrimination, which is important and which I believe would have been important in the deliberations of the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory. I think that is an important matter which we have to consider. Because of the history of the matter, I regard that as the basic reason for supporting the action which has been taken by  Senator Ryan. 
Having said that, I want to refer to the issue of abortion itself. I must say that I am in some disagreement with certain people who also support  Senator Ryan,  such as  Senator Hamer,  in relation to this issue. I am in some disagreement with them because, whatever the legislative and administrative technicalities of this debate, I think, with respect, it is slightly glib to see it as an issue which does not involve one 's attitude to the question of abortion. I say that because the Ordinance itself specifically relates to the question of abortion and the circumstances in which abortions will be performed in the Australian Capital Territory. I also say that because I, as a senator, have received more than 2,000 letters on this matter. 
Whatever the position regarding the Ordinance, those people who have taken the trouble to write to me and to other honourable senators clearly perceive this issue as being related to the moral and social questions which relate to abortion. I think it is wrong for the Senate to try to decide this issue in some sort of legislative vacuum which seeks to divorce the debate from important social and moral questions. 
I would like to thank all those people who have taken the trouble to write to me. I particularly want to thank those who have taken the trouble to write thoughtful letters. I do not intend to reply to all of the letters which 1 have received. It would be a herculean task and I do not think the cause of human understanding and communication would be advanced by my sending a card or a roneoed letter back to some of the hundreds or probably thousands of people who have sent me cards or roneoed letters on this subject. But I will take the trouble to reply to some of those letters which I think have been genuinely thoughtful and concerned about this matter. I want to emphasise that, in the context of the debate in which the Senate is engaged, I think it is important that the views of those people who have taken the trouble to write to us on a sensitive and important issue should be considered. 
The difficulty I have about some of the letters and some of the views which have been put to me is a very practical one. It is simply this: The notion of abortion is not personally attractive to me. I would not seek to encourage people to have abortions. I believe that there are very legitimate and important social and moral questions involved in the abortion debate. But I do take the view, which I believe is strongly supported by circumstantial evidence, by facts and by the history of the abortion debate over many years, that, whatever this Senate does in relation to legislative proscription regarding abortion, abortions will still be sought by women and will still take place. I think that is the most important fact which we have to consider. As far as I am concerned, if as a senator I believe that, it is proper for me to make a social and political judgment about the circumstances in which those abortions which I believe will take place should take place. My own view is that those abortions should take place in a medical environment, in a hospital atmosphere, subject to the judgment of the medical profession and the care of the medical profession. I think the law should provide for that. 
I find it rather sad to reflect that the abortion debate is couched so much in terms of life as against choice. Every one of us I suppose would in a sense have the greatest difficulty in saying or believing that he or she is against life, and every one of us would have the greatest difficulty in saying or believing that he or she is against choice. They are both very nice slogan concepts with which it is difficult to grapple in sorting out some of the issues which are involved in this debate. 
In my view of this question, it is instructive to look in a very brief way at the history of abortion over many years in many societies. I remind the Senate that prior to 1880 neither in the United States nor in Australia was there any legislation or legislative prohibition of any kind on abortion. It was only in the 1 880s and 1 890s that in the United States, because the medical profession felt that so many abortions were being performed by totally unqualified people, pressure was engendered for the introduction of legislation which made an abortion a criminal offence. There is no doubt that the legislation which we have in this country flowed from that consideration. It is always said that the criminality of abortion is in some way some eternal verity. That is not true at all. There was no criminality for abortion, as I have said, in this country or in the United States prior to 1880. According to one theory propounded by  Dr James  Mohr in his book  Abortion in America: Origins and Evolution of National Policy,  it is quite clear that legislative prescription for abortion came about in the latter half of the 19th century because of an almost industrial union attitude of the medical profession, with which we are not unfamiliar in this country, to that particular issue. I think it is important to record that historical fact. 
Even considering the question of the alleged criminality or otherwise of abortion, I think it is important to note that since the inception of laws prohibiting abortion in one way or another, laws which are supposed to reflect the social mores of a society to which the legal system responds in some way, the law has always drawn an important distinction between murder, infanticide and the performance of an abortion. The penalties for murder, infanticide and procuring an abortion have always been very different. I believe that is because society as a whole makes a moral judgment that they are quite different things. I have great difficulty in accepting the view that an abortion procured during the first 1 1 weeks of pregnancy is murder. I am not prepared to accept the implications that follow from that allegation. I would have thought that the crime of murder involved a victim and a person who was totally independent of the person who performs the murder. Does it not follow from this characterisation of abortion in this way that we also characterise any woman who seeks an abortion as a murderer- a woman who otherwise might be innocent of any criminality at all? 
The significant point that I seek to make from the law as it has been and still is in most legislative prescriptions is that, however we might like to characterise abortion, the fact of the matter is that many women who are confronted with a difficult moral and social problem do not see it in that way. We live in a society in which that is so. We live in a world in which that is so. That may be a cause for very legitimate regret, but it is a fact of which I believe we have to take account. 
One-third of the abortions performed in the United States and one-third of the abortions performed in Australia, according to the best available evidence, are performed on teenage girls. Do we make a moral judgment as a Senate, and as a society, that we would condemn those people in the terms in which some of the debate about abortion is carried on? 
Do we make the judgment perhaps that an understanding of contraception is inadequate in our society and that an understanding of moral choice about a number of issues is inadequate? Alternatively, do we make the judgment perhaps that we live in a society in which there is insufficient room for legitimate choice to be made by women confronted with this situation? That bears on the whole question of choice, which is the other leg of the argument which is carried on about abortion. 
The capacity for choice is a very real and important question and it bears on the substance of the report of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health on this matter. That report contains some recommendations which go right to the question of the capacity to make choice and judgments in this particular situation. It contains recommendations also about information which might be necessary in order that the choice may be avoided altogether. I think the report of the Standing Committee on Education and Health should be considered by honourable senators in their deliberations on this matter. 
Another issue to which I wish to refer seems to me to be an argument which has to be dealt with in the context of the debate. I think it is a sound and sincere argument. I do not happen to agree with it. The argument is simply that, if by action taken in this Senate, a public clinic is established at the Canberra Hospital we are somehow taking pan in the decision which provides a more permissive abortion law and, accordingly, as a matter of consequence, that leads to a devaluation of human life in the minds of the community. If that argument could be proven, I think it would be a very important argument and one which we would have to consider. I do not believe that any senator, whatever is his or her position, who is participating in this debate wants to see a society in which there is a greater devaluation of human life. With the greatest respect to those who advance this argument, I do not think there is any evidence to support it at all. I shall quote from a book by  Dr Daniel  Callahan which is entitled  Abortion Law: Choice and Morality  and in which the author deals with the argument that a more permissive abortion law leads to a devaluation of human life in society in the following terms:   . . this is almost impossible to demonstrate since 'there is no evidence that societies which have liberal or permissive abortion laws are societies in which the meaning and value of life in general are  demonstably  more threatened than in societies which do not have such laws. ' 
It is a conclusion with which I respectfully agree. I say this because I think it would be very difficult for people who advance that argument to point to a society and to say that that is a society with a devalued view of human life compared with other societies because it has more permissive abortion laws. 
Let me take the example of one societySweden which was always said to be in this position. It was often argued that Sweden, as a result of whatever one might like to term its lawsliberal or permissive- on matters such as abortion and so on, had as a consequence a high rate of suicide. I think that argument was long ago disproved in favour of the view that Sweden has better, more accurate and more honest statisticians than many societies like our own in relation to questions such as suicide. I do not think that one can fairly point to a society like that, a society which has been, per capita, the greatest contributor to United Nations organisations for the relief of refugees and for the assistance of children throughout the world and say that it has a more devalued view of human life than a society like Australia which is more concerned with its own economic problems perennially than with international problems of concern such as the ones I have mentioned. I do not think that that can properly be said at all. I think that there is very little evidence to support that contention. 
I mention the argument because I think it is one which is held sincerely by many people. I hope and believe that the argument which they advance on this issue is wrong. I mention some of these matters because I think it is important for each senator who takes part in this debate to try to say why he or she has adopted a particular position. I think that some of the factors to which I have referred are important in the overall context of the debate and ones which have certainly been important to me. I indicate that I will be supporting  Senator Ryan  's motion. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to an article in the  Age  newspaper of Tuesday, 7 November, alleging a critical reduction in the on-call interpreter service for migrants. I ask the Minister: Is it true that, following instructions from the Canberra central office of the Department given on 19 October 1978, a number of restrictions were placed on the interpreter services in Victoria? If such restrictions were imposed, , is the Minister, in view of the likely hardship resulting for migrant communities, prepared to guarantee that these restrictions will be reviewed or lifted immediately? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Has the Tertiary Education Commission written to Australian universities indicating that from the beginning of 1980 they should achieve a level of study leave which, averaged over the two years, 1980 and 1981, will not exceed 7 per cent of available man-years in staff time? Does this request not imply that the Tertiary Education Commission in this letter has adopted an approach different to that of the final report of the Tertiary Education Commission and the statement by the Minister which indicated that study leave would be phased in over three years, including the year 1981? Is the Minister aware of the letter from the Tertiary Education Commission to the universities and did he instruct the Commission to write in those terms? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: What arrangements have been made for the sale of Australian uranium to South Korea? Has Australia signed a nuclear safeguards agreement with South Korea? Has South Korea signed the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons? In spite of that, is that country currently developing a nuclear weapons capacity? Will the Minister report later- if he is unable to do so today- to the Senate on these matters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer him to a front page article in the  Canberra Times  this morning relating to numeracy and literacy tests which the Confederation of Australian Industry in the Australian Capital Territory intends to provide for school leaving students intending to enter industry. If I may, I seek an opinion from the Minister about the desirability of this course from the point of view of his Department particularly as, in a sense, it is discriminatory between those school leavers intending to enter private industry and those who are not. Is the Minister satisfied that the evidence of literacy and numeracy levels justifies this sort of departure in respect of a section of the school leavers? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact, as reported in the newspapers, that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has written to the Federal Government protesting at Government interference in the running of the ABC? Did the  Chairman  also warn of the effect of the shortage of funds on program content in the ABC? Was not a similar warning given to the Government by the former  chairman, Sir Henry  Bland, in 1976? How long does the Government take to heed warnings of this kind? 
-I rise very briefly, on the motion for the first reading of this money Bill, to speak about two matters which concern me and which I wish to raise before this Parliament rises. The first matter relates to the situation of Timorese refugees in Australia and particularly the fact that today the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  saw representatives of Timorese refugees in this country and gave them a number of undertakings which must be regarded as of extremely doubtful validity. It is now some three years since there was a large influx of Timorese refugees to Australia. In my capacity as a senator with constituents, I have had a great deal to do with the Timorese community in Melbourne. I can only say to other senators in this chamber that if they regard this issue as being a very peripheral one they should take a little time out, meet these people and see the circumstances in which some Timorese families are living in Melbourne, and then come back to this place. Perhaps then they will have a slightly different perspective on this whole question. 
The fact of the matter is that it is now some 1 8 months since the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs said that a team from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Australia would be sent to East Timor. He said that negotiations were under way for a team to be sent to East Timor in relation to family reunion. An undertaking was given that it would all take place within six months. Late last year women of the Timorese community in Melbourne, which is the only one with which I personally am familiar, were beginning to ask what was happening about that undertaking. In Melbourne there are women with a number of children and no father, the father being in East Timor; and there are brothers and sisters under 12 years of age, with no parents here at all. They are in a somewhat hostile environment- a different culture and language- attending schools in the Melbourne suburb of Richmond, living in high rise flats in a totally strange world. These circumstances are indeed very tragic. Now the Government is saying that perhaps this matter can be fixed up before Christmas this year. 
I do not know what validity there is in threats and so on; but a number of Timorese women in Melbourne have said that if they are not reunited with their families by Christmas this year they will go on a hunger strike until they are. This Parliament, of course, cannot yield to blackmail from any outside body in Australian society; but I think we have to face up to the consequences of that threat as being an indication of the degree of desperation which these people have. What seems to be happening, frankly, is that the Government is engaging in bilateral negotiations with the Indonesian Government on this question and is constantly being obstructed by the Indonesian Government. Our position as a country in this region, in terms of real-politik, clearly is that we do not want to offend the Indonesian Government. Accordingly, if the Indonesian Government says 'No, we cannot accommodate you' - the Australian Government- in terms of some humanitarian exercise in relation to these people and the reunification of families, the Australian Government says 'Manana'- or whatever- 'we have tried and there is nothing more that can be done about it'. 
There are, of course, other things that the Australian Government could do about it. The Australian Government has not discussed this issue, as I understand it, with the Dutch Government, with the United States Government, with the Japanese Government or with any other government which has substantial economic interests in Indonesia. The Dutch Government has not only economic interests but also a very substantial degree of sentimental association, if one can call it that in the case of an ex-colonial power. It certainly has a degree of influence and persuasiveness over the Indonesian Government, that is, probably much greater than that of the Australian Government, which is seen to be in a subservient role in a bilaterial negotiation situation. 
I raise this matter because this is one of the few remaining opportunities I will have to do so. I regard it as one of tragic sadness and of utmost importance. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs seems to be adopting a most supine role on this whole question. It has been raised again and again by  Senator Missen  from the other side; it has been raised by me and others on this side.  Senator Missen  and I raise it because we have been together and seen the situation about which we are talking. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs seems to treat this tragic and important situation as just another file. It is not just another file; it is a matter about which we as senators and legislators ought to be vitally concerned. That is the first matter I raise. 
The second matter I raise briefly is the current problem of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think for the first time in its history the Australian Broadcasting Commission- the national broadcasting system of this countryhas been off the air for a number of days. There is no doubt that it has been off the air, whether we like it or not, because of the perception of Government policy in relation to the Commission. 
-I am not giving the honourable senator a lecture on the principle of the right to strike. I am happy to have that debate with her at another time if she wishes. I am talking about the ABC. Let me deal with the matter in another way. Let me refer to the basis of the statements of the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He said in a letter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  almost exactly the same sort of thing as his predecessor,  Sir Henry  Bland- not one who endeared himself to the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission - 
-He did in a quaint sort of way. I had a lot of affection for him. In my few private moments I have sometimes been regarded by some people as a collector of antiquities. I had an affection for  Sir Henry  Bland in that sense. The important point is that in 1976  Sir Henry  Bland used the expression: 'The ABC has been cut to the bone'. The Government did not seem to heed that advice from the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Now, in November 1978, the current  Chairman  of the ABC, who in the past has adopted something of a mouselike role has now begun to roar. He said in a letter to the Minister just the other day that not only is the programming policy of the ABC being affected by government financial strictures and staff cuts but also the morale of the ABC is being affected. More importantly he says that the Government keeps interfering in the ABC. I do not know what he means by the words: 'The Government keeps interfering in the ABC. But one way in which the Government is not interfering in the affairs of the ABC quite clearly is a constructive way. In my lifetime the ABC's program content and the program standard have never been so bad as they have been in the last 12 months. This relates very much to Government policy. 
-Yes, I know, and the honourable senator sits there complacently saying that it is passe now; that we had it three weeks ago. That is very interesting. I am not concerned about what happened three weeks ago; I am concerned about what is happening now and what has been happening for the last two years. If this Government is not malevolent in its intent towards the ABC, if its policies are not being dictated by the 'get politics off the front page' syndrome which we heard about a couple of years ago we ought to hear about it. 
It is most important and most unusual when the  Chairman  of a statutory corporation in this country stands up and says that this Government is interfering with the ABC, that the ABC is not getting enough money or staff and that it cannot do the sort of work which it believes it ought to do. I mention this because the Australian broadcasting service has been the source of great pride to this country in the past, and it is important in 1978 that we have a few things in this country that we can be proud about. 
I understand that there has been a bit of chitchat in the Government party rooms about who should be on the ABC. I understand the suggestion has been put that perhaps members of Parliament should serve on the ABC. That may be a good suggestion. I note that  Senator Knight  acknowledges that. I invite him at the Government parties' next meeting to raise this matter in a different context. The Government should look at the question of behaving towards the ABC with the degree of maturity which the British Government has towards the British Broadcasting Corporation, which British political parties have towards the BBC. I refer to the fact that the members of the board of governors of the BBC are appointed after consultation between the two major parties. The Prime Minister of Britain always consults with the Leader of the Opposition about who will be appointed to those positions. I think it is a very important principle which could be followed in a number of statutory corporations in Australia if all this waffle which is talked about taking the ABC out of politics and taking everything out of politics is to have any meaningful ring about it at all. 
It is part of our platform. We did not consider that aspect then because I had not contributed to the platform at that time. The honourable senator should read the platform as it has been since 1976. It is most important. I will send the honourable senator a copy in the morning's post. He ought to read it, marie it, inwardly digest it and think about it insofar as he is capable of doing so. 
-Of course it does. The honourable senator's interjections have a certain allegro quality tonight which seems to suggest that her presence in the Senate is a post-prandial one. I welcome her intense concentration on the subject of this debate. I wish she was as diligent about trying to see that something is done about the sorts of problems which I have raised instead of making those cliche-laden, bland speeches which she makes on every issue which arises in relation to the ABC in this Parliament. The ABC is a creative organisation. It is an organisation which bears thinking about constructively and in a creative way. I invite Government senators to try to do that in the future even if that capacity has eluded them in the past. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
-Senator Mulvihill, who is unable to be here at the moment, requested me to ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  whether this Bill, which deals with disciplinary matters, could be described in any sense as a vehicle which would enable  Senator Mulvihill  to find out the procedures currently adopted by the Public Service in relation to persons who are seeking entry into the Public Service and who have, for example, criminal convictions or convictions of a kind which were specified to me as draft resisting offences and so on. I notice that the Minister has beside him a battery of talented officials whom I am sure will be able to help him with this sort of problem. I am seeking to find out what procedures apply to recruitment to the Public Service and what rights to any promotions or promotion appeal existing members of the Public Service have regarding promotions. I ask the Minister whether he can assist us with those matters. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the undertakings given by the Government some 18 months ago in relation to the question of reunification of Timorese refugees with their families in Timor, particularly the fathers of families in Timor. As a result of further bilateral negotiations with Indonesia can the Government now give any further and firmer guarantees in relation to this question? I also ask: Has the Government considered the possibility of discussing with other governments with close trading and other relationships with Indonesia a method of obtaining a more favourable and speedy solution to this problem, in respect of which those countries might be able to influence the Government of Indonesia? 
-The Opposition supports the Public Service Amendment Bill. The Bill provides for some overdue improvements to the provisions of the Public Service Act in relation to the machinery for promotions. We hope that it will also have an indirect effect on the operational efficiency and morale of the Australian Public Service. The new disciplinary procedures contained in clause 20 of the Bill indicate the Government's acceptance of the recommendations of a sub-committee of the Joint Council of the Australian Public Service. These are recommendations that the Labor Government substantially implemented for the staff of Australia Post and Telecom Australia when the Telecommunications Act and the Postal Services Act were introduced in 1 975. 
I will touch briefly on the matters which are seen as being of particular value to the Public Service and as improvements to the legislation. In clause 56 of the Bill there is a slightly more contemporary expression of behaviour constituting misconduct. These provisions are always contentious and difficult and are subject to disagreement and uncertainty of interpretation, but an attempt has been made to give them a more contemporary flavour than was the case with the previous legislation. Secondly, the legislation contains a sounder management procedure for dealing with second, third and fourth division staff whose conduct is under challenge for a variety of reasons which are specified in the Bill. The new disciplinary code which is referred to makes various changes to the existing provisions to take account of the principles of natural justice and fairness, which are again always matters which come into consideration in any disciplinary clauses. Some of the rights which have been emphasised in this legislation are regarded as rights at natural law and are not necessarily incorporated in legislation of this kind. I refer to the right to reply to charges, the right to be given reasons for decisions, the extension of appeal rights to embrace all formal disciplinary action and provisions which will enable findings to be reviewed if and when new evidence is brought to bear on the facts in dispute. 
A number of other changes have the same sort of character about them. I understand that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  is anxious to have this Bill passed as quickly as possible. Anyone who wishes to be further enlightened about the actual steps which this Bill seeks to achieve legislatively should consult the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  or the House of Representatives  Hansard,  where the Opposition's attitude to this matter is clearly spelt out. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer the Minister to a question I asked him on 26 October this year relating to the announcement by the Minister for Trade and Resources of a new minerals export control policy. I asked the Minister 
Is it the Government's view that the national interest requires the full implementation of the policy announced by the Minister . . . ? 
I was referring to  Mr Anthony.  I remind  Senator Durack  that he replied: 'Yes'. I now ask the Minister: In view of the decision yesterday of the Australian Mining Industry Council specifically rejecting the Government s policy, what is the intention of the Government in relation to the Minister's answer of 26 October? 
I have participated in the work of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts which has been described by  Senator Davidson  in detail. The recommendations of the Committee have also been described by him in some detail. On behalf of the Opposition, I wish to put the minority view, as I think it is termed in the United States of America, in relation to this report. Its compilation has taken a long time. I personally feel a sense of deep deprivation as a result of serving on this Committee because my wife and I got rid of the family television set after the Committee had been meeting for a few months. 
While that may have been in the interests of my children- I firmly believe that to be so- I personally feel deprived as a result of having to make that decision. 
I miss the opportunity of seeing people like  Senator Missen  on television. The important point that I seek to make by making that remark is that the findings of the Committee in relation to this matter point to some very serious problems in our society with which, in my view, we as a society or as governments have not been adequately concerned in the past. 
Some very nice problems are raised in this report about the role of government and parliaments. For example, one of the Committee's findings, which were made on the basis of evidence put to it, was that the average viewing time which children spend watching television is of the order of 20 to 22 hours a week but one-fifth of the child population of this country watches television for much longer than that- up to 60 to 70 hours a week. It is important to consider how much we as a parliament should be concerned about those children. As a result of the political debate in this place our society is committed to vast expenditure on education. I believe that this report raises the very important question of whether television is a counterculture in our society which is running quite contrary to the values which the education system may well wish to instil or encourage. I think it is important to question whether our priorities as a society in this regard have been right. 
I should indicate that other countries do not have the same sorts of difficulties as Australia in relation to these problems. For example, in some 16 countries very strict regulations are placed on the showing of violent programs on television. Of course, there has been no such meaningful regulation in Australia in the past. The report attempts to grapple with that issue. 
One very important point which I think should be made is that this Parliament has had reports of royal commissions and committees of the Parliament placed before it for some 22 years since television first came to Australia. The Vincent Committee and various other committees have reported to this Parliament. This report contains quotations from statements which were made up to 20 years ago and which are as true today as they were when they were made 20 years ago. That is testament to massive inactivity on the part of government- I make no partisan political comment in saying this- in ignoring the reports of this Parliament. 

 Senator Davidson drew attention to the fact that this Committee wants to review the situation arising from the publication of this report in 18 months time. I think that it is appropriate to do so because the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  indicated to the Committee that the Government would consider the recommendations in this report and take them into account in any amendments which it would make to the Broadcasting and Television Act. I think it is very important that that review process take place so that a committee of this Senate is not treated in 1978 as committees of this Parliament have been treated over many years in dealing with matters relating to television and particularly children's television. 
The Committee was assisted in the preparation of this report by the distilled wisdom of the years which appears on the front page of the report in the form of a quotation from George Bernard Shaw. It reads: 
Take care to get what you like or you will be forced to like what you get. 
I mention that because in a sense it is a summation of a very important view expressed in this report which goes to another question of the claim by many commercial television operators in Australia that the notion of freedom of the media carries with it the notion that the media should be free to show whatever they like without any prospect of government intervention. I think that the report deals very kindly with them in this regard because in suggesting government intervention it suggests that governments should also make a financial commitment to that intervention in terms of the quality of children's programs. 
There is only one other matter which I wanted to mention and that is, as  Senator Davidson  has already said, that the Committee will review the matter in 1 8 months time. The report laid a good deal of stress on the question of media education, particularly media education for adults. I must say that I have some scepticism, which was indicated during Committeehearings, about the viability of that sort of proposition. I find difficulty in answering the question of why the average Australian would go to a course on media education when he can stay at home and watch television. That is the sort of inherent problem which we found throughout the Committee's deliberations on this question. I reiterate that I think we have missed a couple of generations of Australians by our failure to act in this regard in the past and drawn the Senate's attention to the very rapid rate of technological change in the communications industry. It may be that if we start educating adults or even children now to understand the nature of the electronic media, by the time that process has been implemented and has been under way for a few years the whole nature of the electronic media will have changed. In fact we will have missed again. A generation of Australians will have been educated for a sort of horse-and-buggy era in television when they should have been educated for the opposite to the horseandbuggy era. 
The Space Age is perhaps a bit of a cliche. The appropriate expression temporarily alludes me but a sophisticated audience like the Australian Senate will understand the point which I am seeking to make. I think this is a very important report and I commend its reading to all honourable senators. I commend it to them because there is a lot of community interest in this question, as  Senator Davidson  has pointed out. It is a growing community interest. I also commend all those groups who took the trouble to put in thoughtful submissions to the Committee. I think honourable senators should read this report because they are going to be asked about it in the course of discharging their functions as senators. I think it is important that they form a view about it. In view of the state of research and so on which is available in Australia at this time I think that the Committee has done a pretty reasonable sort of job in trying to pull the thing together for the purpose of encouraging an on-going debate in Australian society. I commend the report to the Senate and I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill and, in the spirit of the times, I will deal quickly with the reasons for our opposition. Essentially, the Bill deals with section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act, the section under which an authority to mine uranium is granted by the Minister for Trade and Resources. In introducing this legislation into the House of Representatives, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in his second reading speech stated: 
The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Act to be amended so that a mining authority to be issued under section 41 of the Act for mining at Ranger affords the persons to whom the authority has been conferred, security of tenure . . . The Ranger Joint Venturers have pointed out that section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act, as it presently stands, does not provide them with adequate security of tenure. 
From what I have quoted, it can be seen that the Minister is dealing glibly with the situation. Quite bluntly, the Bill is an attempt to legislate against the possibility of a future Labor government revoking an authority to mine uranium. Its purpose is to provide security for the companies, their backers and possible customers. It obviously was considered necessary in the course of the preparation of the documents relating to the Ranger agreement. Without going at length into the matter, the degree of effectiveness of that rather thick headed attempt, if I may refer to an initiative of this Government in those terms, does not need to be explored in the context of this debate. I find it extraordinarily absurd that the Government should seek to legislate beyond the grave in which it may well find itself in 1980. The provisions of the legislation relating to wills provide for people to do that, but it is not normal for a Government to attempt that sort of exercise in the carrying out of its policies, particularly those which are the subject of wide disagreement and discussion in the Australian community. 
The detailed sections of the Bill have been fully referred to in the course of the somewhat lengthy debate in the House of Representatives, a debate in which the Senate, by virtue of the strictures of time, will not be able to indulge. I draw the attention of the Senate to some of the important consequences of this legislation as seen by the Opposition. Firstly, I think it is important that the Senate be reminded of the recommendations of the first Ranger inquiry report. I have always had some doubts about the practice of governments- in this case it was the Labor Government- to determine that issues of great national policy and questions involving some degree of national and social morality should be left in the hands of a judge. It seems extraordinary that we continue on that course and have some allegedly independent authority determine all these matters of great national consequence for us. This has been done with the approval of both sides of the House. The first Ranger inquiry report contained the following recommendation: 
A decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth government ensures that the Commonwealth can at any time on the basis of considerations of the nature discussed in this report, immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period. 
On 25 August 1977 the Minister for Trade and Resources announced the Government's policy on uranium mining and in his statement on this very question stated: 
The Government will therefore always be in a position to move immediately to terminate uranium development permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period as recommended by the Ranger inquiry. 
This undertaking by the Minister following on the recommendations in the Fox report can be put in the same hogwash category as the Minister's recent announcements about mineral export policy which have ranged from firm intentions to weaker intentions, consultations and so on. Such announcements lead to gross uncertainty in the mining community and in the Australian community generally about the sincerity of the Government's intentions. The Government's intentions on this matter were stated quite clearly and are in line with the Fox report recommendations. The intention of this Bill is to ensure that the recommendation of the Ranger inquiry and  Mr Anthony's  assertion of 25 August 1977 cannot be implemented. The legislation is an explicit rejection of the recommendation and a denial of the Minister's own statement. That is the first consequence of this legislation. It is another illustration of this Government's spastic approach to policy, with the left hand never knowing what the right hand is doing in relation to these matters. 
-I find that a penetrating attack on what I have had to say. I will certainly bear it in mind. As I say, that rejection is the first important consequence of the Bill now before the 
Senate. In this Senate over the past two or three years we have had the extraordinary spectacle of the sort of thing to which I just referred, and which  Senator Young  finds amusing happening in this place. It is a cause of concern to anybody who is interested in the process of government and the reliability or otherwise of statements made by Ministers on the basis of expert recommendations. 
The second important consequence of this Bill is that new conditions and restrictions on uranium mining, particularly those recommended in the Ranger report, could not be arbitrarily or unilaterally added to the authority to mine which is given by the Minister. This would apply to a whole range of factors. We are dealing, in the case of uranium mining, with perhaps not a very dangerous process; but in dealing with the development of the nuclear industry generally we are dealing with a dangerous process which is a cause of concern to nations and communities throughout the world. The result of this legislation is that no new conditions or restrictions could be added. That might well mean, for example, if a different view is developed in this country on the whole question of the nuclear fuel cycle, the disposal of nuclear reactor waste, and so on, that no steps could be taken in relation to this authority to mine which would alter the conditions that are now in it. There may well be new environmental considerations which ought to be taken into account by any responsible government but which cannot be taken into account under the terms of this legislation. 
The third consequence of the legislation is that, as far as assignments of interests are concerned, the 1974 memorandum of understanding gave pre-emptive weight to the right to purchase, in the case of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's interest, to Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd; and in the case of Peko 's interest, to EZ, and vice versa. This Bill makes no such provisions or restrictions, although it does make transfers conditional on ministerial approval. Again, that is an interesting example of the inconsistency in the statements of intention of the Government. Fourthly, the memorandum of understanding referred to an initial authority to be granted for a period of 2 1 years and added that the Ranger project was not to continue in force during the economic life of the uranium ore deposits in the project area. This proposal is for about 85,000 tonnes of uranium to be mined; at 3,000 tonnes per annum rising to 6,000 tonnes per annum. That means, in effect, a lifetime of known economic reserves of 14 to 28 years, depending on the market and, of course, the discovery of additional reserves which could lengthen the life of that arrangement. That again is quite contrary to the initial memorandum of understanding. 
In conclusion, let me reiterate the objections of the Opposition to this Bill. I have pointed to the absurd inconsistencies in the Government's attitude to it and the different statements that have been made by the Minister on this matter. Let me point to the main, basic objections of the Opposition: Firstly, there is the basic objection that the Labor Opposition has a different policy on uranium from that of the Government Of course, that is a legitimate objection of which account has to be taken in the normal process of political debate. The important fact is that that difference of policy between the Opposition and the Government does reflect substantial differences in the community on this question. It is in the light of that that this Government has introduced this 'steam roller to crack a nut' legislation- I invite no interjection from  Senator Young-  in the way in which it has. There is an important point in terms of continuity in government and the considerations which apply in normal political debate. 
The second major objection is the one which the Minister himself has stressed on previous occasions and which was pointed out in the Fox Inquiry report. That is the inappropriateness of the Atomic Energy Act to regulate a commercial operation. This was all referred to in the debate which we had in May of this year. The Fox Ranger Inquiry report was very critical of the use of the Atomic Energy Act and the severe security provisions of that Act. It was reinforced by another statement made by the Minister himself during his second reading speech on the present Bill, when he had this to say: 
While the Act was designed to allow mining, detailed provisions to cover mining on a commercial basis were never included. 
This is again a reference to the history of this matter and the undesirability of using the Atomic Energy Act for commercial purposes. 
The third main objection is that .governments should at all times have the authority to order the cessation of uranium mining, based on considerations of nuclear proliferation, including the Nuclear non-proliferation Treaty which we have signed and some of the countries to which we have arranged to sell uranium have signed but are clearly not abiding by. Governments should have the authority at all times to order the cessation of uranium rnining because of important issues such as waste disposal and environmental protection. When one asks questions in this place about the steps which are being taken by miners in the Northern Territory in relation to that issue, one just does not get answers on important questions such as the pollution of the Alligator River, All these questions should be a fundamental principle that governments and this Parliament have the right to order the cessation of uranium mining because of some of those very important considerations which are involved in this issue. 
Earlier in my remarks I quoted from the report of the Ranger Inquiry in which that matter was stressed and stressed again, and it was taken up by the Minister himself with apparent approval. It is important to note that the argument used by  Mr Anthony,  the Minister- that the authority to mine should provide security of tenure similar to that enjoyed by the holders of a mining lease in force under most of the State laws- is quite false. The comparison is irrelevant; the circumstances are quite different. The whole case in favour of controlling uranium exploitation is that it needs and ought to be treated differently from other mining. In the words of the first Ranger Inquiry report, 'uranium is a very special metal'. I know that it is a very special metal in the eyes of this Government. It shines like diamonds in a- what shall I say? 
-The honourable senator puts them in his pipe. He should put something in his pipe. 
Yes. Of course uranium is a very special metal. It has attracted a great deal of interest and a great deal of noise from this Government. 
-Let me refer to some of the noises honourable senators opposite make. Our position has been fairly consistent. 
Government senators- Ha, ha ! 
It has. 
-Senator Messner can have a look at Don Dunstan. He has a look at Don Dunstan almost every day at Question Time, and he never looks much good.  His  difficulty is that he will still be looking at him as the Premier in about 10 years time, and there is nothing he will be able to do about it. If we look back to the headlines in newspapers prior to the 1977 election where people like  Mr Anthonythe  professional loud mouths of Australian politics- were promising that uranium mining would produce 100,000 jobs, we recall that sort of stuff. It was on the basis of projections like this that the much heralded uranium mining decision was made. I would remind Government senators about that. I look forward to the day when they can tell me that uranium mining in Australia has provided 100,000 jobs or anything like that number. It is on the basis of those sorts of things that uranium has become a very special metal for this Government. Anything becomes special which looks like getting the Government out of its particular problems of government. This legislation, of course, goes right to the question of problems of government. 
The legislation is quite extraordinary, not supported by the Ranger Inquiry report and not supported by statements of the Minister for Trade and Resources which he made in this Parliament. As I say, it is quite unusual legislation which seeks to bind future governments, which I would have thought was a quite irresponsible principle of government for any party to embark on in this place. It is for those sorts of reasons that the Opposition firmly rejects and opposes this legislation. It is a source of regret that this matter will not be canvassed as fully as it might be in the Senate because df the pressures which seem to be burdening us all at this particular time of the year. 
I would like to clarify my statement of a moment ago. There are, of course, two Bills before the Senate. 
The first is the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. The second is described as the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2). My remarks relate to the second Bill and not to the other Bill, which the Opposition does not oppose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
-In order to avoid having a division may I indicate that a decision has been made by the Opposition in relation to this matter, and that I have consulted  Senator Harradine  also. The entire membership of the Opposition, and  Senator Harradine,  oppose the Bill. I want that fact recorded. In those circumstances we will not call for a division. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment or debate. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
-This Bill deals with machinery matters relating to the Trade Union Training Authority. The reasons for introduction of the Bill were outlined by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech. I need only to indicate that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 

 Senator Durack (Western AustraliaAttorneyGeneral) (4.9.)- I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: When will the nursing degree programs for registered nurses at the Western Australian Institute of Technology and the Lincoln Institute of Health Sciences be approved by the Tertiary Education Commission? I note that the report on the subject is in favour of nursing degrees for registered nurses. My question relates to implementation. 
-The Opposition opposes this legislation. The purpose of the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 is to amend the Trade Practices Act 1 974 to provide a specific prohibition on a person who, together or in concert with another person, engages in conduct for the purpose having or likely to have the effect of preventing or substantially hindering a third person, not an employer of the first person, from engaging in interstate, territorial or overseas trade or commerce. There are, of course, complementary sections to that main purpose of the Bill. 
In the limited time which is available to me might I, for the benefit of laymen, restate the purposes of the Bill in a somewhat different way. 
I refer to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  by  Mr John  Short. When describing this legislation he said: 
The need to extend Section 45D to cover certain primary boycotts follows from the Government's realisation during the live sheep export dispute last April that there are considerable difficulties in construing such disputes as secondary boycotts. 
This is because secondary boycotts are denned as concerted actions by persons hindering or preventing a third person in supplying goods or services . . . 
He went on to say: 
Therefore, in order successfully to invoke the secondary boycott provisions of the Act in the live sheep export dispute it would have been necessary to prove that the relevant union was putting pressure on, say, the shipping lines to stop the exportation of sheep. 
But it would have been difficult for any party using the Trade Practices Act against the union to prove that the union was, in fact, putting such pressure on the shipping lines. 
Under the amendments introduced yesterday it would not be necessary to establish such pressure. 
I have referred to that article because for the purposes of the comments which I briefly want to make about this question it is perhaps an adequate explanation of the purpose of the legislation. 
On 2 June 1977 the Parliament, which was to rise on that day for the winter recess, debated the first inclusion in the legislation of provisions relating to secondary boycotts. It is an extraordinary facet of the operations of this Government that any legislation which is of a controversial nature, and particularly legislation of a controversial nature which impinges upon the area of industrial relations, is always introduced on the last day of a sitting. Not only is it introduced on the last day of a sitting but also the experience so far has been that much of that legislation has not been used. This has been the pattern with the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation and with the Commonwealth employees conditions of employment legislation which prescribed penalties for Commonwealth employees who take industrial action. Although this sort of legislation has been introduced on the last day of a sitting, not one piece of this legislation in fact has been proclaimed. 
It is, of course, characteristic of this Government that its industrial relations policy is really confined to trying to induce high drama into a situation which is not one in which dramatis personae perform with the most effective results. When the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1 977 was before the Senate on 2 June 1977 1 said: 
It is a matter of regret that it is brought into the Senate on the second last day of the parliamentary sitting before . . . the winter recess. 
In referring to this aspect of the legislation I drew to the Senate's attention the Labor Opposition's concern in these terms: 
We say that this is a silly part of the legislation and one which should be exorcised by an intelligent government which is concerned with its own rhetoric about industrial relations. Of course, by virtue of that provision substantial penalties can be imposed on persons, including unions, engaged . . . in secondary boycotts. 
I went on to speak to that matter in those terms. Again, as I say, this legislation is legislation which comes up under the guise of trade practices legislation which is basically concerned with the situation of industrial relations in this country. I would like to quote from a 1975 speech of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this subject. In regard to the subject of industrial relations he said: 
Our view is that satisfactory industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. Attitudes of mutual respect, a willingness to listen, to understand, to reason and discuss in an informed way, are essential. These attitudes cannot be created by any party's industrial relations policies. 
What I briefly put to the Senate in relation to this legislation is that again it is symptomatic of the silly courses of conduct that have been followed by this Government on industrial relations. I also draw attention to one or two matters that I think are very important in this regard. The scapegoat syndrome runs very strongly through this Government's overall policies, and particularly so through its industrial relations policies. None of the rhetoric about attitudes of mind in which the Prime Minister indulged himself in 1975 has ever been reflected in legislation brought before the Parliament by this Government. 
Of course, important documents relating to the very questions that are concerned with attitudes of mind have been tabled in the Senate. For example, the Jackson Committee had some very savage things to say about industrial relations in this country and the determinants in bad industrial relations generally. This Government has done nothing about any of the matters relating to industrial relations that were raised in the Jackson Committee report. That, of course, is not a malaise which results purely from the conduct of trade unions. It is one which affects Australian industry, employer and employee alike, and is one of the principal causes of the problems from which we now suffer, and which the Government seeks to rectify by empty rhetoric about its industry policy. 
The greatest problem that faces this country is that of the inability of Australian manufacturing industry to compete. That, in turn, involves all sorts of factors. It is not, as this Government would have us believe, just wage overhang. Important management factors are also involved. There is the important factor of morale in the work force. The Government has done nothing about all these things. If it were to be good enough to consult the last Bureau of Statistics' figures on strikes in Australia- which both by Australian and international standards are at a relatively low level- it will note a most interesting category of strikes in Australia which relates to the Jackson report- management induced strikes. Some 15 per cent or more of strikes are described as management induced. Similarly, the Jackson Committee had things to say about the high level of industrial accidents, another area in which this Government either nationally or through negotiations with the States, has given no leadership. It has introduced a lot of legislation that is full of sound and fury, signifying not very much- legislation that has proved totally irrelevant to the resolution of industrial disputes. 
The Government, as it brings down this legislation today, has right before its eyes the transport workers' strike of a week or two ago, in which the provisions of section  45D  were invoked by a  Mr Gorman  in Victoria. There was a lot of noise and huffing and puffing about all that but, again, the resolution of the dispute was in the hands of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which brought it to a quite speedy end. 
We can refer, as we have done in debates before, to the live sheep export question. The resolution of that matter has not been in any way in the hands of the Government. In two of the key States concerned it has been resolved by negotiation. One can go right back through the major disputes which have plagued industrial relations in this country for the last two or three years. I have in mind the Telecom strike, in which the Government interfered, with the direct result that the strike was kept going longer than it need have. Again, the Government interfered in the Waterside Workers' Federation strike. That strike was a direct consequence of this Government's failure to do anything about the capacity of Australian unions to amalgamate. The Latrobe Valley strike also was settled by process of conciliation and arbitration. 
One can examine every major strike that this country has had since the Fraser Government came to power and note that it has been settled through the conciliation and arbitration system and largely, if not exclusively, as a result of the negotiating efforts of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, whom this Government indulges in the luxury of abusing from time to time. The important role played by the  President  of the ACTU, in terms of the public interest in this country, has not been matched by any of the scrappy and rubbishy legislation in this field which this Government has brought down. 
-Yes, but maybe the honourable senator will think about it over Christmas. He would need three months to do that. I have made the point on numerous occasions in this place and it is now sinking into the Government's skull to the extent that a special committee of Ministers has been appointed to deal with industrial relations. What decisions of value to society will result from the deliberations of that committee, if  Senator Durack  's comment is any indication of its quality, I do not know. We can only hope. 
My final important point is that during this Government 's term of office these matters have been resolved within the province of the conciliation and arbitration system, which is unique in the world but, which I agree, is full of faults. But that is the arena in which, I would put it on behalf of the Opposition, these matters should be dealt with. This Government's policies are very derivative. The amendments to the trade practices legislation represent basically a pinch from the United States of America, where a totally different industrial situation obtains. In that country there is no conciliation and arbitration system. It does not have Bob Hawkes,  Sir John  Moores and such people, who are appropriately concerned with these matters, experienced in them and have the capacity to settle them. 
-No, I did not say that. That is a clever interjection, but the honourable senator knows that I did not say it. If  Senator Missen  is seriously interested in the point he should read the comment that I made when we last debated the trade practices legislation and its social and utilitarian value. The point I make relates purely to industrial relations, an area in which there has been massive failure by the Government. The amendment before us is but another attempt to wave a big stick to support the empty rhetoric which has come from Government Ministers but which produced no results in terms of the public interest. For the reasons that I have given, the Opposition opposes the legislation. 
-This is one of a series of Bills which the Government has introduced by way of amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act. The Opposition does not oppose the provisions of this BUI, having seen them as part of the necessary machinery to carry out certain recommendations of the Green report on broadcasting in Australia and to bring up to date certain related provisions of the Act. For a long time we in the Senate have been discussing a series of Bills, all of which seem to be introduced on the last day of the parliamentary sittings, dealing with broadcasting and television. This Bill represents yet another step in the saga of those Bills. 
A number of specific matters are contained in this Bill of which I have indicated the Opposition approves. In the context of the debate about broadcasting and television in this country, they are rather ad hoc measures. However as I have said, they appear to me to be necessary. I have no doubt that in the context of a debate which normally flows freely in the Senate on matters of this kind when all points are taken up by different honourable senators my colleague,  Senator Ryan,  will take up in detail the points which concern the Opposition and which the Opposition approves of in connection with this Bill. There is no need for me to dwell on those details. I merely indicate that the Opposition is not opposed to the legislation. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976. Amendments on this legislation were foreshadowed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  in a joint statement on 16 August this year. The main points of the Bill, as I read it, are: Firstly, to increase the size of grants payable to eligible companies under the Act; secondly, to revamp the various elements of the Act aimed at simplifying the procedures governing the application by companies for grants and the processing of these applications by the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board; and thirdly, a change to the date on which the grant rates are set for a particular grant year. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. Indeed, it welcomes it. 
However, I will make just one or two comments which seem to me to be important. The past performance of the Government in the area of industrial research and development has been very poor. There has been a good deal of erraticism in its funding to the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board. This has had a very detrimental effect on the level of industrial research and development in Australia and has caused a general decrease in the level of industrial research and development. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  made a significant statement in his second reading speech when he said: 
However, there is strong evidence of a substantial rundown in corporate research and development activity over the past three years. This rundown has been a matter of serious concern to the Government. 
I mention that statement because it refers to a rundown in the level of industrial research and development in the past three years. The fact which the Senate and this country have to face up to is that by overseas standards the level of industrial research and development in this country has been bad over the last 20 or 30 years. The Government's statement about a rundown in the last three years is a much more serious statement than might at first have been thought. 
This country suffers from a number of very serious economic difficulties at the moment and no amount of whistling in the dark by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in so-called speeches to the nation which herald a new dawn in 1980 and beyond will make those things happen unless we come to grips with some of the issues which are, in fact, facing industry in this country. .They are the sorts of issues which I have referred to in another context today and which are the subject of the Crawford Committee review of structural adjustment in Australia, the Jackson Committee report, the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry and a wide variety of other reports which, if the Government has considered them, it has taken no action upon. 
It is only two or three weeks since we had what I regard as an important debate in the Senate on the role of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. It was a debate in which there was unanimity of opinion amongst members on both sides of the chamber who displayed an intelligent concern for the problems of scientific research and development in this country. Every one of those speakers in that debate made important points about the need for Australia to develop its own indigenous research capacity but, more importantly, for Australia to have proper arrangements for research done by a body such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to be translated into reality in terms of application by Australian industry. 
The sad fact of the matter is that in this country, with the exception of rural industries, we have enjoyed a very high level of protection for a long period of time. That protection has been good for manufacturing industries and of very doubtful value to rural industries. Whilst that protection may have been necessary and may still be necessary, in sheer economic terms, in terms of the viability of Australian industries which employ a substantial portion of the work force, and so on, it has had a very deleterious effect on the psychology of Austraiian businessmen. The fact of the matter is that research done in Australia by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or private researchers in universities or elsewhere is just not taken up to the extent to which it ought to be taken up by Australian industry, which has been very content to rely on derivative technology from overseas, to rely on derivative business practices from overseas and not to grapple with the important task of applying Australian research and development in a relevant way, particularly with regard to Australian export markets. 
These are matters of very serious concern. The matter of great regret, of course, is that the Government has again brought into the Senate on the last day of sittings a most important piece of legislation. As honourable senators wander back into this chamber from a series of social gatherings prior to the rising of the Senate, it is important to record the Opposition's concern that the subject matter of this Bill- which we were prepared to debate with great seriousness on an earlier occasion- has not been considered more seriously. If I appear to be labouring the point, I do so only because I think it is important that the Senate be regarded, as it sometimes is, as a serious and important institution and that it should not devote all of the remaining time available to it to an exchange of fraternal and convivial greetings and things of that kind, which as  Senator Withers  well knows are not the sorts of things we are paid for. I am sorry if I aroused the concern of a number of honourable senators by putting that matter in what was perhaps a slightly abrasive way. I certainly did not intend to do that. 
I have just had a message sent to me by my leader,  Senator Wriedt,  saying that it is nothing new for me to be abrasive. I mention that because there may be members of my own party listening who would approve of that course of conduct. I would like them to know that  Senator Wriedt  takes that view of me. 
The important point is that the Government is again introducing on the last day legislation which is a consequence of legislation introduced a month or so ago in relation to the CSIRO, which probably produced the best and most serious debate that the Senate has had in this session. The Opposition regrets that the Government has seen fit to take that course. We hope that on the next occasion on which the Parliament meets we will have an opportunity to debate these very important matters, which are of vital concern to Australian industry, in a more serious way.  Senator Baume  nods his head like Noddy. He was one of the contributors to the previous debate. I hope that he will make a contribution to this debate in the same spirit as in the last one. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. We hope that the pious hopes expressed in the second reading speech will be fulfilled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
How many Defence Department personnel currently work in the Austraiian Embassy in Washington. 
What other Australian Defence personnel are currently working in the United States and where are they located. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
What is the estimated cost to the Commonwealth Government of the Williams Inquiry into Education and Training. 
What is the estimated duration of the Auchmuty Inquiry into Teacher Education. 
What is the estimated cost of the Auchmuty Inquiry into Teacher Education. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) How many people received Commonwealth Teaching Service Scholarships in each year from 1975-1977 inclusive. 
Was it pointed out to those people who took up these scholarships that, while there was no legal bond attached to the scholarship, there was, however, a moral obligation involved on the part of the recipient to teach with the Commonwealth Teaching Service at the conclusion of training. 
Were these people given any guarantee that they would be granted a teaching position within the Commonwealth at the completion of their studies. 
How many people received notification this year that they could not be granted either a temporary or permanent teaching position in the Commonwealth Service in 1 979. 
How many people applied to teach in the Northern Territory on completion of their studies in 1978, and how many were refused positions. 
Did officers of the Commonwealth Teaching Service suggest to people who had been refused teaching positions that they should apply for unemployment benefits. 
Is there any moral obligation on the part of the Commonwealth Government to see that the people who accepted these scholarships in good faith and abided by the moral obligation imposed on them at the commencement of their training are found satisfactory employment within the Commonwealth Teaching Service; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
What is the mechanism by which applications for fishing rights within Australia's new 200 mile limit are dealt with. 
2 ) What criteria are used in assessing such applications. 
How many applications have been made for such rights, and how many have been approved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Did the Prime Minister state on 11 October 1978 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 1698) that the cost of study leave, including both direct and indirect costs, was about $40m per year. 
Did the Dunbar Committee state that salary and salary-related costs in 1973 were $13. 8m, and other direct costs were $ 1.58m. 
What was the basis of the Prime Minister's cost calculation, and does the Minister confirm the cost of study leave as stated by the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What amounts were allocated pursuant to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1 97 1 to the States of Victoria, Tasmania and New South Wales, respectively, in each of the following years: (a) 1976-77; (b) 1977-78; and (c) 1978-79. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I refer the Minister to the Prime Minister's undertaking, given in 1976, that the Government would observe the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 'in letter and in spirit'. I further refer the Minister to the Liberal and National Country Party policy in the 1975 and 1977 elections which states that 'the cost of safeguarding the environment from damaging intrusions by man is a cost, properly incurred in producing goods and services, which must ultimately be met by the producers of those goods and services and reflected in the price'. I ask the Minister how, having regard to those statements, he reconciles his own recent announcement as the Minister for Science and the Environment that he was sympathetic to the view that Government decisions on environmental questions are often inappropriate intervention and that business has lost out in the bargain. 
I have read this legislation, which the Opposition does not oppose. I intend to make only some very brief remarks about it. In a sense the legislation is quite complex and the complexities are not mat- .ters which I should think would be of the utmost interest to members of the Senate. However, perhaps I should outline the main purpose of the Bill and give some of the background, which may be worthwhile in an effort to keep the Senate's business going if for no other reason. 
The purpose of the Bill is to apply State and territorial criminal law to offences on Australian ships or on ships on overseas voyages, to Australian ships in foreign pons, to some offences which may be committed on foreign ships in 
Australian territorial waters and to offences in offshore areas beyond territorial waters. For the purposes of that objective the expressions 'Australian ships', 'foreign ships' and so on are denned in the legislation. I suppose it is a somewhat complex relationship. 
It is intended that not only should there be legislation of the Australian Government which applies the criminal law in the circumstances to which I have referred but also there should be legislation of the State governments and of the Northern Territory parliament. I myself am not familiar with how far that complementary legislation has been implemented except that I am aware that the state of Victoria has passed legislation of a complementary nature. I am indebted to my Tasmanian colleague,  Senator Tate,  for providing me with a copy of the Victorian legislation. 
Yes,  Senator. If  I may say so, I am indebted to you by a process, the name of which I forget. It is a sort of vicarious indebtedness. I will express it now and perhaps forget it for the remainder of the parliamentary session. As I understand the background of the matter, for some time the imperial law of the British Parliament has applied in the circumstances for which this legislation seeks to provide in relation to Australian ships and Australian territorial waters. In 1968, for example, in the case involving circumstances 22 miles off the coast of Western Australia it was found that the imperial law applied in relation to a theft of crayfish pots and as a consequence the relevant court had to apply the imperial law. I assume that that law will still apply in spite of this legislation but that in most circumstances jurisdiction will be exercised under the law of the relevant State Parliament or, where appropriate, the law of the Federal Parliament. 
Having pointed out what seem to me to be the main provisions of the Bill, I really do not wish to add any more to my comments about it. Importantly it has relevance to acts committed in the Australian fishing zone outside the territorial waters of Australia and to that extent is relevant to recent events in relation to the declaration of that zone. I suppose that to that extent it can be described as a piece of contemporary legislation whereas in all other respects it might have been legislation which could have been considered by this Parliament many years ago in relation to the fact that the imperial law applied. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It is a matter of some technical complexity but the complexities are designed to achieve the purpose to which I have referred. We commend the Bill to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Why was it necessary for the Federal Government to reimburse the University of Queensland the sum of $19,424 for the period between the announcement on 12 August 1977 of  Sir Zelman  Cowen 's appointment as GovernorGeneral and his assumption of that office on 8 December 1977- as revealed in the Estimates Explanations for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, page 39, Salaries and Salary Related Matters, Regarding the Governor-General. 
Who authorised and negotiated the payment. 
3 ) What precedents arc there for such a payment with regard to Vice-Regal appointments. 
What was the nature of the contract in force between  Sir Zelman  Cowen and his employers, the University of Queensland, at the time of the announcement of his appointment as Governor-General Designate. 
5 ) When did  Sir Zelman  Cowen resign as Vice Chancellor of the University of Queensland and when did he actually terminate his employment there. 
Did any of the $19,424 paid to the University pass directly or indirectly to the then Vice-Chancellor in the way of salary or wages during the period from 13 August 1977 to 7 December 1977; if so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) How many Telephonists in each Australian State and Territory will be retrenched in each year from 1978 to 1987 as a result of Telecom Australia's Manual Conversion Programme and Manual Assistance Centre Closure Programme. 
How many Telephonists employed by Telecom Australia in each State arid Territory nave been retrenched in each year from 1973 to 1977 as a result of a Telecom Australia's Manual Conversion Programme and Manual Assistance Closure Progamme. 
How many alternative jobs has Telecom Australia found in (a) Telecom Australia; (b) Australia Post; (c) other Government departments, statutory authorities and agencies; and (d ) private industry, for retrenched Telephonists, in each year from 1973 to 1977, in accordance with the 1974 Guidelines on Redundancy in Australian Government Employment. 
What is the nature of the alternative jobs found by Telecom Australia for retrenched Telephonists. 
What steps and procedures are followed by Telecom Australia in finding alternative employment for retrenched Telephonists in fulfilment of point 1 of the 1974 Guidelines for Redundancy in Australian Government Employment which states that 'Every effort should be made to ensure that, as far as possible, redundant employees are re-absorbed into employment without financial loss to them and with full protection of the rights they have obtained as a result of their previous employment '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) Does a portrait of  Sir John  Kerr, the former GovernorGeneral of Australia, currently grace the walls of the office of the  President  of the Senate. 
2 ) For how long has  Sir John  's portrait hung in the  President  's office. 
Is it customary for official portraits of GovernorsGeneral of Australia to be hung in the office of the  President  before going on public display; if so, how many other portraits of Australian Governors-General have been so hung. 
When will honourable senators, members of the House of Representatives, visitors to Parliament House and other art lovers be privileged to view  Sir John  's portrait in King's Hall. 
) If the portrait of  Sir John  Kerr is put on public display in the normal way in King's Hall, will special security arrangements be requested to safeguard the painting from the attentions of those whose artistic views might tend to be more influenced by the Laszlo Toth School of Criticism than by more balanced, restrained and responsible authorities. 
Will the Minister take steps to ensure that, while not exposing  Sir John's  portrait to any potential danger from vandals or over-emotional art enthusiasts, the Senate is informed of the cost of any additional security officers, devices or other arrangements which might be deemed necessary to protect the painting, other than those security measures which already apply in King's Hall. 
Will the Minister make every effort to ensure that any public funds set aside for such a purpose will not be drawn from budgets in areas of real need, such as the provision of more adequate accommodation and facilities for senators, members and their staff. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 1 9 September 1978: 
1 ) What Environmental Impact Statements have  been  prepared relating to the Jabiru uranium mining project in the Northern Territory. 
2 ) Is water being pumped from the Jabiru mining site. 
What is the radio-active contamination level of this water as compared with the permissible level. 
Is the water being pumped from the site being reticulated into the South Alligator river system. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 6 November 1 978: 
1 ) Which Government and which non-Government schools in the electoral division of Melbourne, Lalor, Batman, Gellibrand, Henty, Scullin and Wills have received Government grants during the period from 1975 to 1978. 
Where grants were made: (a) what was the amount of each grant; (b) for what purpose were the grants made; and (c) from which fund were they paid. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that one of the Federal 
Government's key advisory bodies, the Australian Manufacturing Council, has predicted that from now until 1986 Australia can expect an annual increase of 80,000 in the number of people unable to get jobs? Does the Minister agree with thU prediction? If so, does he regard it as being consistent with the Government's economic strategy? 
-On behalf of  Senator Ryan  I present the following petition from 220 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is no proven need for a satellite system in Australia and the Terrestial network should be further developed and extended. 
That a satellite system would create unwelcome dependence upon multinational telecommunications companies for the future development and operation of the Australian Communications Industry. 
That a satellite would further concentrate ownership of the media and result in large scale unemployment in many areas. 
Your petitioners strongly urge that there is the fullest debate and public discussion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education and refers to recent newspaper reports which suggest that the number of students opting for primary teacher training as a first preference for tertiary places in Victoria has dropped by approximately 70 per cent in the past three years. I ask: Have other States experienced similar drops in the election of teaching as a chosen vocation? Does the extent of the decline indicate that the prediction of the Australian Education Council of a surplus of approximately 40,000 primary school teachers by 1985 is probably wrong and should not be used as a basis for manpower predictions in the near future? I ask the Minister for his views on that. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Jurisdiction of Courts (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill. I think one can best draw attention to the appropriateness of the name of this Bill by looking at the Table of Parts and the Schedule which sets out the various miscellaneous items dealt with in this piece of legislation. I said that we are not opposed to the Bill, but perhaps this is an appropriate opportunity to qualify that by drawing attention to one or two matters which might be regarded as setbacks to the judicial system in this country when the Bill becomes law. In essence, the Bill provides for the last stage of the legislative steps which began in 1976 to remove the original jurisdiction of the High Court vested in it by statute and vest it mainly in the State and Territory Supreme Courts and in the new Federal Court of Australia in part. 
The explanatory memorandum which has been circulated with the Bill by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  summarises the purposes to which the Bill is directed: Firstly, it divests the High Court of original jurisdiction vested in it by statute, other than its original jurisdiction as a court of disputed returns under the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Secondly, it confers taxation and industrial property jurisdiction on State and Territory Supreme Courts in those tax and industrial property matters in which those courts do not at present have jurisdiction. It provides for appeals in those matters to lie to the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia. Thirdly, it confers jurisdiction on Territory Supreme Courts, within limitations, in matters in which jurisdiction is now vested in State Supreme Courts but not Territory Supreme Courts. Fourthly, it makes amendments which are consequential upon the enactment of the judiciary Amendment Act 1976 and the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976. 
I think it is fair to say that the Australian Labor Party, both in opposition and in government, has always taken the view that the High Court should not be snowed under with original jurisdiction but should be the true pinnacle of the court system in Australia, an appellate court, a constitutional court, and a court which deals with intergovernmental disputes. Consequent upon that, it has always been the attitude of the Opposition that the Federal jurisdiction should largely be vested in a Federal superior court, and to that extent a Bill was introduced in 1 975 and was defeated in the Senate. 
One can make some carping criticisms of the present legislation and of the steps which have been taken, and we hope in a sense that they are not valid or lasting criticisms. Firstly, the Government by this legislation is investing State courts with Federal jurisdiction in matters in which they are not particularly experienced. I cannot comment on the workload which State courts have throughout the Commonwealth but the vesting of this additional jurisdiction in matters to which they are not accustomed does have some element of risk attached to it for litigants- in the early stages, at least. Secondly, by vesting federal jurisdiction in State Supreme Courts the Australian Parliament in a sense loses some degree of control over the procedures and complexities of the judicial system. By arrangements made by courts in the States the State courts can in a sense alter some of the intentions of this legislation merely in procedural matters. In our view that can as a consequence and in the same sort of way lead to the fragmentation of interpretation and administrative procedures. Of course, it is hoped that all these things will not happen, but I think it is fair enough to draw them to the attention of the Senate as things which could happen and which would be undesirable. To that extent, I make these points by way of criticism. 
The Opposition also believes that there should always be an appeal to the High Court as a right in matters involving the interpretation of the Constitution. I mentioned this earlier. In November 1976, during the second reading debate about the Federal Court of Australia Bill, it was pointed out on our behalf that it would have been preferable to have a federal court dealing with all federal jurisdictions and not leave it in the situation which of necessity developed at the time of Federation of State courts exercising federal jurisdiction. Perhaps in the political climate of the time that seemed to be an outrageously positive and clear suggestion about the way things should develop. The present legislation, of course, represents a substantial compromise on that position. No criticism is offered of the sort of work which the State courts have done but we do believe that they have as much work to do as any federal jurisdiction. It could well overburden the State courts to give them an increasing amount of work in the federal jurisdiction area. No information seems to be available to the Senate- as yet at least- about the question of the workload which could be imposed on State courts. 
By and large the Opposition welcomes this Bill as a necessary tidying up of a legislative course which was embarked upon in 1976. It is, as I have pointed out, legislation which deals with a number of miscellaneous matters. They are necessary matters. As I have indicated, the Opposition has some qualifications about the practicality of some of the matters. We hope that those qualifications to which I have referred do not in fact arise and that the system works in a satisfactory manner for all concerned. Essentially we welcome the legislation because it does make the High Court the final court of appeal in all Australian matters; that is, it carries that process to a further stage by removing trial by a single judge of numerous matters which have tended to clog up the proceedings of the High Court, which should devote its energies to matters of more importance. Whilst, as I have said, we welcome the legislation, we do it with some qualifications. We do hope that those qualifications do not prove to be realities. 
My question is directed to  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister seen the report in the newspaper  Neos Kosmos  which alleges that Commonwealth Police sent 1,000 letters to Sydney Greeks seeking confidential information which would implicate Greek migrants in the alleged pension fraud? In effect it asked them to be police informers. Is this a fact and does the Minister agree that the basic rule of justice is to obtain evidence first and then make the necessary arrests later? In this particular case, if the facts are as stated, would she agree that this rule was departed from? 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act, assent to which was reported in Parliament on 16 August 1977, has yet come into operation? If not, what further consideration has been given to this legislation by the Government and what stage has that consideration reached? How many requests for exclusions of decisions of an administrative character- to use the definition contained in the Act- are being made by departments and authorities in the Government? I remind the Minister that I asked an identical question in October last year and I wonder whether there is any alteration to the Minister's answer then given? 
-The Senate is debating a motion concerning the record levels of unemployment and the failure to face the social as well as economic aspects of that problem. After listening to  Senator Walters  's speech I took her point to be that if the young people of Australia could all be motivated to be car washers there would be no further unemployment Of course the problem is more deepseated than that.  Her  explanation of the problem revolved very much around her discovery of a number of social phenomena which have happened in Australian society in the last 30 years such as the increased employment of women in the work force. Of course, the discovery of those social phenomena provides no solution to the problems about which the Senate has been talking. 
Let me deal firstly with the facts of this matter. According to the latest figures from the Commonwealth Employment Service 493,000 people in Australia are unemployed. That represents 7.5 per cent of the work force.  Senator Durack  who represents the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  referred to a number of employment training schemes. A total of $126m was allocated in the present Budget towards those schemes. That seems a fairly small amount to provide for employment training schemes when the Government yesterday announced that it would be spending $250,000 on refurbishing ministerial toilets in Melbourne. It is a relatively small sum compared with approximately $965m which is paid out annually in unemployment and sickness benefits. The level of unemployment has very real economic costs for this country. 
What I find extraordinary about the contributions to this debate are remarks such as the one made by  Senator Durack  who said that he wanted to dispel any suggestion that the Government is to blame for this state of affairs. I shall tell him why the Government is to blame for this state of affairs and remind him of a few things. The Government in which he is a Minister came to power in 1975. In 1974 the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  upbraided the previous Labor Government for not having adequate and effective manpower policiessomething we are still waiting for in 1979. The present Government came to power in 1975 with the promise, amongst other things, that there would be jobs for all people in Australia who wanted to work. In 1977 the same Prime Minister condoned the remarks that unemployment in Australia was a myth. In 1978 he orchestrated an attack on the unemployed in the form of the dole bludger syndrome. He implied that unemployment was the responsibility of dole bludgers. In 1977 the Prime Minister predicted a steady and regular fall in unemployment. In the same year we were told that if uranium mining went ahead in the Northern Territory 500,000 extra jobs would be created. 
In Question Time in the House of Representatives today the Prime Minister attacked the Opposition because it is committed to abolition of the investment allowance. He said that the Opposition would impose a capital gains tax. He made a number of other remarks which indicate that it is still the predominant concern of this Government to raise issues which have nothing to do with tackling unemployment and, in fact, fly in the face of the possibility of tackling unemployment. Previous speakers in this debate have referred to the investment allowance. There is no doubt that it has a big impact on employment, particularly in white collar industries. If we look at the question of a capital gains tax, another matter which was raised, it is quite clear that Australia is perhaps the only country in the Western countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which does not have a capital gains tax of some form. I am not quite sure why these things are regarded as reprehensible in the context of a discussion on unemployment. 
The response of this Government since 1975 has been to describe unemployment, firstly, as something it will cure and, secondly, something which is a myth anyway and is the responsibility of all sorts of people in this community but not the Government. Only last week we had the extraordinary situation of the Minister who, in 1977, was describing unemployment as a myth,  Mr Robinson,  taking two days unemployment. He was sent home in a taxi instead of an LTD vehicle. He did not like it and very hastily took up his employment again. That is the sort of response we have had from Ministers of the Government. Only five weeks ago the Australian Manufacturing Council predicted in its first annual report that from now until 1986 Australia can expect an annual increase of 80,000 in the number of people unable to get jobs. In commenting on the publication of that prediction the Melbourne  Age  had this to say: 
The production figures re-enforce the picture of recovery shown by higher levels of overtime in factories and a 9,000 increase in employment in manufacturing in the two months to November. However, the improvement should be seen in  persepctive,  in that manufacturing employment is still about 80,000 less than at the end of 1975 when  Mr Fraser  became Prime Minister. 
I think we should take heed of the warning of the Australian Manufacturing Council and take heed of the comments made by the writer in that article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age.  They are very important comments. The essential point which I want to make in the context of this debate is that it is no longer very good for a Minister of this Government to go on with the sort of glib rationalisations in which  Senator Durack  indulged today. He should remember that all the time last year while Ministers of the Government were saying that unemployment was going to be reduced, there existed a submission from the appropriate Department, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, to the Crawford committee on structural adjustment, in which it had this to say: 
The trend toward an increasingly higher level of unemployment shows no signs of abating in the near future and there are few signs which would indicate a return to pre- 1 974 levels of unemployment in the next 2-3 years. 
It went on to state: 
What can be stated with certainty is that there is currently a gross deficiency of job opportunities; a situation shown to be a good deal worse when account is taken of ABS surveys of those not in the labour force. 

 Senator Durack stood up today and said glibly, as I indicated earlier, that he would dispel any suggestion that the Government is to blame for this state of affairs. I put it to him quite sincerely that in view of statements made by bis own Prime Minister and statements made by him in this Senate, the Government is to blame because again and again the Government has, by implication, accepted responsibility for the situation.  Senator Durack  stood up today and said that the Government is not to blame. I do not really know how he can do it. He whistled away in the dark about figures concerning retail sales in December without making any analysis of the significance of those figures. I think he ought to have a look at some of the analyses that have beeen made of the figures of retail sales in December. 
As I said, he whistled away about these sorts of things in the traditional lines of the Fraser Government. He referred briefly to penalty rates and their effect on employment. I really think he ought to take that argument first of all to the Australian Medical Association and tell it that this Government is not in favour of penalty rates. That is the organisation to which the Government should start selling that argument.  Senator Durack  said that there may be some technological impact on unemployment figures. He did not say anything about the sorts of reports which the German Government and the French Government have published which indicate that the impact of technological change on unemployment and the white collar work force is likely to be about 20 per cent in the next two or three years. 
-Thank you,  Senator Thomas.  Welcome to the debate. I am very glad that you are going to participate. The most constructive point I can make in view of the debate which has taken place to date is that the Government cannot grapple with this issue if it is obsessed with all sorts of arguments which have no relevance to it. That is the form of this Government. Quite recently, in an important statement,  Mr Viner  said that our economic strategy means hardship. He did not, of course, go on to say whom that hardship would befall. 
This motion also contains a reference to the social effects of unemployment. The social effects of unemployment are generally, and always have been, debilitating and distressing but they are more distressing and debilitating to young people who are unemployed. They can induce chronic depression about the sort of society in which young people now live. The answer to that problem by Ministers in the Government is that young people are not motivated. Who is responsible for motivating young people in a society? Is the responsibility to be exercised by the car washers in this world to motivate the young people to wash cars, or is it the responsibility of the Government that young people of this country are not motivated towards the work ethic, if one likes, in the so called rugged society? 

 -Yes, Senator, exactly the same in terms of these matters of fact but not exactly the same in terms of attitudes towards them. That is the important point which I think  Senator Walters  should remember. Perhaps she will refer to it the next time she makes a contribution to a debate of this type. The social effects are very well recognised and understood, I think even by the present Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, when writing in the  Australian Quarterly  in 1975 of what he thought Government was about, stated this: 
Government is about people. Nations have no life but the life of their people. Whatever purpose I have in politics is rooted in that conviction. I reject utterly those concepts of the state that grant the state some superior status . . . 
He went on to say: 
Politicians too often forget that they are the servants and not the master - 
-Mr Fraser said that. He said: 
Politicians too often forget that they are the servants and not the master of the people they presume to govern. 
It is not so long ago that, when discussing this question of unemployment in particular, a Liberal Minister in Victoria had something very specific to say about it. When referring to the Prime Minister's attitude in relation to these matters he said: 
No one apart from Churchill or de Gaulle could be so secure as to do what Fraser 's doing. 
What does he want to be . . . the next Pope? 
This man has gone mad. 
He said that the Prime Minister had done something to the economy which, because of my limited vocabulary, I am unable to explain to the Senate. He continued: 
Unemployment was rising and  Mr Fraser  didn't care - 

 Mr Dunstan said: 
Fraser will cause a greater calamity in the next 12 months in the building industry than Gallagher has caused in the past five years. 
Over the next 12 months there 11 be more Mainlines caused by Fraser 's fiscal madness than in the whole period of the Whitlam Government. 
That Minister got sacked for saying those things as a result of a telephone call to Melbourne at the instigation of the Prime Minister. Last week another Minister who became temporarily unemployed, and to whom I referred earlier, said much the same sort of thing. He resigned and he was reinstated. The important point to remember- I think this is something which Government Ministers should remember- is that it is probably not good enough to be hell-bent in loyalty to a Prime Minister who is bent on this destructive course in relation to this particular issue of unemployment. Unemployment clearly is very low in the priorities of the Prime Minister. It is very important in his rhetoric and very low in the actions this Government has taken in relation to the matters raised in this motion. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to his answer to the question he was asked by  Senator Wriedt  in which he gave a somewhat garbled version of the circumstances in which four Ministers of the Government were removed from office. He then went on to say that the Government observed the highest standards in these matters. I ask the Minister: In what way were the highest standards manifest in the Robinson resignation and reinstatement? How is the Parliament or the public of Australia to know whether in fact high standards or the lowest standards were observed in relation to that matter? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Foreign Antitrust Judgments (Restriction of Enforcement) Bill with the normal vigour which would be manifest if it were a matter of great political and ideological importance. 
-Senator Tate says that it is, and he will indicate his position, I presume, when he speaks later in the debate. The Opposition will, however, be moving an amendment to the second reading which is designed to establish a particular consequence. I will refer to the provisions of that proposed amendment in a moment. The Senate will, I think, recall that on one previous occasion, in an atmosphere of high drama, we met here to deal with legislation relating to the action by Westinghouse Electric Corporation in the United States which was brought against 29 companies, some of them domestic United States companies, and some of them foreign companies registered in the United States. In that case Westinghouse alleged price fixing agreements contrary to the United States anti-trust laws. The price fixing agreements were alleged to have been entered into by uranium producers. Four Australian companies were concerned with that matter and I recall that one night in November 1976 the Government introduced very hasty legislation known as the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Amendment Bill. Its purpose was to deal with the particular proceedings in the United States courts to which I referred earlier. It seems that the prohibition against certain evidence being given in those proceedings in the United States does not, however, go far enough to exempt the four Australian companies, to which I have referred, from the provisions of the United States anti-trust laws. The purpose of the present Bill is to provide that certain anti-trust judgments made in United States or foreign courts- but the United States courts in particular- are not recognised or enforceable in Australia. I do not wish to delay the Senate with the circumstances in which at common law judgments of foreign courts can be enforced in the courts of Australia. There are certain very clear principles at private international law which apply to that situation. Firstly, the foreign court must have exercised a jurisdiction which was recognised by our courts. Secondly, the judgment of a foreign court must be final and conclusive before it can be registered in Australia. Thirdly, it must be for a fixed debt if it is an action in personam and so on. These principles of the common law are, in a sense, abrogated by the legislation which the Parliament is now discussing but the consequense of the legislation, as I have said, is simply to make sure that foreign judgments are not recognised and enforceable in Australia. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech of course dealt with these things at some length and gave a background explanation as to why this legislation was necessary. One matter which has concerned the Opposition is the fact that there is no provision in the Bill for the Attorney-General to give reasons to the Parliament- he is exercising a very important and sensitive function I would have thought- in relation to his non-recognition and decree that a foreign judgment should not be enforceable. He should not just gazette his determination. It is the view of the Opposition that before he exercises that function he should give reasons to the Parliament. This would have the consequence that a determination of the Attorney-General would not take effect until he had obtained the consent of both Houses of Parliament. Those are matters which are referred to in the amendment to be moved on behalf of the Opposition to the second reading of this Bill. We will move those amendments not because, as I have indicated, we are concerned about the intention of the legislation particularly, but because we feel it is important and sensitive legislation which could be improved if the amendment I have suggested were incorporated in the Bill. It would be in the interests of Parliament if the Bill were withdrawn and redrafted to incorporate that provision. 
The second matter of concern is that under the present Bill the Attorney-General has power not only to refuse to recognise a foreign judgment and to say that it would not be enforceable in Australia but also to vary the amount of that judgment if it were recognised in Australia and in so far as its enforcement by an Australian court would be allowed. We will be moving, in the Committee stage, that those provisions empowering the Attorney-General to vary the amount should be deleted. V/c do that because we think the picture should be quite clear. If the foreign court judgment is to be recognised and enforceable in Australia then we say the judgment should have full effect or no effect at all. It is for that reason that those other amendments will be moved. One suspects that the inclusion of those provisions in the Bill leaves the AttorneyGeneral of this country open to a great deal of potential criticism, having regard to the circumstances in which he might exercise his discretion to vary the amount of a judgment in favour of one company as against another. For example, there may well be circumstances where the Attorney-General exercises that discretion for the benefit of one Australian company and in another situation does not exercise his discretion but allows the full effects of a foreign judgment to be enforced in Australia. We suggest that the way in which he exercises his discretion might put him in a situation where he is potentially open to a great deal of criticism for alleged favouritism. We consider we have raised very important matters which ought to be considered by the Senate and we suggest them in terms of seeking improvements to the Bill now before the Senate. It may well be that the AttorneyGeneral although it will be a refreshing experience if he does it- can set our minds at rest about these various matters which I have raised. If he can do that I imagine that our amendment will be defeated because honourable senators on the Government side of the Senate will vote against it. If he cannot do that we suggest these matters as improvements to the legislation. 
I made a general comment that in spite of the amendments we have suggested the Opposition approves the general principles of this Bill. The whole question of the enforcement of anti-trust judgments and of anti-trust laws is a very vexed one internationally. One would like to think that we lived in a perfect world in which we in Australia fully respected the rather forceful antitrust legislation which exists in the United States and were prepared to enforce their judgments here, but of" course we do not. The practices of international trade and trading arrangements and agreements are such that it is by no means a perfect world. 
I should like to summarise an approving view of the legislation put forward at the Fifth International Trade Law Seminar, which was held in Canberra last year, in a paper by Professor Ryan of the University of Queensland. He spoke about the earlier legislation and the general principles which, in his view, would apply to the correct course to be taken by an Australian government in protecting the interests of its national companies and protecting the national interest as the Government sees it. Although quoting from Professor Ryan's paper, nonetheless I retain the qualifications I made about some of the detailed provisions of this Bill and the circumstances in which the discretion of the Attorney-General would be exercised. Professor Ryan said: 
It is suggested that while it should be 'our duty and our pleasure', as Lord Denning M.R. said, to assist the courts of the United States in anti-trust proceedings, and while we should be ready to meet with United States officials to explore means of limiting any harmful effect on their economy which may originate in this country, the limits of our ability to co-operate must be set by two principles: that we cannot co-operate where the action proposed by the United States is inconsistent with our conception of international law, nor can we permit action here which we judge to be contrary to our public interest. It is inconceivable that we would agree to allow any foreign tribunal, however distinguished, to determine whether its national interest in a matter was greater than ours, so as to bind us not to act to prevent effect being given to its decrees in this country. These are the two principles which are to guide the Attorney-General in the exercise of his powers under the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976. They are principles which it is essential to maintain. 
The Opposition does not disagree with those principles, subject to the qualifications I have made. We do not disagree with them insofar as they have similar effect in relation to the legislation now before the Senate. On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide: 
that before the Attorney-General decides not to recognise or enforce any foreign judgment he shall first give his reasons to Parliament, together with all supporting evidence obtained by the foreign court; and 
that no determination of the Attorney-General shall take effect unless the Attorney-General has first obtained the consent of both Houses of Parliament 
-During the second reading debate I foreshadowed moving two amendments relating to the discretion given the Attorney-General to vary or reduce the amount of a judgment for purposes of a specific order and the recognition of that judgment in Australia. I refer to sub-clause (2) paragraph (d) and sub-clause (3) paragraph (b) of clause 3. The amendments go to the same point; in a sense they stand together. If it would be agreeable I would move them together. 
Leave granted. 
At an earlier stage I indicated the point of the amendments and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in closing the second reading debate, kept referring to responsible Attorneys-General and what they would do. I recall that in this Parliamentcertainly when Labor was in government- it has been alleged frequently that there were Attorneys-General who were not responsible. Although I would not make such an allegation, it may be that at some other time someone would suggest that that was so. We would have the difficulty of the Attorney-General exercising his discretion, as he would be allowed to do under this Bill, and perhaps not taking all the steps that the Minister suggested a responsible AttorneyGeneral ought to take in acting under this legislation. As I recall it, the Minister said that he would consult his colleagues about these matters and take a variety of factors into account. If Parliament were sitting he would explain the situation to everyone. 
If he did so he would behave, if I might say so, in a manner totally inconsistent with that required of him by the legislation. We are not here dealing with the mythical, perfect Attorney-General but with the terms and clauses of the Bill. That is why we query the appropriateness of reposing in the Attorney-General the discretion to vary or reduce the amount of a judgment. We see that as leaving the Attorney-General very much open to the allegation that he has exercised his discretion in favour of company A, whose judgment he reduced, but not in favour of company B whose judgment he did not reduce in the same way and in accordance with the same principles. We consider that to be undesirable; that if a foreign judgment is to be enforced in Australia it should be enforced in full. The decision whether it should be enforced should be made on the basis of the judgment given by the foreign court. It should not be possible for that judgment to be varied by the Attorney-General of this country in the way suggested in the two clauses referred to. Accordingly, I move: 
You are exercising your discretion against me- on balance. 
On the other hand, the Government felt that there might not be the objection to an ordinary damages judgment that there may be to a treble damages judgment. That might also be of importance in relation to achieving comity with the United States. In the light of the discussions that we have had, the United States authorities may be prepared to accept more readily that treble damages judgments not be enforced. They would be less likely to object if part of the judgment- perhaps more properly obtainedwas in fact enforceable. 
I have already referred to the way in which I believe a government or its Attorney-General would react if Parliament expressed a view contrary to that expressed in the order. I do not propose to go over that ground again and, although giving due recognition to the merit of the proposed amendments, believe that on balance I must come down to the view that the Government must oppose them. 
You never come down my side. 
-The Family Law Amendment Bill 1978 seeks to amend the Family Law Act. It does not deal with a matter which is, in a sense, controversial on party lines. The fact that I speak first for the Opposition should not be interpreted as my putting an Opposition position in relation to this amending Bill. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in introducing this Bill and in a series of subsequent private discussions, has indicated that there are a number of amendments which might be regarded as being of a technical nature and which, in part at least, stem from the recommendations of the Family Law Council. 
The major amendment, however, relates to the establishment of the Institute of Family Studies which was referred to in the original Family Law Act. The Attorney-General, in his second reading speech, has given a lot of time to explaining to the Senate the difficulties the Government has encountered in establishing that Institute. The Act establishes the Institute as a national research and educational body with the following objectives: 
to promote, by the encouragement and co-ordination of research and other appropriate means, the identification of, and development of understanding of, the factors affecting marital and family stability in Australia, with the object of promoting the protection of the family as the natural and fundamental group unit in society; and 
to advise and assist the Attorney-General in relation to the making of grants, out of moneys available under appropriations made by the Parliament, for purposes related to the functions of the Institute and the supervising of the employment of grants so made. 
Those are the objectives as set out in respect of the Institute. One hopes that it will be able to play a positive role in developing an understanding of what makes for satisfactory family relationships or, to use a somewhat tarnished expression, what makes for good marriages as distinct from bad ones. At present the emphasis appears to be on what makes marriages break down. To that extent it is much more important that a more positive role is emphasised in connection with this legislation and the activities of the Institute. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech said that the amendments make no changes of principle to the Act. They generally correct defects or otherwise contribute to the smoother administration of the Act according to its existing principles. Speaking as an individual senator, I am very grateful for that assurance. I am concerned that the principles underlying the Family Law Act which seem to me to be sound should be maintained. Because the amendments do not alter those principles but rather intrude into the legislation a more positive aspect by establishing the Institute and spelling out its functions, one can hope that the sorry situation regarding marital breakdown will be improved to some extent by the activities of a body such as this. 
There are certain assumptions in the terminology of the Bill in setting out the objectives of the Institute which we should be examining in a broader sense. To be more specific, there is a reference to the protection of the family as the natural and fundamental group unit in society. I think that there are some reasons for querying whether we are stuck with the notion of the nuclear family as the most natural and desirable group unit. Perhaps the Institute should explore a great variety of factors which bear on the desirability of the nuclear family which I think most historians and sociologists would say is a sort of bastard child of the industrial revolution. I think it would be desirable if in many of our policies relating to social issues more consideration were given to the situation which exists in more primitive societies than ours in which much more care and attention is given to the wider ramifications of family relationships than in the typical Australian family as it is sometimes described with a husband, a wife, two children and the television set. The point I am seeking to make is a serious one. The organisation and formulation of government policies- I make this comment irrespective of party lines- which bear on the family situation are very much structured towards encouraging the continuance of the nuclear family and against the possibility of encouraging wider and more supportive relationships in families which involve more than just a husband, a wife and two children. 
I refer as an example to the housing policy in this country which seems to be singularly inflexible in the emphasis which is placed on accommodation for that group unit. That is simply one example of the situation about which I am concerned. Of course, there are plenty of others. I have implied that the objectives of the Institute are slightly narrower than they ought to be. I also hope that in carrying out its objectives the Institute will have regard to many of the matters raised in the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships, which, unfortunately, has not been a matter of debate in the Senate. The report was tabled and roundly condemned in the atmosphere of political expediency which existed at the time. 
-Is 'squarely' the right word? 
-Perhaps it was narrowly condemned in an atmosphere of political expediency. Whether one likes the findings and the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships or not, the report raised fundamental issues which should be of concern to the Senate, the Parliament and Australian society as a whole. I would hope that the matters it raised would be of great concern to a body such as the Institute established by this legislation. If it is to operate in vacuo, without consideration of some of the broader social factors raised by the Royal Commission the Institute will not do justice to itself, society and the Parliament which, by legislation, has created it. 
I now refer to one other very important aspect of this Bill which seeks to extend the range of circumstances in which a court can order the parties to confer with a counsellor or order a counsellor to report to it on the welfare of children. I think that this is to be commended given the importance which must be attached to the family unit. I am sure that a number of senators have had the opportunity of visiting family courts in their respective States or elsewhere. I think that they would almost universally approve of the work which counsellors are doing in those courts. Frequently there are too few counsellors and the facilities which they have are not as adequate as they ought to be. From the time of the introduction of the Family Law Bill into the Senate and throughout the discussions of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the clauses of the Family Law Bill, there was great concern and emphasis that the counselling procedures offered by the courts should be as informal and as adequate as possible. Many of the criticisms and frictions which have arisen in relation to the operation of the Family Law Act have done so from difficulties over maintenance and custody matters which might have been resolved by counselling. It is unfortunate that much of that criticism has developed into criticism of the substantive grounds under the Family Law Act on which marriages are dissolved. 
A further major point of the legislation is that it also slightly extends the authority of the courts to set aside or discharge property settlements or maintenance orders under the Act if there has been a miscarriage of justice in the original settlement. What does one say about that except that one hopes that that would facilitate the just operation of the provisions of the Act and that there will be an improvement in the existing situation. I am not sure whether the jurisdictional position in relation to property and maintenance settlements has been resolved satisfactorily. At this stage, I think not. Anything which would facilitate the making of adequate settlements in relation to property or maintenance matters is to be encouraged and commended. 
As I indicated earlier, the Bill also contains a number of what I understand are machinery amendments which are described as being of a technical nature. They do not alter the spirit of the Bill. It is the spirit of the Bill about which I am concerned because for some reasons- I think it may be my fault as much as the Minister's fault- I did not see the last batch of technical amendments until a short time ago. They appear to me to be of that character and I do not wish to advance any opposition to them. What I am concerned about is that the spirit of the original family law legislation should stand and that the more social aspects of the legislation and the aspects of the legislation which affects society as a whole should be constantly and more frequently examined in a constructive way. Thousands upon thousands of Australians are affected by the provisions of this Act. One would hope that in years to come thousands upon thousands of Australians will benefit from the deliberations of the Institute of Family Studies. I express the hope that its deliberations will be carried out in as broad and as inquiring a spirit as possible with a view to grappling with some of the matters which I raised earlier in my remarks. In general terms, I commend the Bill to the Senate and wish the Institute a speedy and successful establishment. 
I also direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the answers that he gave on Thursday of last week regarding the Government's standards of ministerial propriety and to his following statement: 

 Senator Withers was involved in a royal commission. Arising out of the commission's findings the Prime Minister saw fit to relieve  Senator Withers  of his ministry. 
Was the finding of the royal commission decisive in the dismissal of  Senator Withers  or were there any other reasons for this dismissal? Further, is it correct to say that the decision to remove  Senator Withers  was exclusively a decision of the Prime Minister or was it made by a small and carefully chosen group of Ministers of whom  Senator Carrick,  now Leader of the Government in the Senate, was one? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I refer him to a statement reported to have been made late last year by the Queensland Minister for Education in which he said that static Commonwealth funding for the triennum 1979-81 will cause a halt in progress towards bringing the State's participation rates in tertiary education up to the national average. Is it correct that widely differing participation rates in tertiary education exist between the various States of Australia? If so, does the nogrowth decision with respect to universities and colleges of advanced education made in 1976 and 1977 mean that differing participation rates between States will be perpetuated and that the inequality of access of Australians to tertiary education will remain? Has the Government received any advice from the Tertiary Education Commission on this matter? If so, what is the effect of that advice? 
-As I understand it, the Senate is debating a motion moved by  Senator Walsh  which relates to 'the failure of the Government to adequately supervise and ensure the proper administration and distribution of finance to rural industry'.  Senator Walsh  made it quite clear that he was talking about money which is available to rural finance bodies in the States under the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act. 
-I understand the technical point that  Senator Baume  is taking. The point I am seeking to make is that  Senator Walsh  made it quite clear that that was what he was talking about. One way of avoiding the substance of somebody's argument is to ignore it altogether.  Senator Webster  did an exemplary job of that, which is not surprising. In the whole time I have been here I have never heard him deal with an argument which has been put to him. But  Senator Thomas  surprised me because I have at times seen him courageously trying to grapple with arguments which have been put to him. If we were having a debate about who in this Parliament was best for rural communities, then some of the things which  Senator Thomas  went on about would have to be qualified to some degree. 
I might just alert  Senator Thomas  to some facts to which he did not advert. For instance, he did not advert to the fact that since last July the petrol bill of rural communities in this country has risen by $170m. I remind him that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty, which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  promised to maintain, has been halved under this Government. I also remind him that the net Federal Government payments to agriculture in 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976 totalled $405m. From 1976-77 to the present payments to agriculture have totalled $167m. Those figures are to be found in the 1978-79 Budget papers. I remind  Senator Thomas  that the average income per farm in Australia in 1973 to 1976 was $18,1 18, and in 1976-77 and 1977-78 it was $15,143. The situation in the rural communities has changed quite drastically this year for a variety of reasons, particularly because of the good seasons. I am happy to see that  Senator Thomas  does not attribute the good seasons to the present Government. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were the Ayatollah Khomeini he might be able to do that, but not even  Senator Thomas  when speaking of the Prime Minister has suggested that he has that capability. The fact of the matter is that those considerations have not been taken into account at all by Setator Thomas. 
This issue was first raised in the House of Representatives when questions were asked first of ali of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  On 1 March 1979 he was asked about moneys made available for rural adjustment. In response to that question he outlined a scheme of rural adjustment which he said was one of the finest in the world- a matter of great pride, one would assume, for the Minister for Primary Industry- and outlined what particular schemes did for farmers in this country. He made the point that there was a debt adjustment component, a component for those who were financially disadvantaged either by markets or by seasons. He stated that there was a farm build-up component in respect of farmers who were seeking to increase the size of their holding. The third component was to help disadvantaged farmers out of the industry altogether. They were the three things that the Minister for Primary Industry boasted about as being the successes of the scheme of Commonwealth finance for rural adjustment. 
When the Prime Minister was asked subsequently whether a loan had been made available to the Beggs family in Victoria under the flow through provisions of the scheme, he said that the matter had been determined by the Rural Finance Commission of Victoria according to its own judgment and in accordance with its own circumstances. The questions asked by members of this Parliament are legitimate because members have to be concerned- and are properly concerned- about where the taxpayers' money goes. Members of this Parliament are entitled to ensure that moneys are not wasted in a scheme which in the words of the Minister for Primary Industry, purports to be designed primarily to help those farmers who are disadvantaged. Members of Parliament are entitled to ask whether the taxpayers' money allotted for that purpose is disposed of with equity in the rural community. Of the $20 m expended by the Victorian Rural Finance Commission last year, in respect of which its report is available, $ 10.1m came from Commonwealth funds. That is the important point about the role of this Parliament, in the absence of the Victorian Parliament sitting in trying to find out about these matters. 
The other relevant matter is the persistent evasion by Government Ministers of questions which were raised in 1975 by the joint party committee report on the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. There have been quite consistent evasions about that issue and the matter has been referred to yet another committee. It has been only in the last week, when Government Ministers have begun to realise the implications of their own policy on death duties and probate duties and they have begun to realise the implications of their own rhetoric about tax avoidance, that we have begun to get a situation where the Prime Minister, for example, has said to the people of this country that schemes such as family trusts are not appropriate for a person in the position of Prime Minister, or appropriate for a person in the Ministry of the present Government who is responsible for spending and directing the means of expenditure of Commonwealth money which is collected in the form of tax. 
The Opposition is not alleging any illegality at all in relation to this matter in the strict sense of the word illegality, but it is concerned about a number of things which clearly emerge from the situation that has now become known as the Beggs loan affair'. The Opposition is not concerned about the Beggs family. I have seen in the newspapers that members of the Beggs family have described themselves as plain country folk. I am sure that they are. No charge can be levelled against persons who are recipients of loans. They are to be congratulated on getting them. The real point is not the Beggs family itself but the circumstances in which Commonwealth money has been administered. There seems to us to have been a misapplication of policy. 
Perhaps there should be a tighter means test. Commissions like the Victorian Rural Finance Commission should satisfy themselves about the needs of applicants for loans having in mind the prime purposes of the legislation which have been stated by the Minister for Primary Industry and others. As an example, a question was asked of the Minister for Primary Industry yesterday in the House of Representatives about this matter. Now alert to the situation, he said: 'Well, look, if you have any complaints about this, you go the Auditor-General'. Of course, that is not the complaint. The Minister is responsible for the administration of this Act. He is responsible for policy on these matters and it is not a question of suggesting that someone was guilty of some financially improper course in this particular matter. 
I think it is true to say that the Opposition is concerned about a number of artifices that seemed to be resorted to in this matter about which there has been no satisfactory explanation. The first matter of concern is the giving of two very large loans, $50,000 each, on the one day in a way which appears to be a method of getting around the requirement that the Treasurer of the particular State approve any loan in excess of $50,000. Two loans of $50,000 were secured on the one day at an interest rate which, as other honourable senators have pointed out, is lower than any other person is likely to be able to obtain. Of course, the important point about that is that in a sense it is related to the question of the credibility of the Premier of Victoria, a Premier who in a radio program only four days ago had no recollection of signing a document a week before that. 
That does raise the question of the application of Commonwealth funds in the State of Victoria. What is happening to Commonwealth funds if the Treasurer of a State does not remember signing a document and categorically denies any association with people with whom he is clearly associated? What is happening with Commonwealth funds in Victoria, whether they be rural finance funds or other funds where the Treasurer is in that state of mind? When one looks at the situation as has been reported in a variety of radio and television programs, it can be seen quite clearly that the family in question was an exception in that district which had suffered from bushfires. MosT of the other land owners in the district were adequately compensated by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria and no additional loans were required. Of course, compensation means compensation for loss. The compensation arose from legal action against the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. One can only presume that the compensation provided was adequate for the purposes of that loss. We suggest, quite frankly, that some of the money which was paid to this family was used to pay out a mortgage to a company called Ambulando Nominees, which is apparently a finance company carried on by a firm of solicitors in Melbourne in which  Mr Strachan,  one of the joint owners or tenants in common of the land in question, was in fact a partner. So,  Mr Strachan  is not only one of the recipients of the loan but it seems that he also was paid out by government money that was made available at a lower interest rate than that payable under the previous mortgage to Ambulando Nominees. So, there was a strange circumstance which we felt a responsible Minister in his place might have dealt with instead of rambling on about other matters which he seemed to think were relevant to the subject of this debate. 
It is thought by the Opposition- and I think correctly- that the money was in fact for debt reconstruction and to pay out that previous mortgage. One of the purposes of the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act 1976 is debt reconstruction. As that is so, it seems that the people who received this loan, the Beggs family, were clearly ineligible under the Rural Adjustment Scheme on at least two grounds, and perhaps three grounds if they received compensation from the State Electricity Commission. Those two or three grounds are set out in the schedule to the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act. As I have little time available, I invite honourable senators on the Government side to have a look at that Act when they are concerned about the particular questions which I have raised. 
Finally, I must say on behalf of the Opposition that we strongly endorse fire relief and other relief for farmers who are in need of special financial assistance but particularly for poorer farmers in this community who are most in need of it. We are not concerned to attack people who are victims of bushfires, floods or anything else. We are concerned to see that relief is applied with equity and fairness. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister for Education to the comments on page 190 of the Tertiary Education Commission's last report expressing concern that enrolments in para-professional and technical courses in the predominantly State-funded technical and further education sector have fallen every year since 1974 in Queensland, whereas in the same State there has been a rapid growth in similar courses at the associate diploma level in colleges of advanced education which are fully funded by the Federal Government. What is the reason for this? Does it represent an attempt by the Queensland Government to divert students into colleges of advanced education and thus obtain Federal funding, denying the Queensland people the full range of educational opportunities available through technical and further education? 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
Inadequacies and injustices in the system of student allowances. 
This motion means that today honourable senators will be talking about student allowances. The Opposition raises this matter now because this week, which is the start of the academic year for most tertiary education institutions, some 200,000 students who are theoretically eligible for allowances will be returning to universities and other tertiary institutions throughout Australia. The points which the Opposition feels it is appropriate to make at this time relate to the inadequacy of allowances made available under various schemes, but particularly under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. The Opposition will also make reference to the fact that the system of tertiary allowances is riddled with discrepancies and anomalies, and that the operation of the system suffers from very severe bureaucratic rigidities which make it time for a review of the way in which the current system of student allowances is operating. 
In regard to the position of the Government on this matter, I refer the Senate to a statement made by  Senator Carrick  as Minister for Education on 6 October 1976 in which he said, when referring to student assistance:   the Government . . . emphasises that the main thrust of such assistance should be towards the most needy. 
I wish to refer briefly to that statement of the Minister in the context of the information which is available about the socio-economic situation of tertiary students in Australia. The only official study made of the socio-economic composition of the tertiary student body in Australia was undertaken jointly by the Department of Education and the Australian Union of Students in 1974. It had the support and sanction of the Australian Government. That survey revealed something which I suppose is now common knowledge, that is, that the main sources of income for full time tertiary students are, firstly, grants or allowances of the type to which we will be referring in the context of this discussion; secondly, parental support; and, thirdly, paid work. The 1974 survey confirmed earlier findings that over 50 per cent of university students in Australia are drawn from families where the father has a professional occupation. It is in that context that I mention the comment of the Minister that the main thrust of student assistance should be towards the most needy. 
Another important and interesting point which emerged from that survey in 1974 was that students from low income backgrounds who reached tertiary education generally nominated teaching as their career choice. I appreciate that a variety of factors now operate make students less likely to choose teaching as their career. In 1974 and for at least two years afterwards many certainly made that choice, and the most logical and reasonable explanation for it is that teaching studentships, as they were then offered by State government, and are still offered in some States generally offered a student more income to enable that student to undertake tertiary education. It is in that context thai the relevance of the current level of allowance comes into question. 
I said that I wanted to refer to the Government's position in relation to student allowances. In addition to the comment made by  Senator Carrick  about the thrust of student assistance in 1976, it is my understanding that the Government also currently endorses the following principle stated by the Williams Committee regarding TEAS: 
The Committee has taken the view that the public purse should not be expected to bear the total costs of tertiary education. In view of the significant benefits which generally accrue to the individual from such education, the student and/or his family should bear pan of these cost. The purpose  of TEAS is seen as providing a subsidy to those students and their families who are unable or whom it would be unreasonable to expect to provide all of the costs normally expected to come from sources other than the public purse. The level of subsidy provided should cover only the basic needs of students and their dependants. 
I want to assess that statement of what I believe to be still the Government's position in relation to student allowances in the light of a number of points made in the statement itself, and also in the light of the 1974 survey finding that some 50 per cent of the Australian student population in universities came from families with professional backgrounds. That statement by the Williams Committee, which I believe to be endorsed by the Government, refers to a minimum level of subsidy providing basic needs. In the course of my remarks I want to examine whether in any sense it can be said that student allowances currently cater for basic needs. 
The second purpose of TEAS stated in the comment to which I referred was that it was intended to subsidise those students of families who are unable to provide all of the costs normally expected to come from sources other than the public purse. If one looks first of all at the comment of  Senator Carrick  about the direction of student assistance, and secondly at the comments from the Williams Committee report, in the light of the current situation, in my view some very serious inadequacies and anomalies emerge. 
Let me first of all deal with the rates of student allowances payable under TEAS. The maximum TEAS rate today is $45.15, less than the dole by something like $8, the current rate of unemployment benefit being $53.20. The point I make about that is that if one looks at that current single rate firstly in the light of surveys which have been done in relation to that rate and secondly in the light of the Henderson poverty inquiry, then the deficiencies become quite apparent. If one looks at the only survey which has been done on the efficacy of TEAS rates, which was a survey done by the Student Financial Aid Office of the University of Melbourne in August 1978 - 
-I am sorry to have to advise the honourable senator that it did not. This has nothing to do with AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd- I did not want to send the honourable senator out of his brain again. 
The survey was in fact undertaken by an officer of the University of Melbourne. In the absence of an independent assessment by someone like the honourable senator, one has to rely on this sort of information. First of all, dealing with students sharing a flat or house away from home, the findings of that survey in Melbourne were that the establishment costs of setting up a home, buying books and items of that kind totalled $550. Assessing weekly costs at something like $60, which is all itemised in a document which I propose to seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  in a moment, the total costs for a student sharing a flat or house away from home were estimated by this survey to be $3,670. The maximum TEAS allowance payable in respect of such a student was $2,348, some $ 1 ,300 less than the estimate in this survey of the requirements of the student. 
Secondly, the survey dealt with students living in a residential college. The total costs, including establishment costs of college fees, books, enrolment fees, amenities and service fees of the university came to $1,972. The average cost of accommodation at a residential college of a university is $1,600 and the other costs are the ncessary fees which a student has to pay in order to enter a university and to set up, as it were. The weekly costs were estimated at $52, compared with $60 for the student sharing accommodation. The total costs of a student living in a residential college were assessed at $3,012, compared with the maximum TEAS allowance of $2,348. One can draw from those figures, first of all, the fact that a benefit probably flows to a student who lives in a residential college because the discrepancy between the cost of living and the TEAS allowance for that student is less than it is for the student sharing a flat or house away from home. 
The third category which was dealt with in the survey was that of students living at home. Then, in 1978, the establishment costs of those students totalled $272, being amenities and services fees, books and stationery, and the weekly costs were assessed at $40. The total costs of a student in that position were $2,352. The maximum TEAS allowance for a student living at home was $1,523.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of the findings of that survey. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SURVEY UNDERTAKEN BY MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY'S STUDENT FINANCIAL AID OFFICE, AUGUST 1978. 
. Students sharing flat or house away from home. 

<graphic href="080232197903082_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. I was making the point that, as far as I am aware, that is the only survey which has been compiled by a university and which indicates some of the discrepancies between the positions of students in each of those three categories and the maximum TEAS allowance available to them. It is perhaps not without significance, as the Minister probably knows, that Melbourne University has, consequent I understand upon this survey, organised next month in Melbourne a conference on the adequacy of and anomalies associated with TEAS allowances. 
The first point I wanted to make related to the survey of the adequacy of allowances. I referred to the maximum rate for TEAS. One of the factors to which I drew attention earlier was that the maximum rate was, of course, less than the dole. I put it to the Senate quite seriously that this affects students and particularly those students or prospective students who are still dependent upon their parents and who come from low income families. There is a nice judgment to be made in certain circumstances as to whether one takes up tertiary education in the current unemployment situation or whether one, for example, is attracted by higher allowances which are paid to people for doing nothing. 
-I am not saying that, senator. I said there was a nice judgment to be made in certain economic circumstances. 
I am not saying it is a matter of general judgment. I said that in particular economic circumstances there might be a nice judgment to be made which reflects on this level of allowance. That is the simple point I am making. I do not see why a person who undertakes tertiary education in circumstances in which there may be considerable poverty in the family should receive less than his brother, for example, who is on the dole. It is as simple as that. 
I want to refer in the context of that comment to one or two other matters. Firstly students are classed for the purposes of TEAS allowances as fixed income earners and they are to that extent greatly disadvantaged by inflation. There is not, and never has been, a twice yearly adjustment of TEAS rates in accordance with the consumer price index as there was with pensions and other social security benefits and, indeed, as there is on an annual basis now with pensions and other social security benefits. A student's income to that extent is almost continually eroded, apart from an increase, for example, in the last Budget which was set off by an adjustment to the family allowance in respect of students living at home. 
The Williams Committee adverted to this problem in its recommendations about TEAS and recommended that the student allowances should be adjusted twice a year in accordance with a student allowance adjustment index. This, of course, has not been done by the present Government. There is no system of regular adjustment, and changes are made really as a result of more or less political pressure at Budget time when student bodies have to clamour with all the other groups which approach a government for special attention. The TEAS allowance has never been properly indexed. It is our view that it should be indexed because it falls into much the same category as those other pensions and allowances which are indexed. 
I referred to the comparison of the current rates of TEAS with the survey conducted by Melbourne University. The second comparison I wanted to make in relation to rates was with Professor Henderson's poverty line for December 1978. I know it is about as popular and as fashionable with this Government to talk about the poverty line as it was to talk to nineteenth century shipowners about the Plimsoll line. That subject was not a highly favoured topic of conversation among crooked shipowners in the early years of the nineteenth century. Likewise, it is not fashionable with this Government, it seems, to talk about the poverty line. 

 - Senator, you are scraping the barrel today. You must have had a bad night. The single working person poverty line figure established by the Henderson unit in December 1978 was $66.53. For a person not working it was $53.78. The TEAS maximum allowance for an independent student was $45.15 at the same time- again, a considerable discrepancy. I remind the Senate of the comments by the Minister, that the purpose of student allowances is basically to help those most in need. I again remind the Senate of the fact that the socioeconomic population of universities in particular is very much divided between those who come from the professional income classes and those who do not. The level of change of socioeconomic participation rates in Australian society in universities in the last 10 years is something which we can all deplore. Quite frankly, all available evidence suggests that initiatives taken by the Labor Government to try to affect those socio-economic participations rates in universities such as the abolition of fees, have not had the desired and intended effect. I have addressed my remarks first to the question of inadequacies in rates of student allowances. I turn now to another topic, the application of the means test. 
The basic assumption of the means testing procedure is that parental assistance is automatically forthcoming to a large group of students. This is not always the case. I do not offer this in some form of partisan political criticism of this Government; it is a difficulty with which a government of any persuasion would have to grapple. I believe there are a number of situations where the level of assistance made available to students is insufficient to support the students, even if parental assistance of some kind is forthcoming. The legal adult age is 18 but under TEAS one is not regarded as an independent adult until one reaches 25 years of age. It is a very anomalous period for students between 1 8 and 25, where the vast bulk of the student population is situated in age terms. For example, some individual students who are classed by the Department as dependent students have a life style which would clearly indicate that they are independent. Accordingly, they suffer real hardship. There are a number of students under the age of 25 years who, for a great variety of reasons, cannot live at home because of parental pressures or other problems in the family. Yet the level of their assistance is still determined by their parents' income. Whatever one thinks about the desirability of that or otherwise, it is a very real problem for a lot of young people who cannot live at home but who are still regarded by the Department as dependants and not eligible for the full allowance. 
There is no provision in the present TEAS scheme for officers of the Department to determine in an adequate way what are needy cases. Many senators will be familiar with the delays which take place in trying to get these problems dealt with. The appeals system which does exist is a very lengthy, drawn out process. I believe they are important points in relation to the application of the means test. 
The other important point in relation to that matter is means testing of a spouse's income. That is certainly an additional area of concern to many people. I refer the Senate to an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 12 April 1978, entitled 'Marrying for Money and an Education' and which dealt with this matter. The burden of that article was to highlight the financial plight of tertiary students and the extent to which some students are prepared to go in order to become eligible for the maximum TEAS allowance. If students qualify for the married student allowance of $45.15 a week, each partner receives that sum. In effect on that basis the couple receives a double income. 
The means testing of a spouse's income is governed in part by regulation 41 (5) of the Student Assistance Act which provides that the spouse allowance of $31.40 a week is payable only in respect of those weeks in which a spouse has no income at all. For example, dividend income in excess of $300 is taken into account as income for each week of the year and this prohibits the payment of the spouse allowance to the grantee. In effect, this means that a student whose wife receives $7 a week in interest or dividend payments loses $3 1.40 for each week of the year. Therefore, the couple is worse off than it would be if the spouse received no interest or dividend income at all. 
-That may be so, but is the honourable senator suggesting that one of the options would be to get rid of the dividend income altogether? 
-I am not quite clear what the honourable senator is suggesting. Perhaps he can tell me what he is suggesting when he makes his speech later in the debate. I am seriously making the point that there are difficulties for people in this situation and there are difficulties in terms of a wife's independent income. Some sneaky adjustment can be made, but that will not be in accordance with the strict letter of the law. Those are some of the problems which we see as being associated with the means test provisions. 
I want to deal very quickly with some of the other anomalies which are clearly present in the TEAS scheme. The first is that to qualify for the living away from home rate allowance because of difficult conditions at home- the maximum rate is also $45. 1 5- the student must verify his or her claim with a signed statement of the problems which exist at home and include not only a statutory declaration from two people but also a detailed floor plan of the family home. That is what is necessary to qualify for an allowance in circumstances in which a student is independent and has to live away from home. The family law courts in this country ceased to request that sort of information four years ago. They no longer have a requirement to provide that sort of information about a domestic situation. That seems to me to be a serious anomaly which probably in many social and family situations represents a considerable disincentive for students to apply for the allowance. In this sense, it can be a discriminatory provision. It is an anomaly which should be looked at and rectified if possible. Once again, I do not say this in any harsh spirit of criticism, because the details of these matters are very difficult. What we are saying in essence is that it is time the TEAS scheme was reviewed in regard to these matters, including the allowance rates, which have been the subject of continuing concern. 
Another area of anomaly relates to the assumed capacity of middle income families to contribute to their children's tertiary education. It is generally assumed that people in the middle income bracket can easily afford to pay for part of their children's education and living costs. However, I put it to the Senate that in many cases, because of various matters relating to lifestyle, size of family and things of that kind, it is not safe to make that sort of assumption. In many respects, some middle income earners are worse off than families on low incomes in relation to their capacity to support a student. I support that view by making the point that usually students who come from low income families receive the full TEAS allowance. Students from the middle income bracket families are often means tested out of an allowance altogether. If they are not, they are means tested to such an extent that they receive only a minimal allowance. The point I am making is that the cut-off point for the means test should be looked at. The assumption that parental assistance will be forthcoming, given the means test procedure, is often false. 
It is said continually that middle income groups are hardest hit by the present taxation scales. In this respect, the gross income of a middle income family, even after the family adjustment, is certainly not a measure of its capacity to pay. I remind the Minister and the Senate that the Williams Committee recommended that the actual income tax paid should be deducted from the gross family income in applying the means test. Perhaps that is not the right measure, but it is different from taking into account only the gross income of a middle income family. This recommendation has not been pursued by the Government and apparently is not accepted by it. 
I wanted to deal with one other aspect of student allowances or awards. I refer to Commonwealth post-graduate awards. I do not have time to do that, but I refer the Minister and the Senate to the paper of the Australian ViceChancellors Committee on the taxation of postgraduate awards in which the vice-chancellors pointed to numerous anomalies- Commonwealth awards being taxed and private awards not being taxed, and things of this kind. They suggested the following courses of action: Repeal the present legislation and revert to the previous position; means test post-graduate awards; tax all post-graduate awards; continue to tax Commonwealth post-graduate awards but adjust the amount of allowance; and a combination of all or any of these possibilities. I mention these suggestions in the limited time which I have available. They were made constructively by the Vice-Chancellors Committee and they seem to me, in a sense, to imply what I think is wrong with the present system of Commonwealth post-graduate awards. I commend to the Senate and those people who are interested in this subject a reading of the Vice-Chancellors Committee report. I am indebted to the Senate and to you,  Mr Deputy President,  for your oneminute indulgence. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, although we are not entirely happy about the generosity of its provisions. The purpose of the Bill was stated by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech in the following terms: 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the proceeds from commercialisation of activities conducted under the National Fitness Act to be paid into the National Fitness Trust Fund. In particular, the Bill will enable proceeds from the commercialisation of the national' Life. Be in it 'program to be paid into that Fund. 
The important point about that statement which was supported by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  in his second reading speech in the House of Representatives is that it does involve the commercialisation of the 'Life. Be in it' campaign and, in a sense, the commercialisation of national fitness in this country. In the House of Representatives the Minister for Home Affairs stated: 
The 'Life. Be in it' philosophy is to encourage Australians to become more active. The campaign stresses the enjoyment and benefit to be gained from recreation. The long term objectives of the campaign are to change Australia's attitudes and behaviour towards sport, fitness and recreation. 
The present Bill seeks to grant $600,000 a year over three years  to the  National Fitness Trust Fund to promote the 'Life. Be in it' campaign. This totals $1.8m for the promotion of national fitness in Australia. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. It supports the Government's program; but it has to say, reluctantly, that the program does not go far enough. The 'Life. Be in it' campaign is a brilliant concept in terms of design and commercial advertising. But the art is the art of the designer and not the art of the sportsman. It is brilliant, I suppose, in that it represents a notion which is attractive to everybody, a notion of full participation in all of life's pleasures, particularly the physical pleasures. To that extent it can be contrasted with another view of life which, I suppose, is brilliantly summarised by Dorothy Parker in her little poem  Resume,  in which she says: 
Razors pain you; Rivers are damp; Acids stain you; And drugs cause cramp. Guns  aren  't lawful; Nooses give; Gas smells awful; You might as well live. 
That is a very different philosophy of the reasons for being alive. 
It is very sombre, yes, but it is a philosophy which has its attractions, as the honourable senator must admit. But it is very sombre compared with the notion put forward in the 'Life. Be in it' campaign. 
We in Australia have now reached the point where governments have to spend admittedly limited funds on programs such as 'Life. Be in it' as a sort of artificial commercial stimulus to what ought to be a national activity- what in years gone by was characterised in the popular song  Doin' What Comes Natur'lly.  I think when we are confronted with this situation of having to spend money on a commercial program to encourage people into these sorts of activities, it is perhaps time for a nostalgic sigh for the glories of the years gone by, time to ponder on the decline in the rugged society of homo Australis and time to examine some of the assumptions upon which our society operates. It is my purpose in this debate to try to make some contribution about those important issues. No one in the Senate, I would imagine, would argue about the importance of physical fitness. Norman Douglas in his great poem  Siren Land,  put it this way: 
There is a beauty of fitness which no art can enhance. 
Perhaps I could translate that noble message into commercial terms for the benefit of Government senators. Some of the less honourable ones would probably remember the famous student song called  Lillian,  which, as I recall, begins: 
Lil was a girl, Lil was a beauty She lived in a house of  ill-reputee  She drank too deep of the demon rum She smoked hashish and op-i-um 
It does a bit. Perhaps the honourable senator could commend it to Qantas. He is pretty good on Qantas advertisements. The last two lines of that famous song  Lillian  are: 
The moral of the tale of Lil and her sins Whatever your line of business, fitness wins. 
I mention that for the benefit of Government senators, obsessed as they are with a line of business, and I would make the comment in passing that one suspects that the considerable decline in fitness is perhaps some explanation of the low level of economic and commerical activity in Australia at the moment. But of course there are other more important things associated with fitness with which I want to deal. These things are important not only for commercial reasons but also because of their relationship to national pride, national ethos, and things of that nature. 
About 60 years ago during one of the more glorious periods in Australia's history, John Masefield had something to say about the Australian man when he described the Anzac Corps which landed at Gallipoli in this way: 
They were, however, the finest body of young men ever brought together in modern times. For physical beauty and nobility of bearing they surpassed any men I have ever seen; They walked and looked like the kings in old poems and reminded me of the line in Shakespeare: 
Baited like eagles having lately bathed '. 
That, of course, became part of the great Australian tradition, part of the Australian man's perception of himself and it probably remained so as an important ingredient in the Australian national ethos and identity right up until the Second World War. 
-Yes, I believe he did. With all due deference, as a younger man, I might say that the view in this Senate perhaps represents some of the fine qualities of that period. It was only at the time of the Second World War, of course, that there began to be a perception of some change in this picture of the Australian man which can be summarised in the following description by a surgeon commander of the British Navy: 
Contrary to popular belief, the Australian male is not a superman. The magnificent specimens seen on the beaches, (lifesavers) and football fields are not representatives. Considering the abundance and variety of food, the unrivalled opportunities for sport of all kinds, and the almost perfect weather conditions prevailing in Australia, one would expect the average to be of higher standard. 
Another British naval officer when commenting on Australian soldiers, and so on in 1973 said: 
When I first saw Australians they were called cornstalks. Now just look at them- the number of Aussies in their thirties with bulging stomachs and bleary eyes is something shocking. The species has gone bad. 
Those were the views of two observers commenting at the time of the Second World War and shortly thereafter. 
In speaking about this sensitive issue I must be very careful not to offend people such as  Senator Grimes,  who is sitting next to me, by involving myself in interruptions to what I have to say. As I say, I think we should ponder on the apparent decline which has taken place and the effect on that of national morale, national ethos, and so on. Of course there are many causes for a decline such as that. One of the causes is undoubtedly the increased affluence which has come about in Australian society over the last 30 years. But there are other factors such as the basic and significant move from a predominantly rural society to the most predominantly urban society. 
There has also been a similar sort of move from manual to sedentary occupations. The education system of this country and indeed the aspirations of Australians in the last 30 to 40 years have been very much directed towards creating a nation of clerks in which the manual skills, the trade skills, tend to be despised in favour of the so-called white collar skills, the clerical skills of pen pushing, filling in documents, and things of that kind. At this point in our history we are beginning to realise for the first time that the most satisfying and rewarding jobs are probably those which involve manual skills rather than purely clerical skills. But is is a bit late now because several generations of Australians have been lost to that type of activity as a result of the aspirations which were encouraged in this country during that period. But what it all adds up to, in my view, is a lack of philosophical balance, which is perhaps nowhere better reflected than in this Parliament, between the activities of mind and body, and the need to relate the activities of both one with the other. 
I said that I wanted to talk about two or three important aspects which seemed to me historically relevant. They are the perception of Australians in the early days as rugged, physically fit and, as Masefield put it, beautiful people which was reflected in the literature of this country at the time, and the sort of decline which has come about since. Later I shall examine some of the assumptions upon which the claim about a decline is based. 
-May I come to that later? I want to think about that. If the honourable senator provokes me about it I will start coughing- I am a heavy smoker- and I do not want to do that. It is interesting that  Senator Baume  interjected because he is a constant reminder of these points as the  Chairman  of that important committee of this Senate, namely, the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, which dealt with the matter of an intoxicated society. I want to put on record some of the conclusions that can be reached about that matter in 1979. First of all, from the Australian Bureau of Statistics there are some very interesting figures about alcohol and smoking in this country. There is a continuing increase in the overall amount of alcohol consumed by Australians. In 1975-76, the last years of the Whitlam Government, much less alcohol was drunk in this society than is drunk under the Fraser Government in the rugged society in which we now live. That is something which we do not often hear from Government senators, but it is true. The country has been driven to the drink by this Government. I refer to the specific figures. In 1975-76 187.8 litres of beer, 12.7 litres of unfortified wine and 5.1 litres of fortified wine were consumed per head of population of 1 5 years of age and over. Those figures have increased significantly since then. The Senate Standing Committee on Social 
Welfare in its report  Drug Problems in Australia -an Intoxicated Society?  noted the lack of a specific government policy on alcohol use and abuse. The Committee recommended: 
That the Commonwealth Government develop and announce a specific policy on alcohol and alcohol abuse, which should include a clear statement of the Government's intention to bring about an overall reduction in the level of alcohol consumption in the country. 
As far as I know,  Senator Grimes,  that invitation has not been taken up by the present Government. 
The report goes on to state: 
We believe that a reasonable national goal would be to aim for a relative stabilization of levels of consumption within the next five years . . . 
The expression 'arrive at a reasonable level of stabilisation' when used so frequently by Government senators is not applied to alcohol. The report continued: 
. followed by a 1 per cent annual reduction in levels of overall consumption in the next ten years. 
One would imagine that that would be a modest attainment and would be about the level that has been achieved with the inflation rate in the past two years. Probably it is even within the grasp of this Government. That is the situation in relation to the consumption of alcohol as seen by that Committee and the Bureau of Statistics. 
I turn now to the matter of smoking. In the  Medical Journal of Australia  of September 1977 it was shown that there had been a continuing downward trend in smoking among men and a continued increase in smoking among women. Surveys were conducted by Gray and Hill in 1974 and 1976. The survey in 1976 showed that 40 per cent of males smoked and the 1 974 survey showed that 4 1 per cent of males smoked. That is an improvement for which the Government can take credit. We are prepared to give credit where credit is due. On the other hand, the 1974 survey showed that only 29 per cent of women smoked, but by 1976 that figure had increased to 31 per cent. The 1977 report of the Royal College of Physicians entitled  Smoking or Health  stated: 
Smoking has a deleterious  effect  on athletic performance . .  smoking impairs the functions of the heart and lungs, and the transport of oxygen . . . These effects of smoking on exercise are mediated through various mechanisms. 
The report goes on to explain why this is so. As honourable senators would now realise, that sort of report received a counter blast from a publication called  Smoking is Good for You.  I forget the name of the doctor who wrote it. 

 -Yes, Dr Whitby's publication  Smoking is Good for You. 
-I remember  Dr Whitby  ended the final chapter of his book by stating that it is now time that smokers of Australia stood up for themselves and said where they really stood on the issue. 
-I thank the honourable senator for his interjection. I suppose it is better to have the name of  Dr Whitby  engraved on one's heart than it is to have cigarette smoke engraved on one's heart. I appreciate  Senator Baume  's assistance in regard to what  Dr Whitby  had to say. So the level of activity in the consumption of alcohol and the consumption of cigarettes and so on by and large has increased under the Fraser Government. That is something of which we should all be cognisant and should remember. 
-That is a helpful interjection; I hope it has been noted by  Hansard.  There have been numerous artificial ways of trying to counteract the situation which I have described: Increased consumption of alcohol; increased consumption of tobacco; a very high level of preferred activity in the consumption of tobacco among young people; the consumption of alcohol showing a very interesting and different pattern in various cities of this country, with young people in Sydney having a preference for bourbon, young people in Melbourne having a preference for port, and young people in Adelaide having a preference for brandy. All these interesting patterns are beginning to develop because the degree of consumption has become so high. To counteract this decline in the standard of Australian physical fitness and the addiction to those drugs which has developed under this Government a whole pattern of rather neurotic physical activity has developed to try to attain that goal which Norman Douglas spoke of when he wrote: 
There is a beauty in fitness which no art can enhance. 
I refer to all sorts of activities- for example, to jogging. A whole mass of literature on jogging is now available. I remember arriving in Hawaii in July last year. I had a Japanese taxi driver who did not speak English very well. We were driving through the streets and he kept saying to me: Look, yogging, yogging'. I did not know what 'yogging' was. I suddenly discovered that what was called a 'Festival of Jogging' was taking place in Hawaii that day. I literally watched for three hours while thousands and thousands of people of all ages streamed past jogging. 

I appreciate  Senator Withers'  parting interjection. It was quite accurate. This sort of neurotic activity is already taking place in Australia. As I said., there is a whole mass of literature on jogging and keeping fit, to which I shall refer in passing. For example, there are the Australian publications  The Bachelors 'Keep Fit' Companion, Yoga by the Stars, Running High - 
-Yes, Garry Egger's  Running High.  There is also  Aussie Robics  and  The Massage Message for Fitness.  That is just to mention some Australian publications which already are enjoying quite a degree of popularity. There is a number of publications of that kind. For example, one of the ones to which I referred,  Running High,  relates that jogging gives one 'a sense of purpose' in life- something which we were promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  incidentally, and we have now deteriorated into jogging to find it. According to the book  Running High,  running makes one high. It claims also that running 'can be a great boost to the mental aspects of sex' and leads to a body 'that is more pleasure to touch'. The book states that 'it is paramount to jog on all kinds of surfaces, grass, sand, pebble, asphalt, rubber and coir matting'.  Running High  contains a lot of comments such as those, including the comment that dogs are the worst enemy of joggers. That book sells widely in Australia. As I said, it reflects a sort of neurotic physical activity to counteract all the other influences to which I referred. 
The other aspect to which I refer which goes again to the question of our national life and ethos relates very much to the question of Australian sporting achievements. There can be no doubt that Australia has declined as a sporting nation. Only a week or two ago, the great Bradman cricket team of 1948 enjoyed a dinner in Sydney at which tales were told of the great legends of past Australian cricket. Of course that team played during a legendary period in Australian cricket. It is very much a legendary period when one considers the recent performances of the Australian team in the test matches against England. 
What one suspects very much is that far from being a participating sporting nation, as was much more the pattern I believe in the late 1 940s, Australia has become very much a nation of watchers of sport. This practice has been greatly encouraged by the commercialisation of sport and the televising of sport which, of course, has created an increasingly big industry in this country which looks like becoming much bigger in the near future. 
But compare the great traditions of the 1948 cricket teams with the following description of a crowd at a Sydney test match only three or four weeks ago. An article in the  Canberra Times  which describes the crowd on the Hill at a test match in Sydney stated: 
There the bellicose fans loll and writhe on the grass, hugging their capacious  Eskys  and sometimes, far far more infrequently, their women-folk. 
The men are enormous. Most of them have arms the size of my legs and a visitor from an alien planet, beholding their horrific, grog-fed bellies, would suppose that on earth it is the men that gestate. 
The article goes on: 
This alleged interest in women makes an interesting contrast with the baying fellows' apparent general preference for the company of their own gross sex on the Hill. It is obvious that wives and lovers have been forsaken for the day so that Bruce and Craig and Bloody Old Garry can have a Ripper Time, getting drunk together and massaging one and other's porky bodies with  Coppertone 
The author of the article finishes up by saying: 
And the big men wallow. They lie, contented and dazed, among their own appalling debris, the hillocks of their beer guts protruding above an uneven plain of billions of discarded cans, canons, . . . wrappings, partly gnawed junk foods, crusts and feasting flies. 
They, the men as well as the flies, are blissfully happy. Both species are lucky to have such simple pleasures. 
There was less beer in those days. In another description of the same cricket match, the correspondent had this to say: 
The gulls panted and the shirt of John Maclean stuck to his fat body. On the Hill most people wore nothing but loin cloths and hundreds were turning a hideous  flourescent  pink, their pain dulled, for the  time  being, by the contents of the huge  Eskys  with which they had struggled, groaning like limping  weightliftersm  into the ground. 
The correspondent went on to say that the English did not have a very good lunch because they were doing very badly. He made the comment again that the crowd looked as though they might have been contestants in the world championship belly contest. In a further description there is again a reference to the crowd delving into their Eskys for consolation and basting their unpleasant bodies with tanning lotions. Perhaps there is a touch of hyperbole in those descriptions. 
There is no exaggeration at all. Might I say that had I been there I would have contrasted the people described with the honourable senator. But that, of course, is a sad picture of the decline of a much more participatory sporting nation one suspects to very much a viewing nation. 
Perhaps I can illustrate my point in a more factual way. Australia as a sporting nation once dominated sports such as tennis, squash, women's athletics, swimming and cycling. What I am saying relates in part to the terms of this Bill. It is just not that the performances of Australian athletes have deteriorated in terms of time or distance; it is just that the standards of other countries have improved. Perhaps there has been less of a pool from which to draw to develop a 'sporting elite', as the  Bulletin  was pleased enough to call it a few weeks ago, from which top quality athletes can be chosen. 
-Yes, but I think that in terms of world standards they are more the exception rather than the rule these days. This is particularly so when one thinks back to the golden girls of days gone by. 
Of course, there are specific political reasons and questions of political policy that have contributed to the relative decline in standards. One of those reasons is a lack of adequate funding by governments. Canada, for example, in the last three financial years has spent $21m, $2 5 m and $32m respectively on sport. This Government has spent just over Sim in each of those years. Much more funds were made available for sporting programs when the Labor Government was in office. In making that comment, I can see the generality of the Government's economic strategy in relation to the number of matters of public expenditure. I acknowledge that we are now living in different times. But it still seems that insufficient emphasis has been given to sporting prowess and achievement in a national sense and perhaps too much emphasis has been given to what is referred to in the terminology of this Bill as the commercialisation of the nation's fitness. I think that is an important comparison which we should remember. 
There are just one or two other comments that I wish to make. Despite some of the things that I have said in my speech this afternoon, I emphasise that the degree of fitness in this country at the present time is not a flippant matter; it is a serious matter in national terms. National fitness relates to so many levels of activity and performance whether it be at work or any other aspect of the daily lives of the citizens of this country. Australia has a number of very great natural advantages in terms of climate, beaches and so on which, as the commentators to which I have referred point out, should give us a particular advantage compared with many other countries. However, it seems that, for a variety of reasons, some of which I have referred to, those things have just not happened. Some very cynical views have been expressed about why they have not happened. I quote one view which I am sure would be of interest to  Senator Mulvihill  because it concerns the question of athletic performances in the Olympics and so on. Phillip Adams takes the view that perhaps we were never good at any of these things; we were always losers. He says: 
Look at the legend of Eureka Stockade where the miners were done like a dog's dinner. Look at the patriotic upsurge that followed the slaughter at Gallipoli. Look at the downfall of the Whitlam Government. Let other nations rise from their ashes like the phoenix. We prefer to lie in them like an over-cooked chook. 
I've always been proud to be an Australian. A citizen of a nation with a special talent for mediocrity and bludging, for laying around like lizards rubbishing the achiever, the intellectual, the tall poppy. If the Olympics gave medals for knocking instead of pole vaulting, for hurling abuse instead of the discus, we 'd have gold medals coming out of our ears. 
This is a different view of Australian society from the one which I sought to put in the course of what I hope is a constructive contribution to this debate on the question of national fitness. 
There seems to be one exception and that relates in a sense to a natural advantage which we have. Of course it is in the area of surfing. Midge Farrelly, Australian surfing champion, expressed his philosophy of life in these terms: 'When I'm hanging five on a big one, I feel close to God '. Perhaps there is in Australian society, particularly the surfing society, that sort of pantheistic, rather hedonistic view but one which is nonetheless important in relation to the sort of issue which I raised at the beginning, that is, the importance of this matter in terms of national ethos, national pride and so on. Perhaps we can get at it that way, through the Midge Farrelly philosophy; we can get back to the sorts of things which this Parliament is now seeking to do by appropriating $600,000 for the 'Life. Be in it' campaign. There seems to be a complementary process at work. One would hope that both would work towards the same purpose. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We commend it but regard it as a very limited sort of initiative. Perhaps that is all it purports to be, but perhaps there should be broader, wider and deeper initiatives taken in relation to the sorts of problems of national fitness with which this country is undoubtedly confronted and should not be confronted to the extent which it is. I commend the Bill, limited as it may be, to the Senate for those reasons. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. What is the most recent evaluation available to the Government on the operations of the Special Youth Employment Training Program? On the information available, does this program provide adequate training and useful work experience and does it enhance the ability of participants to compete in the labour market? Has an evaluation of this program been made by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs? If so, does the Government intend to make this report public? 
-The Senate is debating what might be described, on the titles of the various Bills that have just been read out by the  Clerk,  as a package of legislation. That package has been characterised as the 
ASIOlegislationandinfactconsistsoffourBills dealing with a number of important matters. In essence I suppose that the matters with which this legislation deals can be summarised as follows: First of all, the Bills set up the organisation and structure of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, commonly known as ASIO. Secondly, they set out powers and functions of ASIO. Thirdly, they provide the circumstances in which telephones and similar communications may be intercepted by the Director-General of Security who is the head of ASIO and by the Comptroller-General of Customs. Fourthly, they provide circumstances in which mail and similar communications may be intercepted and opened by officers of ASIO and others. Fifthly, they provide circumstances in which premises may be entered in pursuit of the functions of ASIO and the functions of the Comptroller-General. 
One must have grave doubts- I speak as an individual- about the powers given to the Comptroller-General of Customs. But I do not intend to deal with these matters at any length in my remarks because I believe that other honourable senators will do so and we will have a further opportunity to do so in the Committee stage of these various Bills. 
There are always difficulties and there are always differences of opinion in a democratic society about the role and function of security organisations. The essential question involves the extent to which the State can interfere legitimately with the fundamental freedoms and liberties of the subjects. In essence, any discussion of this legislation or legislation of this kind becomes a debate, to some extent at least, about civil liberties- a debate which should properly be conducted not only according to principles but also in the context of experience. The experience of Western democratic societies in relation to security organisations has not been good. It has not been good in Germany and it was not good in the past in the United States, with an organisation such as the Central Intelligence Agency, certainly until the procedures for the control and review of that agency were overhauled. The experience has not been good in Australia either. In fact  Mr Justice  Hope, in his royal commission report, found a number of illegalities, so-called, in relation to the conduct of members of ASIO. He referred to the fact that some of that conduct left much to be desired. 
Might I refer specifically to what His Honour said in the report. I refer to paragraph 1 1 6 wherein first of all he discussed some general precepts, as he called them, which ought to apply in relation to propriety and legality in relation to 
ASIO.Inparagraph117hewentontosay: 
Material before me establishes that there have at times been departures by ASIO from these principles. The departures have been of varying significance. Their justification has also varied in weight. 
Later he said: 
The first and fundamental principle is that ASIO must operate within the terms of its statute, and be concerned only with matters which are relevant to security. 
One should qualify that statement by pointing out that the 1956 statute was a very flimsy document indeed, and I want to say something about that in the context of considering the present legislation. The point I want to make there is that  Mr Justice  Hope found a number of disquieting aspects of the operation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in the context of the inquiry that he conducted. 
The second point I want to make is that the question of powers to be given to an agency like ASIO or to bureaucrats in another department or agency is a very delicate and important question in a society which is concerned continually, and properly concerned, about invasions of privacy, the social and political implication of technological advances in communications and in interception of communications which make possible increased invasions of privacy and so on. So first of all I would say that society is properly and legitimately concerned about these things. Secondly, consideration of legislation of this kind and the sort of organisation which ASIO is, is inevitably accompanied by a degree of melodrama and by a great deal of interest by all sorts of people who may not normally be interested in the contents of legislation. Spying, one might say, has become a fashionable industry. It seems very hard work when one considers that in many countries the penalty for spying is still death. Spies have to go through all that in order to provide excitement for a vast range of people, from readers of Len Deighton to viewers of  Washington Behind Closed Doors.  I think it is important tha' any consideration that this Parliament makes of the legislation should be made without any degree of melodrama of that kind. 
I think it is important though that we look at the legislation in the context of concern about privacy and civil liberties. There is a very nice sentence in the report of the Law Reform Commission on Criminal Investigation which in essence encapsulates the matters about which we should be concerned. In that report the Law Reform Commission said: 
The insecurity of a society devoid of the opportunity of private communication has only to be stated to be guarded against. 
I think that is the essence of what we must be concerned about. Of course, as an individual and as a senator I do not like provision being made for phone tapping or for the interception of mail. I am not satisfied as to the necessity for some of those provisions. The Opposition's attitude as to the details will be spelt out in the committee stages. 
However, let me quote from a letter written by the Secretary of the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties to the Attorney-General on 17 February. In it he asked a number of points about this legislation, particularly as it affects the Comptroller-General of Customs' powers. The letter reads: 
The  VCCL  believes phone tapping should continue to be confined to cases of national security. If it is extended to drug detection, it is likely to get out of hand, lead to abuses of power along the lines experienced in America, have little, if any effect on crime detection, inhibit freedom of communication by law abiding citizens and be gradually extended to areas of crime detection. 
The writer then asked the Attorney-General a number of questions about the rationale and justification for introducing these procedures, particularly as regards breaches of legislation relating to narcotics. They are important questions and the letter reflects the degree of concern that is felt by a generally responsible body and also the degree of concern which has been expressed publicly since this legislation was brought down in many newspaper articles, in editorials and elsewhere. 
The legislation before the Senate is important. Because it is important, and because it deals with matters which concern society as a whole, it is vital that abuses or potential abuses should be guarded against. It may be said that ASIO, or any security organisation should desirably, like Caesar's wife, be above suspicion. It is very difficult in the climate in which security organisations operate to put that sort of criterion upon it, but it would, of course, be most desirable. 
The Opposition regards it as important that there should be legislation with regard to ASIO. As I said earlier, if one considers the legislation of 1 956 one finds that it is very skeletal. It is distinctly different from this legislation in that we have here an attempt to spell out a detailed charter for ASIO, an attempt to outline its powers and responsibilities. The Opposition happens to disagree with some of the ways in which that is done, but at least an attempt is made to do it. The legislation is also important because the Hope Royal Commission, which was appointed by a Labor government, made a number of recommendations, many of which are embodied in this Bill. I would say, in all fairness, that some of the other recommendations which  Mr Justice  Hope made, and which did not require legislation, have already been implemented by the Government. The Opposition does not know how effectively those provisions are working. We are not told, but it would be interesting for this Parliament to know. 
That may be so, senator, but in fact we have not been told, and one hopes that the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope that have been implemented are operating effectively. They were certainly dealt with at some length by the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 5 May 1 977. 
Another very important and positive point about the legislation, one which we applaud, is that it has introduced a Security Appeals Tribunal. This is very important. We regard the provision in the legislation as inadequate and very much regret that the tribunal is not to give effect to that element of retrospectivity which  Mr Justice  Hope suggested. In paragraphs 141 and 142 of his report he made the point that incorrect security assessments may remain, to persons who were adversely affected, a potential source of injustice for the rest of their careers. It is a matter of regret that that aspect of the royal commissioner's report has not been taken up. 
First, we regard the Bill as important for several positive reasons. Also, because the legislation is so important and needs to work effectively and enjoy the confidence of the majority of Australians, it should be the best possible legislation that this Parliament can provide. We believe that, having regard to the need to balance the interests of the State with the liberty of the individual, the Senate should deal with the legislation in a calm and deliberate way, and that the Government should be responsive to any suggestions which may improve it. We would submit that both in the Press and in public comment there is a consensus which is marked by a degree of disquiet about certain aspects of the Bills as they are before the Senate. Regrettably, the legislation does not fall into the category of the best kind that this Parliament can produce. At that point we part company with the Government. 
Next, we feel very strongly that the legislation should be the result of a bipartisan effort. The rhetoric of civil liberties in this country is bipartisan. The Governor-General's Speech after the last election referred to the Government's carrying out a continuing program of law reform - 
. particularly with a view to protecting civil liberties and enhancing individual rights. Constant vigilance is required to ensure that the rights of individual citizens are not eroded or ignored. 
We do not think this legislation meets the test that was then laid down by the Prime Minister by way of that speech. We believe that although the rhetoric of civil liberties might be bipartisan the reality, in terms of some of the provisions of these Bills, is not. We say that again because, if the system is to enjoy the confidence and respect of the mass of the Australian people it should be in a very real sense bipartisan. The only concession made to bipartisanship in the legislation relates to what is very much a matter of historical reality. I refer to the appointment of the present Director-General, who was appointed by a Labor government and reappointed by a Liberal government. 
Also, it is important to consider the circumstances in which a government withholds information from the Parliament and the people. The circumstances in which a government does that should be as limited as possible. I have been discussing in this Senate the freedom of information legislation, and the varying degrees of concern and rhetorical commitment to that concept, but in essence we are concerned here with the same sort of debate in relation to the degree of information that is withheld. 
Hugh Gaitskell, the Leader of the British Labour Party in 1956, declared in the House of Commons that the Government had the right to withhold information on security grounds only for so long as four assumptions prevailed. The first was that secret operations were ultimately and effectively controlled by Ministers. The second was that such operations remained secret, that is to say, were not bandied about by Ministers who were the recipients of the information. The third was that they not embarrass us in our international relations, and the fourth was that there be a general community feeling that the secret services were competent and efficient. 
-That there should be, as  Senator Mulvihill  has said, no Bay of Pigs episode. When one talks about the Bay of Pigssince the honourable senator prompts me to digress- it is important to remember that of all the criticisms that were made of the Central Intelligence Agency about that incident and its assessment in relation to China's involvement in Vietnam, were throughout correct- much more correct than were the assessments made by this Government or its predecessors. It is very important to have proper evaluative procedures when considering the findings of intelligence agencies on various matters. I have been making general observations to indicate the approach which we adopt to this legislation. Because we think that it should be approached in this way and because this is the only opportunity that we will have to debate in this Parliament a Bill  which is in some respects inadequate and in others dangerous, I move, in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide: 
that Annual Reports be presented to Parliament on the general operation of the Act and in particular the exercise of Special Powers under Part III, Division 2 of the Bill; 
that regular periodic judicial audit be conducted into the Australian Security Intelligence Organization to ensure: 
that it complies with its charter and the law; 
that it does not unjustifiably infringe civil liberties; and 
that it operates effectively and efficiently; 
that the responsible Minister be fully informed by the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization with respect to any matter, other than the contents of files relating to particular individuals, on which he has sought information and advice; 
) that the Leader of the Opposition be fully and regularly briefed on all aspects of the operation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization, including the exercise of its Special Powers under Part III, Division 2 of the Bill; 
the proper financial accountability of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization, including the auditing of its accounts by the Auditor-General, as recommended by the Hope Report; 
the redefinition of the concept of 'security', and in particular the element of 'subversion', in order to narrow its scope and limit the possibility of its mis-application; 
the restriction of the circumstances in which, and the times for which, warrants may be issued under Part III, Division 2 of the Bill; 
that communication by the Australian Security Intelligence Organization to State authorities of security assessment information in relation to individuals be made only upon condition of adoption by such State of a Security Appeals system similar to that created by Part IV of the present Bill; 
that the Security Appeals system be given retrospective operation as recommended in the Hope Report; 
that no person be denied notification of the existence of an adverse Security assessment made about that person; and 
k ) that the communication of information purporting to identify an Australian Security Intelligence Organization employee or agent be penalised only when such information would endanger the safety of such person or itself be seriously prejudicial to security. ' 
I intend to refer to the amendment in some detail because in essence it encapsulates the implicit and explicit criticisms which we have of this legislation. The amendment suggests that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide: 
that Annual Reports be presented to Parliament on the general operation of the Act and in particular the exercise of Special Powers under Part III, Division 2 of the Bill. 
Those are the special powers which ASIO has in relation to its investigations and collection of intelligence material. The amendment then provides: 
that regular periodic judicial audit be conducted into the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to ensure - 
There are a number of matters then listed and I will refer to those in a minute. The amendment further provides: 
that the responsible Minister be fully informed by the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation with respect to any matter, other than the contents of files relating to particular individuals, on which he has sought information and advice; 
That is the principle of ministerial control and responsibility to which I have referred and to which  Mr Justice  Hope referred. Then there is a paragraph dealing with the restriction of the circumstances in which warrants may be issued in order to search premises, open mail or intercept telephone conversations. 
The points which we make in the amendment go to the heart of the criticism of the legislation insofar as that criticism relates to the desirability of balancing the needs of the State against the needs of individual citizens. We think that many of the provisions in the amendment properly reflect concern which has been expressed publicly by a great variety of organisations and in the Press. Many of my colleagues will deal in detail with some of these provisions but I wanted to deal with them with that degree of generality to indicate right at the beginning our concern about them. 
In this legislation the specification of ASIO's powers does not guarantee that they will not be abused. The Act states that the Director-General is subject to the general directions of the Minister but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General in a number of instances. In his third report  Mr Justice  Hope specifically criticised that sort of concept and made an important historical comment- I have said that we have to see this in the context of experience- when he said: 
There has been a tendency over the years for ministers to take the intelligence/security business for granted or to leave it to go its own way. This attitude may no longer suffice. Ministers are, in the final analysis, the ones for whom intelligence advice is produced. 
He goes on to make similar comments in that section of the report. The first paragraph of the amendment which I have moved relates to the special powers of ASIO contained in Part III Division 2 of the Bill. It brings into question the true accountability of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation under this legislation. In  our view the Director-General's powers have been increased at the expense of the powers of the Attorney-General. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  gave high praise to  Mr Justice  Woodward, the present Director-General of ASIO, and we make no criticism of and no hostile comment about those remarks of the Attorney-General. However, as the  Financial Review  pointed out, there are very great dangers in framing legislation around the particular incumbent of any job, however admirable he might be, since his term of office is inevitably limited. We all hope that  Mr Justice  Woodward has found the secret of eternal life as Director-General of ASIO and that that observation may not be true but, of course, it is true, and experience shows us that organisations such as the Central Intelligence Agency and the American Government have made very drastic mistakes by tending to leave matters of this kind, which are properly the subject matter of very clear legislation, to the whims of a particular director. 
Here in the Senate we deal with legislation and, with the greatest respect to the AttorneyGeneral, it is not good enough to say as he has said in many debates in this place that AttorneysGeneral and Directors-General of ASIO are reasonable men and we need not worry. The reasonable man in British common law is the man on the Clapham bus and he does not often get to be the Director-General of ASIO or the Attorney-General in the Australian Government. As  Senator Durack  has also said in the Senate, there have been previous Attorneys-General, and perhaps previous Directors-General of ASIO, whom he would not have regarded as entirely reasonable. A future incumbent of the position of Director-General might believe, as did the former South Australian police commissioner 18 months ago, that his primary loyalty was to the security agency, or even to the British or American intelligence network, rather than to the government of the day. In this case it would be very dangerous for the incumbent to have wide discretionary powers. All we say is that experience should tell us this and that it should be reflected in the legislation which the Senate is now debating. 
In relation to the first point of the amendment, the annual report to the Attorney-General from the Director-General would not have to contain information about the number of warrants applied for and granted, for example, in relation to telephone tapping or the use of listening devices. In New Zealand these figures are supplied to the New Zealand Parliament and to the New 
Zealand Attorney-General. They were supplied by former  Senator Murphy  as Attorney-General in this Senate in answer to a question when he indicated quite clearly how many authorised phone tappings or interceptions of communication there had been in certain years. When one asks the present Attorney-General questions about security matters he tends, if I can put it at its most reasonable level, to behave with a high degree of circumspection as if he has been found coming out of the wrong toilet. There is a great deal of hesitation in answering these questions. It may be that that is because there are insufficient guidelines and insufficient clarity about what the Director-General's report should be and what the proper role of an Attorney-General should be in this area. 
The second point to which I referred in the amendment relates to a judicial audit. The expression 'judicial audit' in a sense speaks for itself. What we are saying is that every three years all the records of an organisation such as ASIO should be made available to an appointed judge who would determine whether ASIO had complied with its charter, and the law, whether it had unjustifiably infringed civil liberties and whether it had operated efficiently and effectively during the period in question. We are simply saying that time should not be allowed to run as it was with the Central Intelligence Agency and as it was with ASIO in the past. Such an organisation should not be allowed to fall into disrespect because the legislation is inadequate and no such proper public inquiries- public in the sense of being conducted in an independent sense- are made in relation to the organisation. The second point in the amendment flows from another lesson of experience. 
Thirdly, we think that the relevant Minister should be fully informed by the DirectorGeneral of ASIO with respect to any matter other than the contents of files on particular individuals. That again is a self-explanatory point. Even the limitation on the Minister's power is self-explanatory. It is a safeguard against political abuse. We feel very strongly that the Leader of the Opposition should also be informed if he asks about any one file.  Mr Justice  Hope was pretty strong on a bipartisan approach te legislation of this kind. As I said, the rhetoric of the Government is strong; the realities of the Bill are very weak. Other Opposition senators will take up further points with which I do not have time to deal. 
I conclude on the question of a bipartisan approach.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Hope in his fourth report said: 
If there is to be a bipartisan approach it is necessary that the Opposition party or parties should be informed about security matters . . . 
He went on to say how this should be done. He continued: 
This practice is regarded as basic in various parts of the democratic world and should be regarded as basic in Australia. 
It is not basic in the legislation now before the Senate. Lip service only is given to that concept which we believe to be a very important one if the legislation and the organisation which it creates are to have the respect and confidence of the Australian community which they ought to have. We deal with a number of other matters in the various paragraphs of our amendment, many of which will be discussed in detail in other contributions to this debate and in the Committee stage of this legislation. We are concerned that it be the best possible legislation which this Parliament can produce. We do not think that it is at the moment. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
Has the Australian Research Grants Committee published any criteria by which research proposals in the social sciences are assessed? 
What are the criteria whether published or not? 
How many assessors' reports are made on a proposal before the Committee considers it? 
What precautions are taken to preclude political bias in judging proposals? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the Budget decision to make Commonwealth postgraduate awards taxable. Does the Government take the discretionary view that there is an income element in Commonwealth post-graduate awards, but no income element in nonCommonwealth awards which are not taxable? If so, I further ask: Why does a Commonwealth award have an income element which does not exist in the case of a privately endowed scholarship? If the answer to these questions is in the affirmative, either directly or in effect, is any review or other action under way to remove this anomalous situation? 
-The report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training has been  Vh  years in preparation and has cost the Government and the taxpayers some three-quarters of a million dollars. At the outset the inquiry had the most wide-ranging and ambitious terms of reference which raised immense hopes of producing, in the words of some Ministers, a blueprint for Australian education until the year 2000. I think it should be recorded as a matter of regret and as a matter of fact that the Williams Committee, with the terms of reference it got, probably was saddled with an almost impossible task and people who had anticipations in respect of its report are likely to be disillusioned by many of the recommendations made in that report. 
Since the Williams Committee was established, its existence has been used continually by Government spokesmen as a reason for putting off consideration of a number of very important issues of concern to this country, particularly issues relating to youth unemployment, the relationship between education and work and things of that kind which were fundamental to the terms of reference. In Question Time in the Senate we have been told again and again that really we have to wait for the report of the Williams Committee in order to have a solution to these problems. Now that the report is here I offer the respectful suggestion that the solutions which have been sought, and which have been put off for  2lA  years now, are just not available in this report. It is only fair to say that, because of the limited time for which the report has been available to the Opposition, it is difficult to make detailed comments on many of the proposals that are contained therein. Its great merit seems to be that it is painted, as it were, on a broad canvas; that it canvasses many of the issues of fundamental concern in relation to education. Whether in the process of so doing it has provided solutions is another question. Certain recommendations of the report at first sight, and probably at second sight also, commend themselves to anyone concerned with the future of education in Australia. 
I refer first to the recommendation that there be increased funding of research for universities, one that is quite consistent with another that was made some three years ago by the examiners of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Also, it is consistent with the recommendations of two Tertiary Education Commission reports, but one upon which no action has been taken by the Government. It is an important recommendation, to which the Opposition attaches a great deal of significance. 
Secondly, the report deals with the rational transferring of credits between tertiary institutions- another important recommendation towards inducing greater flexibility in the tertiary education system. It recommends a return to full triennial funding, and to better labour statistics and facilities for manpower planning. The absence in Australia of adequate statistics, and facilities for collecting them, has been commented on for years past. One hopes that the Committee's recommendation on the matter will receive more prompt attention than have similar recommendations made in years gone by. 
Another recommendation which commends itself is the need for a special effort to increase the numbers of Aborigines who are employed in skilled trades. Yet others relate to the endorsement of migrant education programs, to the need for women to have wide access to skilled trades, to the need for special efforts to improve numeracy and literary skills, and to the need for greater flexibility in the staffing of Australian universities. These are all very positive and important recommendations, as are those which relate to the special attention required to the needs of the handicapped in employment, and the need for arrangements to be negotiated with the Public Service, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, industry and the universities for the exchange and secondment of staff. I do not think there is. anything particularly new about any of those suggestions. For several years now they have been discussed in the course of the education debate in Australia. I emphasise that the important point is that the Williams Committee, because of its overview, has been in a position to bring all these factors together in one report. That is what makes it a significant document. 
On the fundamental questions which were asked in the terms of reference of the inquiry, such as that concerned with the relationship between education and work, about which we have heard so much rhetoric in the political debate, the report is of course at its weakest. I must say that it contains some quite extraordinary passages, which it is perhaps unfair to take out of context. But I do find it strange that in a document that has been prepared by such an eminent group of gentlemen as those who comprise the Williams Committee, in dealing with a very great book, Fred Hirsch 's  The Social Limits of Growth,  the Committee had this to say at paragraph 1 1 7 about its impact: 
These social limits to growth, if accepted as valid, call in question the main doctrinal basis of Adam Smith's  Wealth of Nations  that man in promoting his own self-interest could be led 'as by an invisible hand' to promote the social good. Hirsch contends that to preserve harmony in an individualistic economy, the pursuits of oligarchic wealth should somehow be diverted and opportunities for it reduced. 
I find it strange that a Committe of this calibre should in 1979 find Fred Hirsch 's book to be the definitive answer to Adam Smith's  Wealth of Nations  and, indeed it would seem, the first answer to his thesis. Be that as it may, I am happy to say that on issues that I would regard as being more relevant educationally, the report is not consistent with the statement that appears in that paragraph. 
On one issue that is of very great importance to this Parliament, that of youth unemployment, the Committee had something very important to say. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his statement to the House of Representatives on 9 September 1976, when the Williams Committee was established, rightly stressed the problem of youth unemployment in Australia and announced that the inquiry would examine the relationship between the pattern of youth unemployment and the role of our education system. 
Ever since 1976, when that statement was made, the Government's rhetoric has consisted again and again of two responses on the question of youth unemployment. The first has been to say, 'The Williams Committee is looking after this for us; when they report we will really have the good oil '-if the Senate will pardon the use of the colloquialism- 'and we will be able to fix it up'. The Government now has the good oil and, in the light of what the Committee has said on the subject, that oil is burning hot. The other response in the attempt of government supporters to dispose of the problem of youth unemployment will be only too familiar to honourable senators. Both before and after that statement of 9 September 1976 there have been, again and again, statements by members of the Government and people outside of it who ought to know better and to act more responsibly, blaming the youth of Australia for its incapacity to obtain jobs. 
I say in all fairness that I do not know whether or not it is a correct newspaper report, but the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who tabled this report in the Parliament, is reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 5 February 1979 as saying: 
. an inquiry into unemployment conducted by his Department had uncovered 'sad characteristics'. 
Almost all of them - 
That is, the youth- 
. lack the skills that would be necessary for pre-apprenticeship '. 
It is sad to note that one can survive in an education system for 10 years and beyond and yet lack the basic skills necessary for preapprenticeship training. The report continues: 

 Senator Carrick was speaking at the opening of the third stage of a junior high school at Keysborough, a Melbourne suburb. 
He said the unemployed not only lacked the basic skills, but also a basic goal in life. 
If the honourable senator will let me deal with the point I will in a minute perhaps resolve some of his difficulties. 
-That would be hard. You said it, not me. My point is that the blame has been attributed to a number of factors. For example, the first attempt was to say that unemployment was a myth. The second was that anybody who was unemployed was a dole bludger. The third was that high rates of pay for juniors was responsible. This Committee, which had been asked specifically to look at this question, had this to say at page 65 1 of Volume I: 
There have been many attempts to explain the very sharp increase in youth unemployment in terms of poor standards of education, a relative increase in award rates of wages for juniors, the high labour turnover rates of young workers, a large increase in unemployment benefits relative to post-tax earnings from 1973 onwards and its effect on the incentives to accept employment in the less pleasant or stimulating jobs, or by some combination of these factors. 
But the very disturbing increase in youth unemployment from 1974 onwards cannot be explained in this way. The rough similarity of the rates of increase in the percentage unemployment of various groups in the labour market points to the more general factors which caused the recession and which sustain it. 
That is the view of the Committee on that particular subject. I think what this group of educators and industrialists are really saying is that they reject many of the notions which have been implicit in the rhetoric of the political debate about the unemployed youth situation in this country. 
There are one or two other comments of a more general nature which I wish to make briefly. I have drawn attention to some of the very positive recommendations in the report and I am sure that there are many more which I have not yet had a chance to examine. The Committee is very hesitant, for example, about the question of the rationalisation of tertiary institutions. Those of us who are involved in politics would understand that hesitancy because there are a great variety of problems involved in either the amalgamation or the closure of tertiary institutions. 

 - Senator Grimes points out that not everyone hesitates. I think that there was less hesitation in the United Kingdom. There are very real problems involved in terms of capital investment in institutions and things of that kind, quite apart from the political problems which led to the establishment of the college of advanced education in the Wannon electorate and in the area of the Northern Rivers, in another area which is regarded as important. There are very real and significant difficulties which the Committee undoubtedly was very conscious of in the somewhat hesitant recommendations which it made on these points. One of the things that the Committee discussed was the necessity for cutting down on confusion and complexity in educational administration. The Committee quotes a distinguished overseas educator,  Dr Barbara  Burn, as saying that every time she comes to Australia there seems to be an additional layer of control in tertiary education. She has stated that it is time to reverse the trend. I do not know when she was last here, whether it was before or after the establishment in most States of post-secondary education commissions, but of course what she has said is true. 
The report goes on to recommend a greatly increased role for the Australian Education Council, which is a council of all State Ministers and the Federal Minister of Education. One suspects that this could have the effect of turning it into a de facto administrative body. Some reliance might be placed on the Government's notion of federalism and its implicit criticism of federally established education commissions than to any rational or more rational consideration. 
When one is reading this report one is repeatedly concerned with the question why the Tertiary Education Commission, perhaps restructured as the Williams Committee suggests, might not be a more appropriate body to deal with this matter than a rival administrative body such as the Australian Education Council. These are things which have to be thought about and which the Government- as  Senator Carrick  indicated- will be thinking about. The issues dealt with in this report must be of concern to all. There have been a lot of rumours and speculation about the Williams report in the Press. It was reported in the Press that the committee was very divided on a number of substantial issues but this was subsequently denied by members of that Committee. On reading the report, I must say that it seems to be a disappointing document in its capacity to grapple with certain of those issues which were at the nub of the terms of reference- very silly terms of reference in our view. The Committee has not grappled with some of those issues at the nub of those terms of reference as one would have hoped that it might have done. I think that is really because it was quite an impossible task to vest in any committee of this kind. One suspects that some of the rumours about the difficulties in grappling with some of those issues were perhaps correct, but one can put it no higher than that. 
I would join with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in commending a close reading of the report by all members of the Senate, largely as I say because it canvasses the issues in the important area covered by the report with which we have been concerned. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What are the first-year enrolment figures for all Australian universities, for both full-time and part-time students, in each year since 1 969. 
What are the total enrolment figures for all Australian universities in each year since 1 969. 
What percentage of students complete their degrees in the minimum time allowed. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware of recent statements by  Mr Hunt,  the Minister for Health, and by  Mr Robinson,  the Minister for Finance, suggesting that the increase in unemployment amongst males, particularly young males, is due to the increasing participation in the work force of married women? Were those two Ministers articulating the Government's view on this question? If so, what steps does the Government intend to take to deal with the situation? 
I rise very briefly to take part in this debate. I suppose that I am largely provoked to speak by  Senator Wheeldon  's repeated references to the  Reader's Digest  which is undoubtedly - 
I am sorry. I heard  Senator Wheeldon  refer to it also but perhaps in more derogatory terms. 
-Senator Webster has quoted from the  Reader's Digest  article in this Senate on every occasion that I can remember when there has been any urgency motion or matter of public importance raised by the Opposition. 
-I appreciate that. I know that repetition is something which  Senator Webster  learnt at school and that it is very important in his efforts to learn anything. The point made in the  Reader's Digest  article becomes more and more remote from the subject of debates in the Senate.  Senator Webster  also indulged in a spirited defence of the Hamer Government, describing  Mr Hamer  as 'a man without peer' in respect of integrity and honesty. I was provoked to recall that it was only one month ago on 28 February when the Premier of Victoria, the same  Mr Hamer,  in a public interview, could not remember that he had signed a very important document the day before in relation to land transactions in Victoria. He could not remember what he had done 24 hours before he was specifically asked about it on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  PM.  He could not remember that he had signed a document relating to a mortgage for the Beggs family. That provokes one to consider the circumstances which have given rise to this motion. If a Premier of a State is so incapable of either telling the truth or recalling events which occurred only a day before, a very serious situation arises in respect of the fate of federal moneys which are appropriated by this Parliament to Victoria. 
-I recall the incident to which  Senator Webster  refers and it seems quite irrelevant to the matter being debated, as is the  Reader's Digest  article. That article is not only irrelevant but also wrong in fact. I ask  Senator Webster  to consider the action which has been brought in the Supreme Court of New South Wales as a result of an allegation such as that which he made in this Parliament a short while age.  Senator Webster  is wrong in fact as well as in recollections. The point I was coming to was that we must be concerned about the fate of federal moneys which are paid to a State such as Victoria when the Treasurer and Premier of that State has such a poor recollection of events that he cannot remember what happened only a day before. Of course, if one studies Australian newspaper reports, instead of the  Reader's Digest,  about the position in Victoria over the last 12 or 15 months, one will find that there is more relevance in them than there is in what  Senator Webster  has been saying in the last few minutes. For example, an article in the  Age  of 10 October 1978 stated: 
The Housing Commission paid $2.3 m for land which a development company bought only a few days earlier for $ 1 90,000, a Supreme Court judge was told yesterday. 
Government senators come in here and say one after the other that there was no finding of dishonesty against any Minister in the Hamer Government. That is true. There was no finding by the Gowans inquiry of dishonesty against any Minister in the Victorian Government. It is an extraordinary situation when electors in Victoria can read a statement that the Housing Commission there paid $2.3m for land bought by a private development company a few days earlier for $190,000 and  Senator Webster  in the Senate defends that sort of thing by reading selected quotations from the  Reader's Digest,  of all publications. What an extraordinary performance. 
If we look at the situation 8motion,  Senator Wriedt,  who moved this urgency motion was talking about and examine what has happened in Victoria over the last 1 8 months or two years we will find that again and again there have been examples of this sort of thing involving public money. The Victorian Government has been there too long and has become too slack in applying proper standards to public administration. This does not arouse criticism from the Australian Labor Party alone. We have been attacked here today because we as an Opposition have raised these issues in precisely the place where they ought to be raised- the Australian Parliament. There have been too many lectures from Government ministers and Government senators about the role of an Opposition in the Senate and the role of an Opposition in the Federal Parliament. They are very patronising lectures about what our function is and what we are supposed to do, but one thing which we are clearly not supposed to do is criticise maladministration where it occurs and misappropriation of Commonwealth funds whether by State governments or anybody else. 
It is not only the Opposition here that is guilty, as claimed by people such as  Senator Webster,  of criticising the Hamer Government for misapplication of funds, gross waste of taxpayers ' money and matters of that kind but also prominent members of the Liberal Party in Victoria. They also are very concerned about these matters and have made very similar allegations. For example,  Mr Jennings  and  Mr Francis  suggested that in their view  Mr Hamer  was not a man without peer in regard to his honesty and integrity on these matters. The extraordinary thing about people such as  Mr Francis  and  Mr Jennings  who make these sorts of allegations is that ultimately they suffer a fate which no member of the Labor Party in living memory has suffered- they are expelled from their party in Victoria not for voting against their party but for not voting at all. They merely abstained from voting on an issue in the Parliament; they failed to vote. As a result of that they were expelled from the Liberal Party by some sort of hung jury- a Liberal Party State Conference in Victoria. No doubt  Senator Lewis,  who is smiling, was there.  Senator Webster,  of course, would not have been there. 
-Senator Webster recalls Sam Benson being expelled from the Labor Party. It is true that Sam Benson was expelled from the Labor Party. He was expelled for standing against an endorsed Labor candidate. He was not expelled for merely failing to vote on a motion in which the Victorian Parliament was asked to affirm its confidence in the Victorian Premier and Government. The two members who just failed to vote were expelled for their lack of confidence. What an extraordinary party it is in Victoria that this sort of thing can happen. Of course, the criticism which we make here has been made much more explicitly by those two members. Look at the fate they suffered. No wonder there is concern by people such as  Senator Webster  to tell us what we ought to be doing. For example, if any of us failed to vote on an issue, should we be expelled? Presumably  Senator Webster  would wish to have us expelled from the Senate for the heinous crime of not being here when he is speaking. 
As I have said, the whole saga goes back two years, beginning with the purchase by the government for the Liberal Party of Victoria of a building for the Liberal Party's headquartersthe so-called Vapold transaction. That was one of the earlier transactions. It continued with the so-called land deals in Sunbury, and the land deals in the Berwick development area. Even as recently as a month or two ago we had further revelations of the same sort of activity, as if they had learned nothing from past experience, in relation to land at Sale. 

 -As Senator Wheeldon properly says, it is a catalogue of infamy. If there is one thing that can be said by Government spokesmen in this debate, it is that the situation has improved for the Government in political terms. Since the recent revelations in South Africa in regard to the South African Government, it might be said by a political observer that even the Hamer Government in Victoria is starting to look good by South African standards. After all the Victorian Premier has never found himself in the position of having to deny his involvement in an assassination plot- not yet. But nearly every other allegation that has been made in South Africa has been made about the Victorian Government. Indeed, the South African Government makes the Victorian Government look good. 

 - Senator Webster is concerned about the current one about Labor in Queensland of all places. That is an extraordinary thing to say. No doubt  Senator Webster  will get out the  Reader's Digest  and tell us another little story from it about the Labor Party in Queensland. Of course, we happen to be talking about the Liberal Party in Victoria.  Senator Webster,  as a member of the National Country Party, would know that the leader of his party in Victoria,  Mr Ross-Edwards,  has been very critical of the role of the Hamer Government in relation to these land purchases by the Housing Commission. In Victoria the National Country Party sees it as its function to criticise maladministration in government, what it perceives to be dishonesty in government, but here we find  Senator Webster,  who has fallen into the role of being leader of the National Country Party in this place, pursuing a totally different line. That is an extraordinary thing that we will be able to tell the electors of Victoria in the forthcoming election campaign. 
Thousands and thousands of people who have supported the Country Party in the past are concerned about this very question of the misappropriation of funds and the misallocation of funds in terms of the sort of relief funds that a government makes available to country people in times of difficulty. So  Senator Webster  is fulfilling an extraordinary role in the context of this debate. Like all the speakers on the Government side, he has not dealt with any of the issues about which this Parliament is properly entitled to be concerned, including the direction in which the taxpayers money goes. In Victoria is has gone in sums which amount to millions of dollars into the pockets of developers who saw the Hamer Government coming and saw the Premier and Treasurer as figures to whom they could sell gold bricks if they wanted to do so and they were able to get away with it because of years of neglect and malpractice of this kind. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Did the number of unemployed benefit recipients increase by 18,000 between last November and February of this year compared with the corresponding period last year? Is this increase in part attributed to a greater number of school leavers deciding not to continue with their education this year? What proposals from the Williams Committee report does the Government see as being capable of urgent implementation to ensure that these students either receive work or are attracted back to appropriate post-secondary education? 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment whether he is aware of recent Press reports in which Professor John 
Lovering and  Dr Victor  Prescott state, following discussions with the Minister, that they believe that the Government's anticipated White Paper on Antarctica has been scrapped because of disagreements within Cabinet. Does the Minister agree with this view and also with Professor Lovering 's statement that our long-term position on the Antarctic continent is dependent upon an increase in our present degree of scientific effort in that area? Does the Minister also agree with Professor Lovering 's implicit comment on the insufficiency of our present effort in Antarctica? 
-The shot fired by the Government tonight is, of course, a shot in the Victorian election campaign. It has no other purpose. It has no relevance to industrial relations. It is a desperate attempt to get a desperate Premier- the Premier of Victoria- off the hook. The evidence of that is contained in the statement of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I have never seen such a sloppy statement about industrial relations. I have seen a lot of sloppy statements about industrial relations since this Government came to power, but this is by far the worst. 
-We will hear from  Senator Missen  in a moment. He knows all about this matter. I shall refer to some of the particulars of the statement which I have described as sloppy because I do not want  Senator Missen  to go away with any greater degree of ignorance than he has now. As I have said, the predominant purpose of the statement is to fire a shot in the Victorian election campaign. 
Let us look at some of the particulars of the statement itself. It is said in the first paragraph that the improved or dramatic reduction in the level of industrial disputes has been a result of this Government's industrial relations policy. It is quite true that there has been a reduction in the level of disputes. It is not a result of the Government 's industrial relations policy; it is a result of the Government's employment policy, which has had a significant and very important impact on the level of industrial disputes. The increase in the level of unemployment which has accompanied the employment policy of this Government has, of course, placed a great degree of in terrorem pressure on the normal industrial relations system of this country. To claim that as an effort of the industrial relations initiative of this Government is quite ridiculous. 
Let us look at some of the specific measures introduced by the Government when talking tough, as it is again doing in the industrial relations area. It always talks tough when there is an election about. Hardly any of the industrial relations legislation which has been introduced into this Parliament by the Fraser Government has been used. It has all been introduced into the Senate in an atmosphere of high drama because of some industrial dispute which has always in reality been solved by the intervention of Bob Hawke and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In the context of this statement the Government is properly concerned that its industrial relations policy is in fact being run by the ACTU. That is where  Mr Hawke  comes into the Transport Workers Union dispute. 
Let us look at some of the specifics of the statement. This is an indication of the tough action that will be taken. The Government's policy, as set out in the statement, provides 'no work as directed, no pay'. That is the Government's policy, and it is very interesting to hear it after all these years. Secondly, the policy provides for stand downs. Thirdly, it provides for applications for stand down and /or suspension clauses to be inserted in awards where they do not presently exist. If I might say so, that exhibits the extraordinary legal confusion in the minds of whoever drew up this statement for the Government, because the statement 'No work as directed; no pay' in fact means the suspension of employment. That is all it can mean. Later on in the third arm of the 'tough' statement, there is the suggestion that the Government will move for stand down and/or suspension clauses to be inserted in awards where they do not exist. Of course that is the traditional procedure which has been adopted by the industrial relations system in this country for a very long time. Before stand down clauses are inserted in awards, there are procedures which take place in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to determine whether it is appropriate for a stand down to take place. Certain criteria have been developed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in this regard. 
At present there is no right in the arbitration system of this country for employees to be suspended. There is no right at common law for employees to be suspended. There is a very proper reason for that. It is because suspension of employment means placing an employee in limbo insofar as his livelihood is concerned. It is for that reason that the system of suspension of employment has not been allowed, has never been allowed, by the authorities in this country. For such a provision to be included in this statement as an arm of government policy is really quite extraordinary and one would ask how the Government intends to implement it. Does the Government intend to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and say to that body:  Look, for the first time in your life, we are asking you to put what we call suspension clauses in awards'? For the first time, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will be asked to do this, presumably by the Minister for Industrial Relations, Tony Street, or by the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack,  or somebody like that. What an extraordinary provision that would be,  Mr President,  if somebody in this Senate were suspended without pay for a particular activity, or, in  Senator Missen  's case, more particularly an inactivity. It would be regarded as reprehensible and of course that would be normal in the employment situation in Australia. 
Of course it is wrong to suspend people without pay, without any defined rights whatsoever. Is it seriously suggested by the Minister that this Government will go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and ask it to indulge in that sort of thing? This is part of the rubbish, the absolute rubbish, which is inherent in this statement. It is quite clearly there. The statement has been thrown together at short notice for the purpose of the forthcoming Victorian election. Malcolm Fraser is stunting again in order to get his friend, Dick Hamer, off the hook and in order that his friend, Dick Hamer, might in turn get him off the hook when his particular problem arises and when he has to go to an election. That is the problem and that is the purpose of this statement. When one looks at some of the specific detail in the statement one can see the sort of rubbish in which the Minister is engaged. 
For years in this place we have had this beefy sort of rhetoric about lost production and concerns of the public and so on. Nobody likes the consequences of industrial action but let us get the matter in perspective just a little. I want to put to the Senate a passage from an article by Professor Clifford Donn of Macquarie University. An extract from this article was published in the  Australian  newspaper in February 1977. At that stage  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, whom we in the Senate are now desperate to get off the hook, was asked what he thought about the contents of this article.  Mr Hamer  said that he thought that the article was very sound, that there was a lot to be said for the views of Professor Donn about industrial relations and that there was a lot of exaggeration in Australia about the consequences of strikes and industrial stoppages. That was  Mr Hamer's  view in 1977. Just listen to what Professor Donn had to say in that article which was discussed in the Melbourne  Herald  of 14 February 1977 and upon which the Premier of Victoria gave his views. Professor Donn said this: 
It is probably safe to conclude that Australia is among a group of the most strike-prone Western countries. That group includes Britain, Canada, Finland, Ireland, Italy and the USA. More specific statements about Australia's strike rating cannot be justified on the basis of existing data. 
In the area of costs, the ILO data vastly exaggerates Australia's strike losses in the strike-prone industries of mining, manufacturing, construction and transport. A more valid measure of the overall economic impact of strikes would include all employees in all of our industries. When this measure is used the ILO figure of 1,390 strike days per 1 ,000 employees is cut by roughly half. If we compare this with the average work year, we can show that approximately one-third of one per cent of all potential worktimes was lost because of industrial disputation in 1975. Thus, less time is lost through strikes than through industrial accidents, a single national holiday, or the common cold. Even this onethird of one per cent of work-time lost exaggerates the economic cost of strikes to society. Lost production is often made up out of overtime or out of inventories maintained for such purposes. Competitors may fill the gap. Often, production doesn't even slow down during a dispute. On occasion, strikes may be precipitated at times of slack economic activity when output is unwanted by the employer; i.e. strikes may substitute for temporary retrenchments. It is sometimes claimed that the economic damage done by strikes is greater than the raw numbers indicate because the losses are disproportionately concentrated in a few industries. However, the other side of this proposition is that there are very large sectors of the economy which are rarely, if ever touched by strike activity . . . 
Australia is not peculiarly strike-prone. Strikes are not a great economic burden and are not a major drag on productivity when management is competent and creative. Finally, the strike often remains the only effective way for employees to resist the unilateral will of employers. Thus, the right to strike constitutes a fundamental freedom in a democratic society. 
That is the statement to which  Mr Hamer  gave his almost unqualified approval in February 1977. Of course what we are concerned about here is what I would call the pre-election werewolf sort of atmosphere which possesses this Government. As the moon goes down on another Liberal government, the dogs begin to howl this sort of jargon which we heard in the Minister's statement and of which I will give honourable senators another classic example. That classic example is what happened in October 1977 when honourable senators on the other side of the House were seeking justification for holding an election a year earlier than their Government ought to have held one. At that time the justification was supplied by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony. His  words were these: 
Sooner or later the Government has to face up to this issue and go to the Australian people and say: 'We are prepared to govern with courage and a sense of responsibility, but you have got to back us'. 
The Government could not stand up to the unions knowing that it only had 'six months life left in a parliament'. 
We've got to know that we're going to stand up there, be firm, and know that we have a period of two or three years in front of us to try and get this country under control. 
That was an interesting statement made in October 1977 by  Mr Anthony.  It makes this statement made tonight look ridiculous because in October 1977,  Mr Anthony  was suggesting in this Parliament that what the Government needed was an early election so that it could get the unions under control and this sort of problem would never arise again. But of course it has arisen again because  Mr Hamer  has a problem in Victoria. 
I have referred to some of the specifics in this statement. I have referred to the ridiculous section about the causes of an improved level of disputation. I have referred to some of the legal concepts in this statement which are just ridiculous. I have referred to the old rhetoric about the need to conduct secret ballots in strikes, a matter which has been debated in the Senate on numerous occasions before. I wish now to refer briefly to the two specific areas of disputation which are referred to in the statement: 
The statement deals with the Transport Workers Union dispute. Undoubtedly, it is a dispute which inconveniences many people in the community. I suppose that it has inconvenienced many honourable senators in the last few days. But this dispute is about a wage issue. Seventy thousand transport workers throughout Australia have received a wage increase of $8 and 30,000 members engaged in the same industry have not. If Government senators have not learnt after three years in government that they cannot handle a dispute on this basis and deny to some what has been given to others in a situation in which traditional relativities are important, and if they have not learnt that such disputes have to be settled by negotiation rather than by the threat of deregistration, then they have learnt nothing. 
I think it is important to refer to the context of this matter. What does the Government hope to achieve by its threat to deregister the Transport Workers Union? Quite clearly, the statement which was brought down tonight hopes to achieve this result: If the transport workers when they meet throughout Australia tomorrow decide to go back to work, the Government will be able to say: 'We frightened them into going back to work. We settled this dispute'. All Government senators will be able to say that tomorrow if the transport workers decide to go back to work. They should all feel beaut because if that happens it will be the first time in the history of the Fraser Government that they have been able to claim that they have done something towards settling an industrial dispute instead of provoking one. There is the possibility of that happening tomorrow because of this statement. Government senators will say: 'The transport workers have decided to go back to work. It was our good work in the Senate. We frightened hell out of them'. That is one thing which Government senators might be able to say. That is why the statement has been brought down. 
The alternative is that the transport workers will not go back to work. Government senators will then be able to say: 'We toughed it out. We went ahead and deregistered them'. Government senators ought to think very seriously about the consequences of that action. I would bet them any money they like that ultimately the Transport Workers Union will not be deregistered. This statement is another piece of huffing and puffing from the Government. If the Union is deregistered the Government will have more disputes on its hands than it could possibly imagine. It will have to put down one of these statements every day until the Victorian election. 
Of course the Government might. That is the cynical way in which it uses the industrial relations system of this country- not as an area of creative policy making and thinking, but as a purely cynical exercise in trying to gain political advantage. That is all industrial relations means to the Government. That is all that this Government's industrial relations policy has ever amounted to. It has done nothing in  3lA  years to introduce legislation directed to solving industrial disputes in this country. We have seen nothing but empty rhetoric. That is a problem about which the Government ought to be very concerned. Government senators ought to think very seriously as 'legislators' about the consequences of this sort of action. It is typical of the whole tone of this statement. 
This statement slides from the sublime to the ridiculous in the really tough suggestion that if the paint manufacturing industry does not stand up to the painters the Government will ensure that the industry is fixed up. It will allow the importation of paint free of duty under by-law in order to make up any shortfall in production. That is the most unique and coloured suggestion that has been made in this statement. To continue the analogy, Government senators are painting themselves into a corner by that suggestion. They should think through the consequences of such an action. On all sorts of occasions and in relation to all sorts of industries Government senators would have to say: 'There will be no more trouble in that industry because we will bring all the stuff in from Taiwan without any duty. We will fix you right up.' I invite Government senators to see how they would get on with the development of that line of industrial relations policy in the next 12 months. It would be edifying indeed to see the development of that policy by this Government. 
Through this statement the Government is saying to the trade unions: 'You blokes have to go to arbitration. We in the Liberal Party are great believers in the arbitration system. The employers do not have to go to arbitration. We will deal with them in another way. The arbitration system is deficient for employers. We will use import duties to threaten employers but we will threaten you with the arbitration system. The problem is that the Government has never really thought through what is involved in the arbitration system and how it works. It is an exercise which I commend to the Government. If it is to work it must be seen to work with fairness and equity to both sides. The Government cannot go outside the system for one section and operate inside the system for the other sections. That problem is inherent in this statement. It has not been considered by the Government. 
One cannot reiterate points sufficiently for Government senators in the interests of this country. I am not speaking in the interests of the Liberal Party for which Government senators use industrial relations in a cynical way. I am concerned about the interests of this country. Government senators should start to cerebrate about the possibility of doing that themselves. I condemn this statement as one of a long line of totally cynical exercises which is provoked again by the moon going down or the blood alcohol going up. Such exercises are always carried out by this Government at the time of a State election or when it has some other problem in respect of which it wants to get off the hook. It will not work. This is a transparently cynical, sloppy and ignorant statement which the Minister has brought down. I very much regret it. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I move: 
Page 3, clause5, sub-clause (1), paragraph (a), line5, leave out 'ultimately'. 
The Opposition has three amendments to clause 5. They have been circulated, I understand, on a printed sheet. Although they are separate amendments, I think it is perhaps convenient for the Committee to deal with them together. 
It appears to be the wish of my colleague to deal with them one at a time; but I will indulge myself by dealing with them together. It is convenient to do so because they all relate to the definition of 'subversion'. The relevant portions of clause 5 state: 
For the purposes of this Act, the activities of persons, other than activities of foreign origin or activities directed against a foreign government, that are to be regarded as subversion are- 
The clause then sets out the matters which are to be regarded as subversion. The first matter with which we take issue appears in clause 5 ( 1 ) (a), where the types of activities which are to be regarded as subversion include: activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence - 
For the purposes of this clause the activities which can be regarded as subversion constitute in a sense an offence against this seciton; that is to say, they constitute an activity and the inclusion of the word 'ultimately' in sub-clause (a) of clause 5(1) really adds nothing to the definition or precision of what is meant by activities which will lead, in the end, to the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts. If that word ultimately' were excluded from this provision it would be related to activities leading to or intended to involve or lead to the use of force or violence. The word 'ultimately' only adds a vagueness to the specification of what is meant. It is a very important definition and one which should be defined with precision in the legislation. The addition of the word 'ultimately' only adds vagueness and uncertainty to what should be a matter of precision. Of course, it becomes a matter of subjective opinion what activities fall within the description of subversion. If the word ultimately' is included, the range for a much wider degree of imagination, when imagination should properly not be allowed, is greatly enhanced. It is for that reason that we suggest the deletion of the word 'ultimately'. 
We have sought in the second amendment which is to clause 5 (1) (b), to insert the word unlawful' before the word 'activities'. Subclause (b) states: activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions or the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth; 
In a sense, it is a fairly vague provision; but activities which would not otherwise be unlawful seem to us to be wrongly prescribed as falling within what might be termed the definition of subversion. For example, there is a wide range of activities in which persons might engage. The activities might include a demonstration with placards advocating a particular view. The view might be directed towards hindering or obstructing the performance of some activity of the Commonwealth. This would not, in itself, be an unlawful activity and therefore, in our submission, it is not one which should be prescribed by the legislation in the way it is. 
Similarly, there may be forms of industrial action of one kind or another which may hinder the Commonwealth in some ways, but they would not be unlawful activities. Under this clause of the Bill, we could potentially be making unlawful activities in society which otherwise might be regarded as quite lawful activities. It is for that reason that we will move this amendment. We see a lack of imagination by the draftsman or the eminence gnse who lurks behind the draftsman in their approach to this clause of the Bill. We again seek further precision in relation to the definition or description of the word subversion'. 
The third amendment relates to the use of the word 'hostility' in sub-clause (c) of clause 5(1). In seeking to define subversion the clause reads as follows: 
activities directed to promoting violence or hostility between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
Now 'activities directed to promoting violence' would presumably be unlawful and undesirable activities. But there may be all sorts of activities which coincidentally or otherwise might promote hostility between persons or groups of persons which are not unlawful activities or activities which could, in the wider stretch of the imagination, in our view, be described as subversive. It is for that reason that we again seek further precision in this somewhat sloppy drafting which occurs in each of the three sub-clauses of clause 5(1). If one looks at the  Oxford Dictionary  definition of expressions like 'subversion' or hostility'- subversion is not even defined in the  Oxford Dictionary- one  finds that the mere reference to the dictionary definition shows the imprecision and sloppiness of terminology which is present in these three sub-clauses of clause 5(1). No doubt other people will wish to contribute to the discussion of these particular amendments, but I assure the Senate that the amendments are designed to improve the legislation, having regard to the general view which the Opposition has of this Bill and the views which have been expressed in no uncertain terms during the course of the second reading debate. They are not meant to be niggling amendments in any way. They are amendments which are put forward in a constructive spirit in relation to what is a very difficult subject matter and that is the definition of subversion or the description of acts which can be regarded as subversive. It is in that spirit that the amendments are put forward. I have taken the opportunity to speak to the three amendments together because it seems to me that the three sub-clauses have the same generic quality about them, that is to say, imprecision, vagueness, uncertainty and sloppiness. 
I have spoken to the three amendments because they related to the definition of subversion but I have not formally moved the amendment to clause 5(1) (c). The arrangement reached with the  Clerk,  which may not have been conveyed to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  was that the Minister should move his amendment first. 
I would like to indicate on behalf of Opposition senators that, in respect of this clause and all subsequent clauses in respect of which amendments have been circulated in my name, the Opposition will be unanimously opposing those clauses. I would like our opposition recorded in those terms. I understand that the Australian Democrats have a position which they would like to indicate on that basis also. 
I just want to probe the Attorney-General's mind on this provision in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I take it from what the AttorneyGeneral has said that any industrial action which had the effect of obstructing, hindering or interfering with the Defence Force, even if it is a goslow campaign, for example, would fall within the provisions of this clause. What I would like the Attorney-General to answer is whether this is the fourth arm of the Government's industrial relations policy as well as a provision which deals in the generality with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
-I present the following petition from 742 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That Compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 197 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations: Has the Government examined the recommendations made by the Federal Executive of the Transport Workers Union in the context of the current industrial dispute? Is the Government aware of the results of meetings held today by the Transport Workers Union? In the light of those two matters- if the Goverment is aware of either or both of them- and in the light of previous statements, what action does the Government now propose about deregistration of the Transport Workers Union? 
-Firstly, I will deal briefly with the point raised by  Senator Puplick  which I found interesting. In effect he said that one does not look at this legislation as it stands but has available to one some sort of time machine by which one goes forward in history to make a judgment about certain actions that take place now which ultimately lead to a certain course of events. I do not follow the argument in the way in which  Senator Puplick  put it. Perhaps it is my fault. One has to construe this legislation as it stands and make a judgment at a particular time about what is to be regarded as subversion. One cannot gain the assistance of foresight, which may be available to one in the future, in making a decision now. I think that the honourable senator has misconstrued the point which the Opposition makes. 
I refer to the observations of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  which seem to be highly confused. If honourable senators look at the provision of clause 5( 1 )(a) they will see that it is clear that the element of intention in the person who is seeking to be subversive within the meaning of the clause is covered; if he engages in activities which involve, will involve or are intended to involve the overthrow of the State by violence and so on. That is the subjective element so far as the person who is judged under the clause is concerned. This clause covers his actions if he engages in activities that involve or are intended to involve any violence or unlawful acts. That is the element of intention. With respect, the word 'ultimately' seems to have a different relationship to the rest of the clause. In this clause it is an element in the subjective judgment of the person who is making the decision about other people. 
If an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agent or operative, or whatever he is called, tries to make a decision as to whether certain activities constitute subversion he is entitled to introduce into his consideration an additional element. He does not have to consider what the intention is of the person now or what his activities are now but he can make an additional category of judgment. Though the activities may be innocuous now, though they may not be intended to lead to violence and the overthrow of the State, if in his opinion they have that element of ultimately leading to this course then they attract the provisions of the clause. It is that conduct to which the word 'ultimately' relates, not the conduct of the person who is being judged as to whether he falls within the provisions of the clause and is thus to be regarded as subversive. The word 'ultimately' is in quite a different category from the other words which are referred to by the Attorney-General. That is why the Opposition moved the amendment. To try to justify the inclusion of the word 'ultimately' in this clause by the woolly reference to the intention of the person concerned is, with respect, no justification at all. 
I move- 
Page 3, clause5, sub-clause (1), paragraph (b), line 9, before ' activities ' insert 'unlawful '. 
The proposal which was referred to yesterday was that the word 'unlawful' be inserted at the beginning of paragraph (b) of clause 5(1) so that the activities referred to in paragraph (b) would be unlawful activities directed to the purposes which are set out in the clause. The reasons for seeking that amendment were explained by me yesterday. I believe that other honourable senators may wish to speak to the same matter; but the purposes of the Opposition amendment, I think, were quite clearly spelt out yesterday. 
-The Opposition is grateful for the concession which has been made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  but with the greatest respect, we still oppose the Government's amendment because it seems to miss the point. I should like again to explain the purpose of our proposed amendment in order to make it clear to the Attorney-General why we reject his amendment and, 1 do it in these terms: Clause 5 ( 1 ) (c) is directed to activities which are directed to promoting violence basically between different groups of persons so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 

 - Senator Evans interjects. Of course, that is a classic example as we from Victoria are conscious at this particular time of the year. The words 'hostility' and 'hatred' are things which can be engendered by activities by a great variety of groups of people in the community but they do not in themselves in any way threaten the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. We say that as a matter of reality and as a matter of fact violence in any form threatens the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth but engendering or engaging in activities encouraged to promote hostility or for that matter hatred- I take it that the Attorney-General has really borrowed the word 'hatred' from some racial discrimination legislation in some place or other- does not as we put it, fall within the purpose of this clause in promoting danger to the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
We appreciate the concession which the Attorney-General has made but we believe he has missed the point. For example, you can sit in an armchair in Melbourne and someone can incite you. We could incite  Senator Missen  to hate, let me say,  Senator Evans.  That would be unbelievable. We could incite him to do that and there would be no threat to the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Thai the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly- 

-When the consideration of this clause was interrupted yesterday I was dealing with the third amendment to clause 5, that is, the one relating to subclause ( 1 ) (c). I do not think I need to reiterate what I said then. The Government has moved an amendment which, by implication, accepts the validity of the proposed amendment which the Opposition has circulated. The Government seeks to substitute for the word 'hostility', which we sought to have deleted, the word 'hatred', which apparently the Government feels is stronger and therefore makes more sense in subclause ( 1 ) (c). We say that the real purpose of the sub-clause and the proper purpose of the sub-clause is 'activities directed to promoting violence' and the words 'hostility' or 'hatred' add nothing but vagueness and confusion to the provisions of that sub-clause when one relates the activities to the result of endangering the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. Accordingly, the Opposition opposes the Government's amendment. Subject to the fate of the Government's amendment, I will have more to say about the Opposition's proposed amendment. 
-The Opposition is in the same position as it was in respect of the previous clause. It seeks to make an insertion into the Bill after clause 19. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 1 9a. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements have been made for the sale of uranium to South Korea. 
Has Australia signed a Nuclear Safeguards Agreement with South Korea. 
Has South Korea signed the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. 
Is South Korea developing a nuclear weapons capacity. 
Will the Government report regularly to Parliament on any agreements reached for the sale of Australian uranium. 
-Did the Minister for Social Security see the report in  Neos Kosmos  which alleged that Commonwealth Police had sent 1 ,000 letters to Sydney Greek people seeking confidential information which would implicate Greek migrants in the alleged pension fraud? In effect, the letter asked them to be police informers. I remind the Minister that I first asked her a question on this subject on 27 February. Has she yet obtained an answer to that question'? 
I move: 
Page 3, after clause 7, insert the following new clause: 7a. (1) The Leader of the Opposition shall be kept informed about security matters by the Director-General regularly consulting with him. 
) Whenever a warrant is issued by the Minister under Division 2 of Part III, the Minister shall notify the Leader of the Opposition without delay informing him of the person or the premises to whom, or to which, the warrant relates. 
The Leader of the Opposition may request the Director-General to inform him as to whether there is in existence any file, dossier or record concerning a particular person and the Director-General shall comply with that request but nothing in this section entitles the Leader of the Opposition to access to any file, dossier or record concerning a particular individual. 
The Minister shall furnish to the Leader of the Opposition a copy of the report of the Director-General referred to in Section 92 of this Act as soon as practicable after the receipt of the report by the Minister from the Director-General. 
The amendment I have just moved provides for the insertion after clause 7 of a new clause 7A. There are a number of provisions in that proposed clause and I will refer to them briefly. The first proposed sub-clause provides for the Leader of the Opposition to be advised or kept informed about security matters by the DirectorGeneral regularly consulting with him. Proposed sub-clause (2) provides for the Minister to notify the Leader of the Opposition without delay in relation to the issue of warrants under Division 2 of Part III. The third proposed sub-clause provides that the Leader of the Opposition may request information from the Director-General in relation to files kept by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation but not, of course, in relation to the contents of files. The fourth proposal relates to the furnishing to the Leader of the Opposition of the report referred to in section 92 as soon as practicable after the receipt by the Minister of the report from the Director-General. 
In this proposed clause we have sought to deal with all the basic matters which relate to the Opposition, and more particularly the Leader of the Opposition, being informed about the activities of the Organisation. When we discussed this matter in the second reading stage of this debate some reference was made to the Report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security and to the comments made by  Mr Justice  Hope on the question of a bipartisan approach to security matters. I refer the Senate again to what  Mr Justice  Hope had to say on this specific matter. At page 219 of the fourth report, Volume 1, paragraph 46 1 ,  His  Honour said: 
If there is to be a bipartisan approach, it is necessary that the opposition party or parties should be informed about security matters, and the appropriate way to do this is by consultation between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, and by reports by the Director-General of Security to the Leader of the Opposition. This practice is regarded as basic in various parts of the democratic world and should be regarded as basic in Australia. With a truly bipartisan approach I think that supervision by the executive and, where appropriate, by a review tribunal, will protect both the interests of the nation and the interests of citizens. 
That was the approach of  Mr Justice  Hope to this question. As I have said, he emphasised in more detail in that report the desirability, in his view, of a bipartisan approach to an organisation of this kind. 
The purpose of that suggestion by  Mr Justice  Hope is clearly that, if we feel that we have to have an organisation such as ASIO, then in the interests of the community it is desirable that it be accepted and respected as much as possible by as broad a spectrum of community opinion as possible. If that happened, we would not get a situation such as that which developed in America with the Central Intelligence Agency and at times with the Federal Bureau of Investigation; we would not get the sort of situation which occurred in West Germany and at times in French politics with the French security organisation; we would not get the situation that we had in Australia in the mid-1950s and early 1960s when a number of people in this community felt- with some degree of substantial reason, I think- that ASIO was not above reproach, could not be accepted in a bipartisan spirit, and could not be accepted as an organisation which was working in the national interest exclusively and at no stage in the interests of a particular political point of view. 
It is for that reason that we are concerned about the contents of this amendment. We like to think that the Government has moved a couple of amendments in response to our initiatives in this matter. Government amendment No. 3 is very close in its terminology to the wording of proposed new clause 7A ( 1 ). The Government has suggested that that amendment be inserted as new clause 20A in a later portion of the Bill. There does not seem to be any logic or reason for its insertion there rather than here, but it is a difficult decision to make. We too had difficulty in deciding where our amendment should be placed. 
Yes. Government amendment No. 8 inserts a provision that is broadly similar to the provision contained in subclause (4) of proposed new clause 7A relating to the furnishing to the Leader of the Opposition of the report of the Director-General. I do not propose to deal in detail with the Government amendments at this stage. It is sufficient to say that in the context of this Bill we commend to the Government the notion that these matters which embrace questions of bipartisanship and consultation with the Opposition should be dealt with in one hit, as it were, in one clause of the Bill, in the way the Opposition has suggested. We commend the response of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to the initiative contained in the Opposition's amendment which deals with consultation with the Leader of the Opposition by the Director-General and, of course, in relation to the furnishing of the report. We think that agreement on these things is a prerequisite to any degree of broad community acceptance of the charter and function of an organisation such as this. 
One could offer some specific criticisms of the terminology of the Government's proposed amendment, particularly the second amendment which relates to the furnishing of the report, but it is not my purpose to do that now. My purpose is to say that these matters are of fundamental importance to the structure of this Bill. They are of fundamental importance to the philosophical concept which underlies it and they, in our view, should be included together in the manner which we have suggested by the insertion of this proposed new clause. In relation to this question of the issue of warrants, the Government seems to feel reluctant to agree that any information can be supplied about it. I am referring to subclause (2) of proposed new clause 7a. When  Mr Justice  Murphy was the Attorney-General he did not feel any great inhibition about answering a question in this Senate about the number of times- I do not think warrants were involvedASIO was allowed to make telephonic interceptions and how many interceptions of that kind were carried out in each of a number of years. For the life of me I cannot see why the Parliament of Australia should not have that sort of information. We do not necessarily have to know whose telephone was intercepted and we do not need to know the details of the interception. It is an interesting matter and it would be a very good way of monitoring the activities of an organisation such as this if we could ascertain the progression of the number of telephone interceptions and so on in various years. I remember that in the five years in respect of which AttorneyGeneral Murphy answered such a question there had been a very slow progression in the number of telephone interceptions each year. I think that in the last year, which was 1973 or 1974 the number of telephone interceptions reached the figure of 107. Any member of the public can look at those sorts of figures and say: 'This sort of thing about which we were so concerned when the ASIO Bill was in the Parliament clearly has not got out of hand. Just look at the figures. They are not intercepting many more telephone conversations than they were in days gone by'. Perhaps they could draw the other conclusion if it was clear that a whole lot of telephone interceptions were taking place. 
I mention that point here because of the Government's general reluctance to grapple conceptually with that sort of thing. It is largely a conservative attitude which is dictated by too much reading of John Le Carre or someone like him late at night. I commend the writings of John Le Carre to the Minister. We have often had discussions about books one should read. I commend his books to the Attorney-General, but not in order that he might develop the approach that it is absolutely necessary that none of this information be made available to the Parliament or to the people. I think it is important that this information is available. Of course, in the terms of this amendment, it is important that that son of information is available to the Leader of the Opposition in the context of what I put earlier. That sort of material is referred to in sub-clauses (2) and (3) of proposed new clause 7a. 
In summary, we think this is a very crucial and important point from the public point of view of this legislation. We think that the points embraced in proposed new clause 7a are properly matters dealt with together so that a member of the public concerned about what rights the Opposition has, or persons other than the Minister and the Director-General have, in relation to this legislation can see it in one clause of the Bill. For those reasons, I commend to the Senate the insertion in the Bill of proposed new clause  7A. 
-As the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has pointed out there is a mild difference between the amendment which stands in the name of the Opposition and the amendment moved by the Attorney-General. Once again I might say that we appreciate the Government's amendment in regard to this clause. It seems to us to be a perfectly logical amendment having regard to other provisions of the Bill. Logic dictates that it should be in the Bill. I find this abundance of caution about it being impractical to accept the wording of our amendment really quite extraordinary. I do not know what was in the draftsman's head at the time. That provision could be inserted in almost any clause of any Bill passed by this Parliament if we accept the basis of the argument which the Attorney-General has put to the Senate in the last few minutes. It may be that somebody has died or is not an officer of the Parliament at the precise time that the DirectorGeneral retires. We just do not see the words as being particularly necessary. It may provide an opportunity for a person who adopts a degree of arrogance or fails to adopt a degree of bipartisanship which we hope would arise from the passing of this legislation to say: 'It was not practicable for me to consult with the Leader of the Opposition about this aspect', and that would be the end of it. It is just another thin end of the wedge argument on the whole question of the bipartisan approach to the legislation. We just do not see the words as being necessary. I must say in all seriousness that when I first saw the Government's amendment I looked at some of my colleagues and we nodded at each other indicating that we might as well accept it, but for the first time in my life the more I talk the more I am persuading myself- I do not know whether I have persuaded anybody else- that the Government's amendment is wrong and that ours is preferable. 
-Yes. I take it no further than that. 
I support the comments made by  Senator Cavanagh.  The ramifications of the absence from the Bill of any provision like the Opposition's amendment are quite extraordinary because we, as a Commonwealth Parliament, are taking steps to ensure as far as we can- and this has been the spirit of the discussion in this chamber- that the rights of individuals are protected as much as possible by this legislation. We have a difference of opinion about how far we have to go in order to protect the rights of individuals. That is the substance of the difference between the Government and the Opposition. But unless there is a provision like this in the legislation- as  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out- information affecting individuals quite vitally in their careers can be passed to State authorities. If the information can be passed to State authorities, and although the legislation does not provide this, you can imagine that in extreme circumstances legislation could be given to governments which have quite contrary views from this Parliament- from either side of this Parliament- about the nature of legislation of this kind and the important aspect of its protection of civil liberties as far as possible. 
It may involve the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in some onerous decision making from time to time but undoubtedly that would be a good exercise for him to indulge in. I am sure he would be happy to make a judgment about those matters if this clause was adopted in the Bill. The Opposition feels strongly about this matter because in essence it relates to past experience as well as future desirabilities. Past experience on the relationship between the Australian Security Intelligence Organization and State special branches, for example, was a matter of very adverse comment by  Mr Justice  Hope. That past experience suggests only one thing, that you cannot be too careful about this matter. We should have the highest standards in this legislation upon which we, as two opposed sides, can agree. It is because of that that the Opposition moves and supports these amendments. 
I am not quite clear from what the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said whether the Government will make alterations to the Bill to ensure that it will be done in the way in which he described. 
That is the way I understood it. Already we have had lengthy discussions about the fact that we cannot build legislation around a particular Director-General. All senators have spoken very favourably about the present Director-General but the fact is he is not immortal- not to my knowledge, anywayand at some stage he may be replaced. What the Opposition would like from the AttorneyGeneral is some undertaking that the Bill will be amended to see that that course is followed. The Attorney-General referred earlier to the desire of the Government to ensure that by the Security Appeals Tribunal arrangement there is not a conduit through which information about people can flow, but this is a great hole in any conduit in this legislation because it can be used in a most undesirable way. 
The Opposition appreciates the AttorneyGeneral's concern about the point we have raised. It may be that there can be a better way to solve the problem than the one which the Opposition has suggested. However, we would appreciate some undertaking that it would be in legislative form; otherwise we can go right through this Bill and receive letters from  Mr Justice  Woodward telling us what a good fellow he is going to be, but it is not much help to any member of the public reading the legislation afterwards. 
-I refer the AttorneyGeneral to recent criticisms of the delays in the Victorian Family Court due to inadequate staffing and to the threat, as foreshadowed by some of the critics, of a breakdown in the system of the Family Court in Victoria. Does the Attorney-General agree with his predecessor,  Mr Ellicott,  that the appropriate ratio of counsellors to judges in the Family Court is two to one? Does he further agree with the Victorian Bar Council and the Law Institute of Victoria that an immediate appointment of at least four judges is required as a matter of urgency and that the present allocation of administrative staff in Victoria is grossly inadequate to cope with the demands placed upon staff? If he accepts that the numbers of the various types of court staff referred to are inadequate when will the Government move to provide further staff and judges? 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Briefly, I concur with the observations of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  about the work of the Education Research and Development Committee. Unfortunately, I have not had the opportunity of perusing the report to which the Minister refers. I believe many honourable senators will have had the chance of reading, for example, the Fensham, Powell and Anderson report concerning the social composition of tertiary students, which is a very important report. I think in an earlier debate in this place the Minister described this report as reaching conclusions which might be slightly premature, an observation with which I respectfully agree. But nonetheless it is a very significant and important piece of work in terms of the aspirations of the Government in regard to the abolition of tertiary fees. Similarly, the report by  Mrs Blakers,  which I think was largely a work commissioned by the Australian Council of State School Organisations, contains some very valuable material which is important in relation to that aspect of the debate. I am not prepared or able to make any observations about  Dr Sheldrake's  report on medical education in Australia. 1 think it is important, however, that the work of the Education Research and Development Committee be recognised. While I do not share the Minister's view, which I find profoundly optimistic, that the Committee has had success in crystal ball gazing, which I think is an almost impossible educational task, it is important that this work is being done. The Opposition likewise commends the work of the Committee to the Senate. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How much money has been committed to the National School Library Cataloguing Pilot Scheme of the Australian Schools Commission. 
2 ) What are the extent and status ofthe scheme. 
3 ) What priority does the scheme enjoy. 
ls it likely to be stopped in future, due to restrictions on funds. 
What steps are being taken to promote the success of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 March 1979 : 
Has the Minister or the Tertiary Education Commission enunciated any policy relating to the employment in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education of overseas academic personnel. 
I give notice that contingent upon the Senate proceeding to the consideration of the third reading of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill 1 979 and associated Bills, I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders bc suspended as would prevent  Senator Button  moving an amendment to the motion for the third reading of the Bills to refer the Bills to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and refer him to the report in today's  Age  relating to the closure in Victoria of the Nunawading Legal Service due to lack of government funding and to unsuccessful attempts by the Law Institute of Victoria to keep the Service open. According to the report in the  Age  the Service is waiting to hear from the Victorian and Commonwealth governments as to whether any further funding will be available. I ask the Attorney-General whether he has received a request for funding from the Nunawading Legal Service? If so, when did he receive that request? Can the Attorney-General confirm that the Federal Government will soon be making funds available to rescue the Service? 
-If the argument of the Australian Labor Party stands in ruins, it is not as a result of anything  Senator Carrick  has said. Whilst listening to him speaking, 1 was reminded very much of a line from T. S. Eliot which frequently occurs to me. For the benefit of people like  Senator Young,  I point out that he is a very distinguished British poet, who once said that the human mind cannot bear too much reality. That becomes the understatement of the whole human endeavour when it is applied to  Senator Carrick. Senator Carrick  cannot bear any ofthe realities which were advanced in argument by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  in this debate. Also, it has been unkindly said of  Senator Carrick  that he approaches every problem with an open mouth. The style of debate in which he engaged today made it quite clear that he had not resiled from that position which he has adopted in the past. It is quite an extraordinary performance for the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs to come into the Senate today and indulge in some of the-- 
-But he is the architect. It is extraordinary for him to come into the Senate and indulge in the sort of arguments in which he indulged. I am totally bored by  Senator Carrick  's lectures in comparative politics, as one might call them. The argument of  Senator Carrick  in comparative politics is really beginning to wear thin. The comparisons which are made with figures plucked from the air in many circumstances are between the period of this Government and the period of the Whitlam Government.  Senator Carrick  ignores one very important fact in making that sort of comparison. I refer to the circumstances in which his Government came to power in 1975 and the circumstances in which he acted in this Senate in order to achieve power in 1 975. Those points carried with them the implications which still exist today- that he, as a Minister, and the Liberals as a Government, could do better in respect of all these matters than the Labor Government had done. That is the underlying assumption upon which all that action in 1975 took place. It was the assumption which was supported by  promises  made by the Liberal Government on many issues since then which have not been honoured. 

 Senator Carrick embarked upon the 1942  Time  magazine joke of trying to remember the name of  Mr Wilkes,  the next Premier of Victoria. It was funny when it first appeared in American politics in 1942 but it is a bit old now. He should be reminded that very substantially he is avoiding the issue in attacking the Leader of the Opposition in Victoria and in trying to engage in every possible argument around the traps but not dealing with the essential points which were raised by  Senator Wriedt  in his remarks earlier today. The essence of the argument put by  Senator Wriedt  is that at the Premiers Conference, at which the stages of the so-called new federalism were first discussed, the scheme was agreed to on a tax sharing formula. As  Senator Wriedt  pointed out, some of the Premiers were concerned about the details of that forumla and how it would work in practice. So the guarantee was written into the agreement that there would be no payments to the States lower than the payments which were made, in fact, in the last years of the Whitlam Government. That guarantee is to expire very shortly. The issue that  Senator Wriedt  is raising in the Senate, which is important if this Senate has any vestiges of a States House role, is simply this: When that guarantee expires, having regard to the Government's abortive attempts at tax indexation and a number of other matters, what will be the contribution which the States will then get from the national Government? 
One has to look at that situation in the light of very real and explicit statements by  Senator Carrick,  by  Mr Fraser,  the Prime Minister, by  Sir Eric  Willis in New South Wales, by  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia and by  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, that at a later stage of the new federalism it was quite implicit that State governments would introduce income tax in their respective States. The position of the Labor governments in New South Wales, South 
Australia and Tasmania has been made quite clear in this issue but the position of the conservative governments has also been made quite clear.  Sir Eric  Willis made it clear prior to the New South Wales election. It is interesting to recall that prior to the New South Wales election,  Senator Carrick,  in supporting  Sir Eric  Willis, delivered almost the same speech as he has delivered today, prior to the Victorian election. We all know what happened to  Sir Eric  Willis and what happened in New South Wales. The fact of the matter is that on each occasion when these gentlemen have had the opportunity to express their views about this question, they have made it quite clear that notionally at least they support the Fraser Government's policy in relation to this matter and they support the introduction of State income taxes. 
Of course, the problem which will face Victorian electors on Saturday in this regard is not that of dealing with the sort of air plucking, hotspur-like issues with which  Senator Carrick  deals, as he summons figures from the vasty deep. The problem they have to face is whether they wish to return a government, decadent by any standards, which is committed ideologically and philosophically to the introduction of State income taxes. They have to decide whether they return  Mr Hamer  as a member of the Premiers Conference. The conservative Premiers who attend that Conference are ideologically and philosophically committed to the introduction of State income taxes. The people of Victoria have to decide whether they will put  Mr Hamer  back into that position or make a change. If they make a change they will be making a change to a political party in Victoria which, like Labor governments in other States, is committed to standing against the introduction of State income taxes and to adopting a different attitude at the Premiers Conference. That is the crucial and simple issue. In addition to the other matters which Victorians have to weigh up in any forthcoming election, they have to consider that matter as a matter of fundamental importance to their own well-being. 
I said that  Senator Carrick  and  Mr Fraser,  as the architects of the so-called new federalism, have consistently advocated State income taxes in the development of the federalism policy. Today  Senator Carrick  spoke as if he had never articulated a word in public in support of new federalism, as if in reality he had nothing to do with it. As he put it in a rather glib generalisation, a broad brush approach if ever there was one, all States have been able to reduce taxes. This allegation does not stand up, if one examines the totality of the position. In his broad brush approach he says: 'Look, the whole thing is working'. Of course in the future he will be reminded of his words today. That is no doubt about the basis of the chronic anxiety he displayed in the speech which he made to the Senate today. 
In fact, listening to the speech, I did not get much by way of fact. I did not hear much by way of argument to counter what had been put by  Senator Wriedt.  A lot of his speech revealed to me a chronic anxiety state about the Victorian election which is due on Saturday. I am sorry that he did not bring Margaret Thatcher into it too; he is probably rather anxious about her. He revealed a state of chronic anxiety about the forthcoming events which will deal another blow to the arguments, the edifice, which he and  Mr Fraser  have built on sand with the support of those very inferior tradesmen,  Sir Charles  Court, Dick Hamer and the much lamented  Sir Eric  Willis, who has since departed from politics. We heard nothing of substance in defence of the federalism policy or in answer to what  Senator Wriedt  had to say. He simply described  Senator Wriedt  as a born loser. In using that description  Senator Carrick  should be very mindful of the tortoise and the hare. The reality of the situation is that  Senator Carrick  knows that the implications of the new federalism are- if I may use a metaphor which might be risky- now coming home to roost. For the people of Victoria the implications, in a sense, come home to roost in the decision they have to make next Saturday. It is horrifying for them to contemplate the return of the present Government, which has a very real record of economic mismanagement. 

 Senator Carrick spoke of land taxes. I am surprised he was even game to mention these words in the Senate. Very real and disastrous consequences face the people of Victoria if they return the Hamer Government in a fit of aberration, which is something in which no responsible Australian elector should allow himself to indulge. Manifold consequences would flow from the return of the Hamer Government, but the one to which we wish to draw the attention of the Victorian people in this debate is that their State would be put at risk, not only in economic management generally, but more specifically in the management of the affairs of the people. If the people returned the Hamer Government they would put themselves at risk because of the likely imposition of State income taxes by a government committed to it. 

 Mr Hamer has not emerged at any stage in Australian politics as one who could be described as remotely resembling a strong man. But one thing is quite clear about him. In all of his mumblings he has given very clear lip service at the Premiers Conference to the views which have been put by people such as  Senator Carrick  and  Mr Fraser  on this issue of taxation. As I have said, he is idealogically and philosophically committed to it. Perhaps he does not understand it, but that is his position. The alternative government in Victoria is not only committed to better management in a wide variety of areas, but is also committed to a totally different policy on taxation imposed by the State of Victoria. That is the key issue to which we seek direct attention in this debate. 
Anybody listening to  Senator Carrick  would be pardoned for drawing all sorts of bizarre conclusions about what the debate was all about. Through long practice he has developed an assiduity for failing to deal with issues. That is why I unkindly said that his mind cannot bear too much reality.  Senator Wriedt  spoke about very real matters which will concern the people of Victoria on Saturday. They will affect their pockets in the future and affect the future of their State.  Senator Wriedt  has raised the question of State income taxes before and he will raise it again, lt will come up again and again, until this Government recognises that its new federalism policy on State income tax has been an utter failure. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The statement brought down by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  deals with a review of arrangements which were made in the stevedoring industry finally, if I can use that expression, some 12 months ago. Those members of the Senate who have been here for three or four years will remember that this matter was the subject of perpetual annual adjournment debates as the Government grappled with the difficult problems of a very difficult industry. 
-Senator Harradine rightfully recalls the much lamented  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright who made important contributions to the debate about the stevedoring industry. He did not always express views which I was able to share. Nonetheless, I think he had a profound knowledge of the subject and was very concerned about the implications of the phasing out of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. I will make one or two comments about the 12 month's review by the working party. In so doing, I think it is worth reminding the Senate that this has historically, for very valid reasons, been a very troubled industry in Australia. The troubles can be seen by implication in the statement which the Minister has just put down in the Senate. They are the problems of a very flexible- and necessarily flexible- and mobile work force when ships come and go. At one stage there is a glut of work, if I can put it in those terms, and at other stages an absolute dearth of work, even in major ports, and there are the very real problems of the smaller and minor ports throughout Australia in which there is a totally diverse system of labour relations which operates because of the conditions which pertain to those ports as distinct from major ports. 
In dealing with this report and the industrial relations aspect of it, the statement by the Minister refers to the question of industrial unrest in a manner which I think is contrary to the spirit of the working party's actual report. I think it is fair to say, if one can draw this implication from the Minister's statement, that the working party was satisfied that, in view of the fact that this was an industry in which slow progress could and had to be made in dealing with the industrial relations problems of the industry, the progress made so far in the 12 months covered by the working party's deliberations has been very satisfactory. 
The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  on whose behalf this statement was made by  Senator Guilfoyle,  however, was less charitable in his view of the improvement which has taken place in industrial relations. There is one very important point which I think is implicit, although it is not spelt out in the Minister's statement. That is the fact that the arrangements which this Parliament agreed upon with regard to industrial relations in the stevedoring industry relate to an arrangement between the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and members of that Federation and the stevedoring employers. I think it is perhaps less than fair for the Minister to refer to industrial relations on the waterfront without mentioning one very important fact, which is a fact of industrial relations which he has been terribly nervous about grappling with. That is the fact that there is a multiplicity of unions engaged in waterfront operations in this country. There are all sorts of estimates given, but those members of the Senate who read their newspapers will know that either this week or last week there was a stoppage in the port of Sydney which related to this very question of relationships between that multiplicity of unions other than the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia which operates in that port and which affects the turnover of the port, the costs of the operation of the stevedoring industry, and a variety of matters which go to the whole question of the high costs of stevedoring in this country. 
I think it is worth drawing the attention of the Senate to the fact that that is the nettle in industrial relations, as this statement indicates, which this Government is just not prepared to grasp. Time and time again it has consistently opposed in this Parliament any arrangements or amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act which would provide for an amalgamation of unions in industry situations like the stevedoring industry. That is a classic example of senators on the Government side going to the wailing wall and talking about the high cost of stevedoring in this country, yet never being prepared to grasp that very essential point which is touched on only in passing in the Minister's statement. 1 have not had the opportunity of reading the report of the working party in detail. I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that the deliberations of the working party apply basically to those two bodies- the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and the employer stevedores. They do not apply to the variety of other people engaged in the stevedoring industry and who affect the cost of stevedoring operations and the efficiency of port operations in this country. The relevant Minister and this Government can set up all the working parties in the world on this problem, but they will never get to the heart of this matter until they tackle this question of the need to see stevedoring as an industry which embraces a far wider collection of organisations and people than just the two bodies which are dealt with by the working party. 
-Yes. I do not retreat from that proposition. The honourable senator asked me whether the consultative council had been useful. The answer, of course, is yes. The statement says that, and I feel that that is the fact. If the consultative council was able to go a little wider in some of its deliberations, I think it would be of great benefit to industrial relations in this country and of great benefit to this country as a whole. I commend the statement of the working party as representing a report on slow progress in relation to the stevedoring industry in this country. It is to be hoped that there will be a further report in a year's time in which we can perhaps anticipate a little quicker progress. If the Government would be good enough to act on what I regard as the essential problem and defect in this industry, there would be much more rapid progress indeed. 
-Senator Evans made and illustrated the point that, in relation to provisions of this kind, it is important that we learn from our experience. What I am more concerned about, however, is that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has seen fit to try to tackle this problem by an amendment consequent upon clause 38 by inserting a new clause 38a. This is about the fourth time that this has happened during the course of the debate on our very few amendments to this legislation. The Opposition suggests something; the Attorney sees the point of it; then he goes away and chooses a marginally different word or a different part of the Bill into which to insert a provision which is designed to achieve the same effect, albeit in a much less satisfactory fashion than the Opposition's amendment seeks to do. I do not know what course we intend to take if this legislation is to be dealt with in this way on all future occasions when an amendment is proposed. 
The only other matter that I wish to raise about this provision is that  Senator Durack  has displayed what we would regard as totally undue senstitivity to what he perceives to be the concern and the interests of State governments in this matter. I appreciate his being sensitive to the interests of State governments, but it is really not a situation, as  Senator Evans  has suggested, in which anything onerous is being imposed in any way on State governments, except the obligation that if they want certain information from the Commonwealth they will impose higher standards in relation to the manner in which they treat their employees. We do that in all sorts of ways. For example, under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we impose standards on States. We do not do this in any onerous way, which  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment would suggest. I only say again that I think it is an extraordinarily and unnecessarily sensitive approach to a sort of non-issue. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral might be persuaded that the way which is now foreshadowed as tackling this problem is perhaps not the best way after all and in fact is quite unnecessary. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether it is correct that some hundreds of copies of a potentially valuable report on the television viewing habits of Australian children, produced by the research unit of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and printed by the Australian Government Publishing Service, have recently been pulped at the direct order of  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the report dealt with the viewing habits of a large number of children in the 10 and 12 years age group? Did it deal with such questions as the effect of advertising in children's programs, the amount of time spent by children viewing programs and also with complaints made by parents about advertising in children's programs? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the reason, if any, given to the Government for the suppression and destruction of this report? 
-by leaveSenator Georges says he is up in the air. That is something about which we might talk when dealing with the question of broadcasting. The report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which has just been brought down by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  is not yet available to members of the Opposition. I have not had the opportunity of reading it. However, I do think that it is important that we note at this stage of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 's history that the achievement of all the aspirations of people who have been interested in broadcasting and concerned about standards, particularly in television, seem to have failed. If I might say so, in this Government an articulate Minister seems to be presiding over the greatest mess that this country has ever known in broadcasting. 
One of the signatories to this report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal,  Mrs Janet  Strickland, resigned a month or so ago. In stating the reasons for her resignation, she made it quite clear that as far as she was concerned the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal was no longer serving, to some degree at least, its expressed aim of representing public interest in this country. Looking at the history of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, honourable senators will recall that it had its first hearings in Hobart late in 1976. On that occasion objection was taken to the appointment of the  Chairman  of the Tribunal, and objection was also raised in a more tentative way by certain other members to the constitution of the Tribunal. 
I believe that the most significant document on broadcasting in this country in recent years, and there are not many very significant documents, is the document to which  Senator Puplick  referred in his lengthy speech on the adjournment the other night, that is, the Green report on the inquiry into Australian broadcasting. There have been a number of other reports since, such as the report of the Tribunal itself on self-regulation in Australian broadcasting, and various other documents relating to ethnic broadcasting and things of that kind. But the Green inquiry, which was commissioned by the Government and presided over by  Mr Green,  who subsequently became the permanent head of the Department of Post and Telecommunications, really made a very credible attempt to assess the balance of forces within broadcasting in Australia, the future technological developments which were likely to take place, and matters such as the development of frequency modulation radio, the possible development of such technological innovations in this country as cable television, and related matters. 
However, more particularly the Green report laid down a structure for broadcasting which 1 think was basically acceptable to the broad stream of Australian public opinion concerned about balance within the broadcasting structure. For example, the Green report set out to define a role for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, a role which I think has declined in significance because of the same chaotic problems which possess broadcasting in the Australian Broadcasting Commission and are symptomatic of broadcasting generally in this country. There are organisational problems and problems of structure and balance, and the Opposition in the Senate has continually advocated that there should be a royal commission into the management of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, simply because the Commission seems to us to be suffering from a process of hardening of the arteries, a lack of imagination in management, perhaps an excess of fat in certain areas and certainly a drastic leanness in areas of programming and production. These imbalances are quite apparent in the Australian Broadcasting Commission. They are matters which were foreshadowed in discussions in the Green report. 
The other important elements of the broadcasting structure envisaged by the Green report, which as I say is an important and valuable document to go back to, were the need for the quite unique structure of Australian broadcasting, the high concentration of ownership in few hands, the need for certain checks and balances between private interest and public interest and the need to provide a system of public accountability of private broadcasters to a body such as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. Those notions which the Green report put forward and which could be regarded as impeccable in a society such as the United States, which has a very strong tradition with which we are perhaps unfamiliar in Australia of the need for public accountability in organisations and areas of this kind-- 
Yes, and limited ownership, the tradition there being very different. I think the important point was that there should be a method of public accountability provided. The Broadcasting Tribunal was singled out as the vehicle to provide that method of public accountability. The Green report recommended a number of other bodies which would provide checks and balances in the broadcasting system. For example, for a long time there has been an important concern about children's television. There has been concern about the establishment of a broadcasting council. The Green inquiry recommended that. There has been concern about the establishment of a body to which the public could make complaints about television in particular and about broadcasting generally. None of these other bodies which were considered to be complementary to the Broadcasting Tribunal have been established by this Government because of pressure from owners of commercial television and radio stations. 
So, the whole system was aborted by the ideological fiat of this Government, right from the beginning. That is why the unhappy Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  who talks so glibly on television about it all, at this stage really finds himself in the centre of an unholy mess. Look at the mess he has got himself into now, when four members of the Broadcasting Tribunal, all ex-employees of commercial television, remain on that Tribunal. The only person identified in the public mind as representing the public interests because she was prepared to make a stand on a number of public interest questions,  Mrs Janet  Strickland, has resigned. One might ask the Minister how  Mrs Strickland  can be replaced. Does he continue the old form and replace her with another person from the commercial broadcasting sector? Where does he find a person who is prepared to accept the hot seat of standing up for the public interest on the Broadcasting Tribunal, as she manifestly did? 
-With the greatest respect,  Senator Walters, Mrs Strickland  is a very intelligent woman. Women are no different from men in that regard. One cannot just say: 'Any woman', like that. I would prefer an intelligent woman. Where does one find a person who can fulfil that role on the Australian Broadcasting 
Tribunal? That is the sort of mess the present Minister has got himself into in regard to that matter. Time and time again one hears criticisms of the Tribunal. More recently, the criticism was not only because of the bizarre private behaviour of certain members of the Tribunal as entertainers rather than as quasi-judicial figures as they might be, but also because of the continued problems of trying to administer the Tribunal and take into account the question of public interest and receive submissions from members of the public about these very important questions of standards, for example, in television programming. 
There has been widespread publicity given to the recent Tribunal hearings in Sydney. They brought discredit on the whole system. Perhaps the system is wrong. If I might adapt an expression I have used about  Senator Carrick, Mr Gyngell  has the problem of approaching every problem with an open mouth instead of an open mind. 
It is also appropriate in the honourable senator's case. From time to time  Mr Gyngell  has off the cuff volunteered certain ways in which this problem might be solved. The question that the Tribunal has to face up to now is whether it will take away the licence of a television channel because of misconduct of some kind. It is totally unreal and absurd to contemplate the licence of a television channel like Channel 7 or Channel 9 being taken away. Those of us who are concerned about the political predilections and economic interests of the owners of television stations will know that, by the very nature of the beasts, they cannot in any sense conduct a television channel which is representative of the public interest as one would hope it to be. 
For example, if we were to take a licence away from Kerry Packer, who would we give it to? Would we give it to Alan Bond? He would just run the station less efficiently. There is a tremendous problem in terms of vast resources tied up in television channels. It would be a bold government that tried to take away television licences.  Mr Gyngell  volunteered the view at some party that the best way to deal with defaulting commercial television channels that did not provide programs of adequate standard, was to introduce the notion of 'promise of performance'. In seeking the renewal of their licences the television channels in answer to public submissions would have to say: 'We will improve our programming in this way. We will provide more and better children's television. We will reduce the amount of advertising at particular times'. They would have to give that promise of performance to meet many of the public criticisms. 

 Mr Gyngell then volunteered the view, for which he obviously has been chastised in high places, that the way to administer the promise of performance would to punish defaulters, if I can put it that way, by fining them a substantial amount such as three months revenue- a few million dollars. This would be the penalty for failing to comply with their promise to provide programs of a certain standard. Of course, that is a very good suggestion which has a lot of merit and which the Government should consider. 
The debate on this matter has become very waffly with members of the public saying: 'We think all this is wrong with television'. The Tribunal then says: 'We cannot take away the licence that these people hold. We will renew the licence and we will pat you members of the public on the head. You can go away and come back in three years time and have the same gripes. We will treat you the same way'. That is the message that the members of the public have received. There is no satisfaction in it for them. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has to face up to the task of marrying the notion of public accountability to the very important question of administering the system of licence holding. The Government has manifestly failed to do that. The basic reason for the failure is that it has not established the sort of checks and balances on the broadcasting structure which the Green committee of inquiry recommended almost three years ago. The Government has retreated from the brink every time in dealing with the hard issues such as establishing a broadcasting information office, which would make information about broadcasting available to the public. The Government has retreated from the hard issue of establishing a broadcasting council which would be responsible for advising the Government on broadcasting policy. It has retreated from the hard issue of granting public broadcasting licences to ethnic communities so that they can do their own thing, rather than having this ridiculous and absurd Special Broadcasting Service imposed upon them as some sort of Goebbels-like overview body which will supervise ethnic broadcasting in this country. 
Because it has retreated from all the hard decisions in the past under commercial pressure, the Government now finds itself in an incredible bind. It is important that we in the Senate try to point to ways out of that bind. Some of the ways have been referred to in the course of my earlier comments. 
The Broadcasting Tribunal system is in total disarray; it is in disrespect. It has little respect from the commercial operators and little respect from the public. It is a very bad thing for this Government and it is a bad thing for the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I hope we will have further opportunity to debate these important issues in the Senate. However, it is important to state these matters now when the report of the Tribunal is being put down, and to state them in the context of recognising the significance of past mistakes in the contemporary situation which have resulted, as I say, in an utter mess in the broadcasting system of this country. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- by leaveSenator Button said that he did not receive a copy of the report in .advance. My understanding of the practice is that statements are provided in advance and that reports of this nature are tabled, although on occasions, as an individual act, Ministers provide them earlier. But I understand there has been no breach of the normal arrangements between government and Opposition. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer what indicators exist by which the Government can study the impact of" the investment allowance on investment, employment and output, both at a macro-economic and a micro-economic level. 
-l support the motion which has been moved by my leader,  Senator Wriedt.  In so doing, I am indebted to the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  for rereading to honourable senators the  Hansard  of last Thursday. Of course, that is precisely why the motion has been moved today. We have all read  Hansard of  last Thursday. It is precisely because of what was said on Thursday that this motion is brought before the Senate today. The Minister, in his speech, tried to avoid a very serious charge that he misled the Parliament. That is a charge to which I wish to refer in general terms, and the particulars of which have been dealt with very well by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Ministers in this place when they have spoken on earlier matters dealt with in the Senate. On 8 August 1978, in dealing with the report of the McGregor Royal Commission the Prime Minister purported to lay down certain standards which he applies to Ministers in this Government. I quote what the Prime Minister had to say on that occasion: 
We had no doubt that our first and foremost responsibility was the maintenance of the high standards of propriety set and maintained by this Government. 
The community rightly demands a high standard from the Ministers of the Government. The judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life. If these high standards were not upheld, the people's confidence in government- a confidence which is fundamental to Australian democracy- would be undermined. 
The Government has an obligation to uphold them even though the cost can be and is in this instance, a high one. 
It was a very high one indeed in the instance to which the Prime Minister referred.  Senator Webster  should be reminded of those words. By a series of evasions,  Senator Webster  has tried to dismiss the substance of a whole sequence of questions and two very important letters which go to the heart of this matter. Lest there be any doubt about that, it is interesting to look at the last question he was asked by  Senator Wriedt  on 3 May last. When a question concerning the letters from  Mr Newman  to  Senator Webster  and the reply from  Senator Webster  to  Mr Newman  was put specifically to him,  Senator Webster  said: 
I can assure the honourable senator that any letter that I wrote a month ago is quite clear in my mind. I well recall any letters that I wrote either to  Senator Wriedt  or to anybody else. lt is an extraordinary sort of explanation of letters between  Mr Newman  and himself. He went on: 
The basic question that he asks me is about a confidential piece of information. Apparently the honourable senator is willing to stretch that, but so far as I am concerned there is nothing in any letter that I wrote to anyone that I wish to disclose to  Senator Wriedt. 
It is a different story today when this allegation is made in the Senate. The Minister is quite keen to disclose the contents of a variety of letters which he thinks supports his position. The answer  Senator Webster  gave in the Senate last Thursday is the type of answer that used to be described in the criminal court when particular pleas were being put forward as one that reflects a condition of guilty but insane. Any Minister who gives that sort of answer in a public forum, in the Parliament of this country, is clearly in that situation. 
I turn now to the substance of the matter before the Senate. Let me put the charge in simple lay terms, as one would put it in a pub. It is simply this: While on the one hand this Government is making noises, in order to woo the conservation vote, about protecting the Great Barrier Reef and proclaiming the area as a marine park, it is having discussions with its mates in the Queensland Government and in the oil companies to subvert that very process. 
-I am reminded that the Government is having informal discussions with those two groups of people to subvert the very process which the Minister for Science and the Environment should be concerned to protect. Let me look very quickly at how the issue is documented in the records of this Parliament and in the correspondence that has been tabled by  Senator Wriedt.  I deal first of all with the correspondence tabled by  Senator Wriedt.  Part of  Senator Webster's  defence of his position was to say: 'If you read all the correspondence in a variety of ways, if you read the  Hansard  in a variety of ways, if you add a bit of extra material which I am about to reveal today, and if you put it altogether, then really there is no substance at all in the charge'.  His  second defence was to say that  Senator Wriedt  is a thief in the night and that he relied on stolen documents. Of course, we all know about documents which fall off the back of trucks. We all live in the age of the photocopy machine. 
In the age of the photocopy machine the standards to be followed by members of parliament and by public officials were quite clearly spelt out by the Prime Minister of this country in 1975. The Opposition is entitled to rely on those standards because honourable senators opposite keep talking about them. They should listen to the standards which were laid down by the Prime Minister of this country in 1975, and I will quote from a transcript of  Four Corners  of 5 July 1975. The question put to  Mr Fraser,  who was then Leader of the Opposition, whether he would accept documents or information that was stolen. He said this: 
There could be circumstances, 1 believe, in which a Treasury official could regard his overriding duty to Australia as being greater than his duty to a government. And ultimately  our duty  lies to Australia first. 

 Mr Hogan then said to  Mr Fraser. 
That's a fairly controversial statement isn 't it? 

 Mr Fraser said: 
Well, it might be, it might be. 

 Mr Hogan said: 
You are suggesting that there are occasions when Public Servants should not be primarily responsible to their Minister but perhaps to the Opposition? 

 Mr Fraser, with that grand vision, then said: 
No, not to the Opposition, to Australia. Certainly not the Opposition, lt would have to be a major matter of conscience. 
We are talking in this debate about the Great Barrier Reef, something which is dear to the hearts of millions of Australians; something which is of concern to millions of Australians and which is of concern to senators like  Senator Missen  and  Senator Puplick,  whom I know have raised on numerous occasions in this chamber, the question of the protection of the Great Barrier Reef. It is properly a matter of concern to millions of Australians and it may be a matter of conscience, as the Prime Minister laid down the standards in 1975. But they, of course, are the standards to which parliamentary life and political life in this country have been debased by what happened in 1975. 
-They are the standards on which we in the Opposition are entitled to rely. I say again and again that honourable senators opposite, including  Senator Chaney,  keep talking about those standards as if they were the highest in the world. Of course they are not; they are some of the lowest in the world. But they are the standards which have been set by this Government, and I am entitled to refer to them. 
Let me refer to the questions which were asked of  Senator Webster  on Thursday last and the correspondence which was also referred to. I shall just quote from  Mr Newman's  letter of 22 January to  Senator Webster. Senator Webster  says: 'Well, look, this is really all a constitutional question', lt was not a constitutional question in the mind of  Mr Newman.  Listen to what he had to say: 
My dear Minister, 
Your predecessor.  Mr Groom,  wrote to me on 28 October 1 978 concerning the proposed proclamation of the Capricornia Section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. In particular  Mr Groom  sought confirmation that the oil companies and the Queensland Under Secretary for Mines have no objection to the proposed proclamation. 
The thing that was in  Mr Newman's  mind when he wrote to  Senator Webster  was whether those two groups to which I have referred- the Queensland Under Secretary for Mines and the oil companies, had no objection to the proposed proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. 
Those are the criteria which this Government adopts to determine whether or not the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park will be proclaimed.  Senator Walters  has invited me to read on; I intend to do so. The letter continues: 
The Under Secretary of the Queensland Department of Mines has advised my Department that the Department of Mines would have no objection to the proposed declaration provided the permittee of Q/4P and  Q/5P is  agreeable - 
That is another condition; that the permittee be agreeable-  only areas which the permittee proposes to relinquish are included. 
That is another condition determined by the oil companies, not by the Minister. The letter goes on: 
There has been no more formal contact with the permittee and the official views of the permittee are not known. 
The Under Secretary expressed the view  that  before proclamation of the Capricornia Section it would be desirable for the applications for partial renewal of the two permits to bc processed. (You will recall that I expressed similar views in my earlier letter of 5 January.) Furthermore the declaration should not proceed until formal extension of State powers over the territorial sea has been accomplished in line with the decisions taken at the Premiers Conference in 1 978. 
So in the context of that letter, a very supplementary and secondary issue has been raised.  Senator Webster  has been at pains today to try to distinguish between what he calls drilling on the reef and drilling in the Capricornia section. I do not know what the benefit to the Senate is of that distinction but if any honourable senator looks at the maps of the Great Barrier Reef region and at the permits which are the subject of discussion in this debate-Q/4P and Q/5P- he will see that the areas in question are identical. Of course, they were identical in the mind of  Mr Newman  when he wrote to  Senator Webster.  In a moment we will see that they were identical in the Minister's reply and in the answers he gave to questions last Thursday. 

 Senator Puplick 's question to  Senator Webster  was followed by a question from  Senator Wriedt,  in which he referred to the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. Each question asked by  Senator Wriedt  referred to the Capricornia section of the Marine Park, lt is to these questions that  Senator Webster  gave the answers with which we are concerned. He said that the proclamation of the Capricornia section of the Marine Park had not been made for constitutional reasons. He repeated that statement on several occasions. It is interesting to note how  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Webster  adopted each other's comments throughout Question Time last Thursday.  Senator Webster  said that  Senator Carrick  gave the correct answer and  Senator Carrick  said that  Senator Webster  gave the correct answer. They sounded like a Marx Brothers duo as they answered questions on this very sensitive subject.  Senator Puplick  pursued the matter after a question was answered by  Senator Carrick  and asked a question in relation to drilling on the Barrier Reef. In answering that question on 3 May,  Senator Webster  said: 
. and I think the honourable senator can be assured that no action will be taken in that area in the foreseeable future. 
That statement was made by a National Country Party Minister in the Parliament in answer to a question asked by a Liberal Party senator. The answer was: 'I assure you that no action will be taken in that area in the foreseeable future '. 
-If the honourable senator wishes to take a point of order and allege that I have not quoted the answer properly she can do so. I will read it again for her benefit. In answer to a question asked by  Senator Puplick  relating to the Great Barrier Reef- I am getting tired of repeating things for  Senator Walters- Senator Webster  said: 
. and I think the honourable senator can be assured that no action will be taken in that area in the foreseeable future. 
That brings us to the substance of the charge which is laid by the Opposition. The Opposition is often given little lectures by patronising Ministers about its function as an opposition, what it should do and what its role is. The Government says that its role is to provide a vigorous forum in the Senate- God help us a difficult task. The function of the Opposition in this place, it is said, is to keep the Government on its toes. We often hear apologists for the Government saying that what they would like to see is a strong opposition. The Opposition would be derelict in its function if it did not raise a matter of this substance by way of a motion to censure a Minister in this place. 

 Senator Webster has misled  Senator Puplick.  There is no way that he can avoid that fact. He has given an assurance which he knew to be untrue. The same sort of pattern emerges in the answers to questions asked by  Senator Wriedt. Senator Missen  raised a matter by way of a question. In his words, it concerned a very serious claim made by the petroleum industry.  Senator Carrick  gave an answer calculated to give a particular impression.  Senator Wriedt  then asked  Senator Carrick  a question.  Senator Carrick  gave what might be described as an elliptical answer- 'it was the Government's intention that the reef should be preserved ', in essence.  Senator Puplick  then asked a question which was quite specific. In answer to that question,  Senator Webster  misled the Parliament and misled  Senator Puplick.  Then  Senator Wriedt  asked  Senator Webster  a question. In answer to that question  Senator Webster  tried to pretend that the aspect delaying the proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park was a constitutional question between this Government and the Queensland Government. Again, when he was pursued about that,  Senator Webster  repeated that it related to a constitutional question. Then, finally when there was a further question from  Senator Wriedt  and the truth had come out in relation to the letter from  Senator Webster, Senator Webster,  said: 'Well, look, really I do not want to answer any more questions about this subject at all'. Today he has to answer questions about this subject, and he has not done so. 
I will quote what  Senator Webster  had to say in reply to the letter from the Minister for National Development of 22 January, which letter dealt with the specific subject of consultation with the oil companies, consultation with the Queensland Government about proclaiming the Great Barrier Reef Park. But before 1 refer to  Senator Webster's  reply, let me remind the Senate that they were the two matters of substance dealt with in  Mr Newman's  letter- not constitutional issues, not environmental issues, but the consent of the oil companies and the consent of the Queensland Government. In reply to that letter of 5 April this year  Senator Webster  said: 
To enable my Department and the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority to examine the environmental and park management consequences of the proposal for partial renewal of the two permits to bc processed. I suggest that your Department provide my Department and the Authority formally with specific details particularly as to the boundaries of the areas over which it is proposed to renew permits. 
It goes on to deal with the question in the following terms: 
This will enable the Department and the Authority to assess the adequacy of information available to relate the proposed exploration program to areas of environmental and marine park significance. 
As I said earlier, the substance of the charge, of course, is that the Minister told this Parliament that there were no proposals about for renewing oil drilling in the Capricornia region of the Great Barrier Reef or any other region. He told this Parliament that, and he told it in the context of an exchange of letters with the Minister for National Development. It was quite clear that he knew that on 5 April and it was quite clear on 3 May that he knew that when he misled this Parliament by giving the sorts of answers which he did. The essential point is that even if  Senator Webster  had forgotten all this- and it would be a very strange thing for a Minister to forget that he had written a letter a month ago - 

 - Senator Cavanagh is right in saying that  Senator Webster  denies that he forgot it in answer to a subsequent question, lt was only in relation to an earlier question that his memory was hazy. Of course, if he did forget it, he should not be a Minister anyway. I invite honourable senators on the Government side who are concerned about the issue of the Great Barrier Reef to read  Senator Webster's  speech today. If ever there was a smokescreen, a tissue of evasions, a whole attempt, if I may use an unfortunate analogy, to pour oil on very troubled waters, if ever there was an evasive speech by a Minister, it was the one which was given today. 
As I said earlier, it is important that the same standards which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has referred to time and time again as being the standards of this Government should apply to  Senator Webster  as well as to anybody else. Let me again refer to what those standards are. On 9 July 1975, the present Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  had this to say: 
Ten per cent or even 50 per cent of the truth is as good a way of misleading this Parliament and the Australian people as a downright lie. The hair truth, the partial answer and the slipping over of the full facts arc a misleading of this Parliament just as much as and maybe much more deliberately than the statement by the former Deputy Prime Minister. 
The partial answer and the slipping over of the truth are a misleading of this Parliament. Listening to  Senator Webster  today I was reminded of that unhappy character in  My Fair Lady,  'oozing charm from every pore, he oiled his way around the floor'. I would hate that to happen in the Senate with its beautiful red carpet, but it happened here today. It happened here today when  Senator Webster  tried to evade the substance of this issue. To put it in his own Prime Minister's words, he has been guilty of the partial answer, the slipping over of the full facts and a misleading of this Parliament. 
Of course there are other items of advice which we have been given in this Parliament on this matter relating to the highest standards which ought to be observed. On 15 October 1975, this was said: 
The fact is that evidence on this matter has had to be dragged out of the Ministers day after day. They should be on their feet apologising for the abject faults and falsehoods that they have brought into this Parliament. If they are not ashamed of themselves they ought to be. 
A leader with any respect for his own image would declare immediately in this Parliament that he had misled the Parliament, although perhaps unintentionally. Surely those who have followed the disgrace and discharge of the various Ministers during these past months must endorse my comment that any leader with any respect for his own image would resign immediately. 
Those of course were the words of  Senator James  Webster, then the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party in Opposition and now a Minister in the Fraser Government.  Senator Webster,  the essence of this complaint is that you should put your portfolio where your mouth is. You should apply to yourself the standards which you lay down for others. I support the motion moved by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt. 
I just want to say a brief word about this. It will be sensibly brief because  Senator Evans  has canvassed this proposed new amendment extensively. The essence of this amendment, I should remind the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  is that he should be satisfied on reasonable grounds that other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient. I want to make only a general comment by way of getting back into the spirit of this debate, which I think is most important. Opposition senators have continually expressed concern about the civil liberties aspect of this legislation. What we have sought to achieve by this amendment is a situation where the Attorney-General has to make a judgment about the circumstances in which he will issue a warrant and he has to make a judgment on the basis that he is satisfied that, firstly, other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient, or, secondly, that other lawful methods of investigation would prove quite impracticable. We have put the second part of that provision in because of the way we have approached the spirit of this legislation. The whole emphasis of the Opposition attack on it has been on the basis of the desirability of the protection of civil liberties at all costs unless the provision of adequate safeguards for civil liberties would render the legislation impracticable. 
I mention that because we put it as a quite responsible approach that the legislation should not be rendered unworkable in any sense. But long before that point is reached, we emphasise again and again that the safeguards in relation to civil liberties issues are just not clearly spelt out in this Bill. That has been the basis of our whole opposition.  Senator Evans,  on the last occasion on which we met, canvassed a member of circumstances which illustrated the specifics of the point which I now seek to make generally. I reemphasise that it is the thrust of the Opposition's amendments, and this particular amendment is illustrative of that point. If it seems to cast an onerous obligation on the Attorney-General, so be it, because he is the principal law officer of this country and he should discharge that obligation in the interests of Australian citizens who are threatened in any way by the provisions of this legislation. 
-It is a source of great regret to me and I am sure to other Opposition senators that in the course of this Committee debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  has taken it upon himself, presumably because of frustration and tiredness, to misrepresent completely the position of the Opposition in relation to this clause and other clauses of the Bill which we have debated. I remind the Attorney-General again that this amendment is moved in the context of a number of amendments moved and suggestions made by the Opposition which are designed to try to improve the civil liberties provisions of this legislation. At no time has any spokesman for the Australian Labor Party actually stated what the Attorney-General just accused Opposition senators of stating, that is, that we were so totally opposed to the Bill that we would do anything to obstruct its passage, including amending particular clauses. 
It is quite clear that the Opposition's position in this matter is, in a sense, a historical one. We were responsible for the setting up of the Hope Royal Commission. In general terms, we accepted its conclusions. We have said to the Government again and again that in the context of experience there is ample room for the utmost safeguards to be provided to individual subjects.  Senator Durack  says that the Government has put a six months time limit on this provision and that the Opposition wants a 90 day time limit instead. One might ask him why the Government imposes a six months time limit. As  Senator Evans  indicated by way of interjection, why cannot the warrant run on altogether? Of course, the purpose of imposing a time limit in the AttorneyGeneral's mind, as in our minds, is that in dealing with this dangerous area from the point of view of the liberty of the subject, a person like the Attorney-General should be called upon to apply his mind to these important considerations from time to time. If he has to do that every 90 days instead of every six months, that is very good because in a sense it is a limitation on the capacity of an onerous situation to continue. 
The Attorney-General said that the power has existed for some time in the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. He said that nothing happened, unfortunately, as a consequence. How do we know that that is true, in view of what the Government has stated in the course of these proceedings and in view of what the Government's whole attitude to this legislation seems to be? I want to make it quite clear from the Opposition's point of view that we will not debate this issue on the basis of all sorts of allegations which swim into the AttorneyGeneral 's mind about our attitude to this matter. Our position is quite clear and quite consistent. The more one hears the Attorney-General speak, the more one feels that it would be desirable for him to apply his mind to these issues more frequently than every six months. We feel that he should apply his mind to the provision that we are now debating after a period of 90 days. It is for that reason that  Senator Evans  has moved this amendment. It is for that reason that we on the Opposition side support it. It is consistent with everything else that we have done in relation to this Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the minerals export policy enunciated by  Mr Anthony  in October 1 978 and to two questions which I then asked  Senator Durack  about that policy, in answer to one of which the Minister in this House assured me that  Mr Anthony's  actions were dictated by concern for the national interest. I now ask the Minister: What is the current state of the minerals export guidelines? To what minerals are those guidelines now applicable? 
-I move: 
At end of clause, add the following new sub-clause: 
The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after the receipt of the report by the Minister from the DirectorGeneral, furnish a copy of the report to the Leader of the Opposition. 
Clause 33 provides that the Director-General shall furnish to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  a report in respect of each warrant he issues, that is to say, a warrant relating to the various matters which we have been discussing such as telephonic interception and search. Throughout the entirety of this debate, the Opposition has moved a number of amendments which increasingly seem to be disagreeable to the Attorney-General. We make no apology for the fact that those amendments in various ways tend to hedge in the Attorney-General in the exercise of his function to make him apply his mind from time to time to various important issues related to this important legislation. In respect of this amendment, the Opposition is again concerned to ensure that the information which is made available to the Minister is also made available to the Leader of the Opposition. We do that because it is another check and balance, as it were, on the frivolous exercise of this power which the Director-General has. 
We have had a great deal of advice about the impeccable Director-General who apparently we now have. But, of course, we are dealing with legislation which does not provide for  Mr Justice  Woodward to go on forever and it is important that the provisions in the legislation be as proper as they possibly can be. We have said on a number of occasions in the course of this debate that in preparing new legislation in relation to a security organisation in Australia we have a unique opportunity to benefit from the experiences of the past in the United States of America, Germany, the United Kingdom and, indeed, in 
Australia itself where, without adequate supervision and checks and balances of this kind, quite serious instances of abuse of the powers of an intelligence organisation have been found by, for example,  Mr Justice  Hope. They are set out in the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. In the course of running to this legislation, the Government has inserted a new clause 20a which provides that the DirectorGeneral shall consult with the Leader of the Opposition about the general direction of ASIO and what its activities are. That is a very general provision which was proposed as an amendment by the Opposition and which the Attorney-General ultimately accepted and moved as an amendment to the legislation. If the Government is willing to accept a suggestion made by  Mr Justice  Hope in his report that there should be consultation with the Leader of the Opposition about these matters, I think it is only proper that it should accept the whole of the spirit of  Mr Justice  Hope's report. I will refer the Committee to it. The Judge emphasised on a number of occasions that there should be a bipartisan approach to security matters and at page 2 1 9 of the Fourth Report, Volume I, he said: 
If there is to be a bipartisan approach it is necessary that the opposition party or parties should be informed about security matters, and the appropriate way to do this is for consultation between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition and by reports by the Director-General of Security to the Leader of the Opposition. 
I interpolate there that the Government has come half way. It has conceded our position about the desirability of consultation between the Director-General in this case and the Leader of the Opposition. It has conceded that point. It is not, of course, an enormous concession but it is important in the context of this legislation.  Mr Justice  Hope did not refer only to consultation. He referred to consultation with and to reports by the Director-General to the Leader of the Opposition. That is precisely what this amendment is about. Clause 33 deals with the DirectorGeneral reporting to the Minister about his activities. The amendment which we have moved deals with the Director-General also reporting to the Leader of the Opposition about his activities. That is precisely the position which was adopted by  Mr Justice  Hope. Not only did he make this specific recommendation in pursuit of the notion that there should be a bipartisan approach on security matters, but also he had this to say: 
This practice - 
That is the practice of a bipartisan approach and referring these matters to the Leader of the Opposition-  is regarded as basic in various parts of the democratic world and should bc regarded as basic in Australia. With a truly bipartisan approach I think that supervision by the Executive and where appropriate, by a review tribunal, will protect both the interests ofthe nation and the interests or citizens. 
That is what the Opposition, which has been criticised at times for delaying the passage of this legislation, and for being tortuous about the details of the legislation, is concerned to do- to protect the interests of this nation and the interests of citizens. If the Government brings into this chamber a sloppily drafted piece of legislation full of half-baked notions of what civil liberties in this country mean or ought to mean, it is our function and our obligation as an opposition to point out these matters. 
We are grateful to the Minister for making concessions about some of the points which we have drawn to the attention of the Government and particularly the point about consultation with the Leader of the Opposition. I know that the Minister will tell us that the DirectorGeneral,  Mr Justice  Woodward, will report to the Leader of the Opposition anyway. But we are talking about legislation. We are talking not about the practice of one judge or of one Director-General of Security with one Leader of the Opposition. We are talking about legislation which will presumably last for a considerable period. If it does last for a considerable period, as I said before, it ought to be correct in accordance with the views of  Mr Justice  Hope and embody the democratic checks, balances and safeguards to which I have referred. 
I invite the Attorney-General, in the spirit in which he went half way with the royal commission recommendations, to screw his courage to the sticking place, go the full way and accept the recommendations of the Royal Commission in full. They are totally consistent, one with the other. What has happened to date in relation to this point can truly be described as a halfhearted gesture. This is the second half of the point which  Mr Justice  Hope was concerned about and the second half of the point about which we as an Opposition are concerned. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
I appreciate the view which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has put regarding this amendment. I will rephrase that statement. I do not appreciate it at all. I am not sure that I even understand it. I wish seriously that the Minister would at least do the Opposition the courtesy of reading its amendments before he rejects them. Perhaps the gift he is lacking is the gift of understanding. He seems to imply in rejecting this amendment that, if it is passed, it would involve the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  in performing some sort of executive function, that is, he would have to become a part of the Government, as it were, for the purposes of receiving this little piece of paper about which we are talking. 
That is not so at all. He would not have to do anything. He would not be involved in the process of government. He would not be required to perform any executive function. He would be receiving a bit of paper. The purpose of the Leader of the Opposition receiving the bit of paper is to provide some check on the activities of the Director-General and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. That is what it is all about. People throughout Australia are concerned about the details of this legislation. I have discovered that concern in the last week, from Cairns on a hot day to Tasmania on a cold but very pleasant evening. It exists in all those places. These people must be even more concerned to hear the Attorney-General in this chamber provide an argument which indicates that he has no idea of the nature of the amendment which the Government and he are rejecting. It is a very depressing situation for the Senate. 
If the Attorney was to get up and say: 'Look, I have my riding instructions from the Prime Minister' or something like that and we reject this amendment because he said so, and he is now overseas', it would be more appreciated than the Attorney getting up and implying that this amendment is directed towards something to which it is clearly not directed. The reference in  Mr Justice  Hope's report refers to the provision of reports to the Leader of the Opposition.  Mr Justice  Hope is not a fool. He did not suggest, as the Attorney suggests, that by one fell stroke of the legislators' pen the Leader of the Opposition would become part of the Government. Vote against the amendment if you are set on this course of obstructing anything which is designed to protect civil liberties. If you are set on that course vote against it, but do not do it on the basis of the specious arguments which have just been put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 34. 
For the purposes of the record, I wish to amend the motion which I moved to read: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert the following: 'the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979 be referred to the Senate Standing Commitee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report'. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979 be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report to the Senate. 
I rely on arguments already advanced by  Senator Evans  and myself in support of the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to a question asked by  Senator Wriedt  of the Minister for Science and the Environment. I understand that the Leader is in a position to clear the matter up. I ask: Did he receive a request from  Senator Webster  to have leave of absence from the Senate last night in order to appear on the ABC television program and was  Senator Webster  informed that he would not be able to appear on the program because he would be required to be present in the Senate? 
-I am indebted to Government senators for their instruction on how I should ask a question. If I may, I will continue. 
Did the Minister inform  Senator Webster  that he would not be able to appear on the program because he would be required to be present in the Senate because of legislation before it last evening? I ask the question because I had an interest in the legislation. 
-I am sorry that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  did not see fit to read this important statement. It is possible that he might have found it embarrassing to read because it is a rather extraordinary statement. I would be interested to hear some comment from the Minister at some time about the purpose and the cost of these particular activities. For example, when he was Minister for Administrative Services he was kind enough to send me a cassette of whatever the national anthem is. I am not sure what it is. 
-Thank you,  Senator Walters.  I am not sure what it was but he sent me a cassette recording of various songs. I gave it to my youngest child to play and he reported to me that it was totally incomprehensible in terms of quality. I do not know whether the Minister had many complaints about that at the time but the recordings were very bad. 
-I appreciate  Senator Puplick  's concern that he has a miserable life. Perhaps we could get him a free flag to brighten up his life. I really just wanted to make a brief comment about the series of statements of this kind which have emanated from the Government recently. They relate not only to the distribution of flags, cassettes and musical items of one kind or another, which I suppose are intended to encourage some national feeling in Australia, but also they are accompanied by Government sponsorships of a variety of programs which encourage people to work harder, be more diligent and things of that kind. I believe members of the Senate will be familiar with the latest jingle which does relate to that topic and intends that Australians, by virtue of these very cosmetic things, should be encouraged to strive towards a greater national spirit. 
-I think that the 'Life. Be in It' campaign has some very fine technical aspects. Norm is a great character by any standards, if that is what the honourable senator is saying. I think a lot of emphasis is being given to these activities and one wonders about the purpose of it all in ideological terms. I put it in terms of ideology. The other matter to which I wish to refer is that I noticed the other day- and I do plead ignorance about this matter- that when we had an official visit from the Prime Minister of Korea the band outside played 'God Save the Queen'. I am confused about that and I hope the Minister can elucidate. 
-No, it did not. 
I beg your pardon,  Senator Davidson.  I was there. They played God Save the Queen' and they then played the Korean national anthem right at the front of this Parliament. As I recall it, it was before and not after lunch that I heard it. 

 - Senator Harradine is an independent senator and clearly has more wisdom on this subject than the rest of us. I certainly heard that, but he informs me that that was just a practice, that it was not the Prime Minister of Korea but was just a public servant. I think people are confused, including myself. I plead guilty. I think people are confused about the nature of various songs that we now have available to us, about the nature of various flags that we now have available to us. I really wonder what sort of money is being spent to encourage these various campaigns which are designed to encourage Australians to fly flags, to listen to these cassettes and to take note of the advertising jingles on television, which really are absurd except from a technical point of view as advertising. I think it is a very cosmetic, Mussolini-type of exercise to spend money as a national Government and as a national Parliament on these sorts of activities without any sort of understanding of the philosophical purpose behind them. 
A good society is not created by urging people to work harder or by urging them to emulate the spirit of the pioneers and things of that kind, as the jingles now do. A fit and healthy society is not created by the sort of emphasis which we give to Life. Be In It' programs. It is very good fun, I know, but there must be serious concern about the philosophical emphasis now being given to these programs. The present statement falls within that category very much. I am serious about this matter. I know that I have been illinformed in some of the things which I have said because I did not know this statement was coming down. I would have been better informed had I known in advance. I think it is a matter which we should discuss in this place at some time in a more serious way. It certainly concerns me. For example, it is a source of great regret to me to see Phillip Adams devoting his very considerable talents to this sort of activity in the context of Australian political and national life. I hope we can have a more informed and serious discussion about it at a later stage. For that reason, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Opposition, having suggested an amendment to this clause, supports the amendment which has not been moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  In the spirit, one might say, of the ecumenicalism we have reached in the last half hour, let me say that we probably think that this clause is the best place for the provision to be inserted in the Bill. That might be taking it too far. I would like to make some brief comments on two important points which  Senator Puplick  made. The position of a presidential member of this Security Appeals Tribunal is a sensitive and important one. It is a sad fact of the human condition that as people get older and retire perhaps they sometimes have a very charitable view of their own capacities and capacities to perform functions which they have performed in the past. It would be undesirable if the position were seen as being similar to the way in which a position in the Senate, the Victorian Legislative Council or some institution of that kind was regarded- a place where one goes when one is unfit for anything else. That should not be the position in regard to a presidential member. That could well happen in regard to this important tribunal. I think it is an omission on the part of both the Government and the Opposition that we have not been more alert to this possibility earlier. I totally agree with what  Senator Puplick  had to say about the matter. Perhaps the AttorneyGeneral can assure us, as he has on numerous occasions- on the assumption that he will be Attorney-General for a very long time- that what  Senator Puplick  mentioned will not occur and that an older or retired person will not be appointed. 
The second point which  Senator Puplick  made is most important. As this is a sensitive area, the question of security appeals is important in terms of civil liberties. This is another matter on which specific provision should be made for consultation with the Leader of the Opposition. In a sense it is a sort of second half of a process of consultation. The first half concerns the DirectorGeneral and the activation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. The second half deals with the consequences of any work of the organisation in terms of the subject. I think the matter should be open for consultation with the 
Leader of the Opposition. I hope the AttorneyGeneral can see his way clear to look at the matter and see whether an amendment can be initiated to cover the points made importantly, I think, by  Senator Puplick. 
I have some sympathy with the Attorney's explanation of the difficulties which the organisation would encounter in these sorts of proceedings. But I think there is a very important point in  Senator Cavanagh  's amendments. Perhaps if we all had more time to look at the point  Senator Cavanagh  is making, the amendments may have been applied to a wider number of sub-clauses in this clause. It does seem to me that the tribunal is very hemmed in by the procedures which it can, in fact, take. There is very little room for imagination in terms of procedural matters. The limitations which are imposed by sub-clauses (6) and (7), which  Senator Cavanagh  has sought to have deleted, are very severe indeed. It may be that a more thoughtful appreciation of the essential point which  Senator Cavanagh  is making may have led to a better series of provisions in clause 56 as a whole. I support the amendments because I think they raise important points. I support them with the qualification that, perhaps, the whole thing ought to be looked at a little more closely than it has been. We might then get a better clause 56 altogether. Apart from those points, I support the amendments. 
-The Opposition proposes to move two amendments to clause 63. I will deal with them together; in a sense they are complementary. The first amendment to clause 63 seeks to omit sub-clause 1 (a). Sub-clause 1 (a) relates to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization's having furnished, or alleged to have furnished, to a Commonwealth agency a security assessment or a communication of a similar nature concerning a person. The Opposition wants to delete that sub-clause for reasons which I will explain as I deal with the second amendment. The second amendment, in essence, provides that if a person has been subject in the past to an adverse security report he will have the right to go to the Commonwealth Ombudsman- I am paraphrasing the effect of this amendment- and the Ombudsman, on the person's behalf, will make an investigation to determine whether there had been an adverse security report. Certain procedures, which are set out in the course of the proposed amendment, will then be followed. 
The purpose of deleting sub-clause 1 (a) of clause 63 and substituting, in effect, the long and detailed provision which is contained in proposed new clause 63A in simple terms is to cover this situation: Under the provisions of the Bill now before the Senate it is open to the Attorney-General, if he is satisfied that it is desirable to do so by reason of special circumstances, to require the Security Appeals Tribunal to inquire and report to him upon any question concerning an action or alleged action of the Organization. He may require the Tribunal to review any such assessment, which would include an assessment described in sub-clause 1 (a) of clause 63 which we are seeking to omit; that is, an assessment made before the passing of this proposed Act. The Minister may ask the Tribunal to review any such assessment or communication and any information or matter upon which any such assessment of communication was based. The Tribunal shall comply with the requirement and report its findings to the Minister. 
Let met put it in very simple terms. The difference between the Bill as it stands and the Bill as it would be amended by the two proposed amendments is as follows: If before the passing of this Bill someone has had an adverse security assessment made about him by ASIO the Minister may, under the Bill and out of the goodness of his heart or for some other reason which is not specified in the legislation - 
No, it is not. The issue is very confusing as it is. I am indebted to  Senator Robertson  for his help. Under the Bill as it stands the Minister may, out of the goodness of his heart or for any other reason which is not apparent from the Bill, ask the Tribunal to inquire and to report to him on an adverse security assessment made before the passing of this Bill. Under the proposed amendments any citizen or public servant who is aggrieved by what he believes to be an adverse security assessment can go to the Ombudsman to set in train an examination and investigation of his grievance. They are the alternatives provided by the Bill as it stands and the amendments. 
The problem with the Bill as it stands is that it gives no guidance about what might motivate a Minister to ask the Tribunal to inquire into, for example, an adverse security assessment made before the passing of this Bill. Sub-clause 1 states that the Minister may take this action if he thinks it is desirable, but there is no definition of what desirable means. I offer an illustration in simple terms. I know a trade union official of Greek origin in Melbourne who had been a member of the communist party for many years. He is still a member. For 20 years he was refused naturalisation. 
-I move: 
Page 33, clause 90, sub-clause (2), lines 5 and 6. leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clause: 
No proceedings for an offence under sub-section ( 1 ) shall bc instituted, except with the consent in writing of the Attorney-General, who shall not give his consent unless he is satisfied that the actions of the person to whom sub-section ( I ) relates have, or would be likely to have, the effect of: 
endangering the physical safety of the officer, employee or agent of the Organization: or 
b ) seriously prejudicing security. '. 
The essential point of clause 90, as it now stands, is that it becomes an offence to pass on the knowledge that somebody is an agent of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Let met give an example. If you have a fellow living down the street from you whom you know to be an ASIO agent and, to put it in its crudest terms, you tell the fellows in the pub that he is an ASIO agent, that becomes an offence under this section- or at least it is arguable that it becomes an offence. The Opposition amendment is directed towards deleting sub-clause (2) of clause 90. 
The essential point of this amendment is to provide that there can be no proceedings for an offence under this clause unless the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  grants his consent to such proceedings. Before he grants his consent to such proceedings, he has to be satisfied that the passing on of the information about the name and identity of an ASIO agent would endanger the safety of that agent or member of the Organisation or would seriously prejudice security. So, there are two steps sought to be put in the clause by the Opposition amendment. It is not just an offence to disclose the name and identity of an ASIO agent any longer. Before that can become the subject of proceedings for an offence, the Attorney-General has to give his consent. Before he gives his consent, he has to go through the process that we have been encouraging him to engage in for the last 25 hours of this debate, in that he has to apply his mind to the problem. Then he has to decide whether he gives his consent. 
There are clearly circumstances in which somebody could disclose the identity of an ASIO agent that are prejudicial to that agent and in circumstances which are clearly prejudicial to security. The great variety of circumstances which the present clause 90 in the Bill covers would neither be prejudicial to the safety of the officer concerned nor prejudicial to security. There have been instances of this. If an ASIO agent asks a particular academic to act for ASIO as a spy in a particular situation and the academic declines and in so declining says, 'I was approached by Smith and he asked me to do some work for ASIO. He is an ASIO agent', that person would now be subject to prosecution under this clause. The situation which I have described really seems to indicate the bumble footed approach on behalf of the ASIO agent, of which there have been plenty of examples, many of which are recorded in  Mr Justice  Hope's report. Similarly, there are situations that occur in a trade union or student organisation. I remember that there were ASIO organisation agents in student organisations when I was a university student. 
That is not your finest interjection,  Senator Cavanagh,  or your funniest. Some of those people are now very prominent academics. Some of them are vice-chancellors of universities, for example, and were ASIO agents when I was a student. It used to be a matter of common knowledge and common discussion as to their identity. This situation is of course true in trade union circles. It has often happened that that has been so. Disclosing to members of a trade union that another officer or official of the trade union was an ASIO agent would attract the provisions of this clause as it now stands. In any voluntary association we like to mention, that would be the position under the present clause. 
The safeguards which are provided in the Opposition 's amendment are quite clear. The Attorney-General would have to decide whether there would be a prosecution and he would have to decide in the particular circumstances whether it was appropriate or not for him to launch a prosecution. We have provided two sets of circumstances in which he could grant his consent to such a prosecution. Throughout this debate we have spoken about the importance of safeguards. I know that the Attorney-General resents the suggestion, but we really think it is a most important function of the Attorney-General in a system of checks and balances, such as ought to be provided in legislation of this kind, for him to be required to supervise this sort of provision and to do so in the light of certain guidelines. That is why the amendment is moved in its present form. I know that  Senator Durack  has indicated already that the Government intends to oppose this amendment. I guess that he is locked in, as usual, because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is overseas and he cannot change his mind on the basis of anything I have said. But perhaps it is a matter which he could give consideration to in the near future. It is a very important matter in the light of the sorts of circumstances in which I have suggested this provision would be quite onerous indeed. 
-I am encouraged by  Senator Evans's  observations. I thought  Senator Puplick  said that he did not understand the consequences of the deletion from sub-clause (2). Clearly the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  does not understand them either. The amendment moved by the Opposition simply provides that no proceedings for an offence shall be taken except with the consent of the Attorney-General who has to be satisfied about two things. If they are the only circumstances in which a prosecution can be taken, the provisions of sub-clause (2) as they now stand in the Bill become quite superfluous. No Attorney in his wildest imaginings would consent to a prosecution in the sort of circumstances that are envisaged by sub-clause (2). We have heard so much about the virtues of Attorneys-General. We have heard that they are men of wisdom and discretion in these matters. Suddenly it seems to be no longer so. That is the reason why we seek to delete the provision. We say that the situation is adequately covered by the amendment which the Opposition has moved. 
I am not suggesting that it is the reason  Senator Evans  advanced. I meant that I was encouraged by  Senator Evans's  suggestion that the Attorney had not understood this or any other point. It was in relation to the 'any other part' that I made that suggestion. 
-When we were considering earlier provisions of this legislation regarding the Director-General consulting with the Leader of the Opposition on a regular basis and other provisions of that kind, there was no such requirement that the Leader of the Opposition should treat anything revealed to him in those consultations as secret. I understand that ASIO annual reports are really pretty slender volumes. Not much is revealed in them. They can be read very quickly. I would have thought that the words which the Minister has just argued as being necessary in explanation of the amendment that he has just moved were somewhat offensive. After all, the Leader of the Opposition is an office holder of this Parliament. In other parts of this legislation he has been entrusted, in accordance with the suggestions of  Mr Justice  Hope and in accordance with the arguments that we have put, with information which might be important and which might be highly secret, with no such provision. It is only in regard to this absurd and formal annual report that such a provision is included. To that extent, the legislation is inconsistent. Insofar as the Leader of the Opposition, in the spirit of bipartisanship about which  Mr Justice  Hope wrote and which largely seems to have eluded the Government - 
I know. I understand that. It is just that the Government took up this suggestion of his and not half a dozen others about consultation with the Leader of the Opposition. That is why we say that this is an offensive provision. Accordingly, I move: 
Delete all words after 'Representatives'. 
-I move: 
Page 33, alter clause 92, insert the following new clause: 92c. The Minister shall as soon as practicable after 30 June each year cause to be laid before each House of Parliament a report on the activities of the Organization during the preceding year ending on 3 1 December. Such report shall include details of the number of warrants issued under each of sections 24, 26 and 28 of this Act, and under sections 8, 10 and 12 of the Telecommunications (Interception) Act 1979.  lt is quite clear from the attitude of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  on a number of matters, including his attitude to the report which is to be made available to the Leader of the Opposition, that this amendment would not have come about unless there was some late night aberration on behalf of the Attorney-General. Nonetheless, I will explain the purposes of the amendment. The suggestion is that ASIO as an organisation should be responsible to this Parliament. That is implicit in the amendment. For a variety of reasons which have been enunciated by  Senator McLaren  and others in relation to different clauses of the Bill, the Opposition feels that that should be so. 
Of course, there is no need in such a report for information to be provided about the detailed nature of the Organisation's activities. There can be no objection, in our view, to a report being made available to the Parliament on the general nature of the activities of the Organisation. There can be no objection to the inclusion in that report of numerous items of information which are common knowledge such as the proposals to erect a new ASIO building here in Canberra. That sort of information could be included in a report of that kind. There can be no objection, we would have thought, to the inclusion in that report of the number of warrants issued under clauses 24, 26 and 28 of this legislation. 
Surely the information which is secret is information about the nature of those warrants, the circumstances in which they were issued and in respect of whom they were issued. That would appear to be secret information, in respect of which there should be maximum security. A listing of the number of warrants issued merely provides a check on the activities of the Organisation in the sense that members of this Parliament can see in this regard what are ASIO's activities about which we are all concerned. Even members of the Government can see whether those activities are expanding and growing or whether they are maintaining a fairly even level of activity. 
-Or diminishing, as  Senator Chipp  has pointed out. The former  Senator Murphy  did not feel himself inhibited as Attorney-General in answering a question in the Senate about the number of warrants which had been issued in the previous five years. As I apprehend it, no disaster has befallen ASIO as an organisation as a result of that information being revealed. If honourable senators look at the figures over the five or six years for which they were made available, they could say that, contrary to the views of those people who are totally opposed to the existence of ASIO as an organisation, it is quite clear that the Organisation is not going mad in terms of the number of warrants that have been issued as is the Central Intelligence Agency, for example, which appeared to be going mad in the United States of America. That seems to be an activity which is healthy for the Parliament and the people of this country to know about. The attitude of people who would be opposed to this sort of amendment really suggests nothing more than a puerile fascination with the strange world of spooks. It means that members of parliament are just not allowed to talk about these matters. 
The important factor is to distinguish between what is properly secret and secure information and what is information which should be public knowledge. It is that fascination with the strange world of spooks and the incapacity to delineate one type of information from another that leads to opposition to an amendment of this kind. We think it is not an irresponsible amendment in any way. It is quite a sensible amendment which could rebound to the good of an organisation such as ASIO and free this community of some of the paranoia which undoubtedly exists about an organisation like ASIO, probably quite properly in certain areas. That would be an important and worthwhile thing. Therefore I move this amendment which suggests that there should be a report of a general nature to the Parliament, a report, which would contain certain items of information that do not in any sense fall within the basket of necessarily being kept secret for reasons of the security of this country. 
I move: 
Page 33, after clause 92, insert the following new clause: "92D. ( 1 ) As soon as practicable after 30 June 198 1, and as soon as practicable after every three succeeding years, following the year ending 30 June 1981, a Judge holding the rank of Justice of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory or of the Federal Court shall be appointed to inquire into and report to the Minister upon: 
whether the Organization has complied with its Charter and the law under this Act and any other relevant law of the Commonwealth or a State or Territory; 
whether the Organization has unjustifiably infringed the civil liberties of any person or group of persons; and 
whether the Organization has operated effectively and efficiently. "(2) The Judge appointed under sub-section (I) shall have full access to the contents of any file or dossier or other record of the Organization. "(3) The Judge shall be empowered to receive submissions from members of the public aggrieved by any action or actions taken by or on behalf of the Organization. "(4) The Judge shall prepare and furnish to the Minister a report within 6 months of the receipt of his commission. "(5 ) The Minister shall cause the report of the Judge to be laid before each House of Parliament within IS sitting days of that House after the receipt of the Report by the Minister. "(6 ) The Judge may specify that by reasons of security it is essential that certain information is not disclosed in the Report laid before each House of Parliament. "(7) Any information withheld from the Report laid before each House of Parliament shall be furnished to the Leader of the Opposition by the Minister". 
This is amendment No.  24  on the list of amendments moved by the Opposition. I really do not know at whose head I beat the air on this occasion, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  having departed from the chamber. Perhaps I can persuade  Senator Webster  to agree with us- something I have never succeeded in doing before- about the efficacy of this amendment. 
-So have I,  Senator Chipp.  The amendment relates to what we have described as a judicial audit of the organisation. Without reading the amendment, I will try to explain the purpose of it. It suggests that every three years a judge holding the rank of a Justice of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory or of the Federal Court should be appointed to inquire into and report to the Minister upon several matters. I want to mention those matters because they are important. Paragraph (a) of the amendment reads:  whether the Organisation has complied with its Charter and the law under this Act and any other relevant law of the Commonwealth or a State or Territory; 
Paragraph (b) states:  whether the Organisation has unjustifiably infringed the civil liberties of any person or group of persons; and 
Paragraph (c) states:  whether the Organisation has operated effectively and efficiently. 
The judge is asked to report to the Minister on those matters. The Minister is then asked to cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament. There are one or two other provisions in relation to the function of the judge. According to my best estimate, the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill in the Senate has now occupied something like  26  hours. During those  26  hours concern has been expressed with varying degrees of intensity and commitment about a great variety of the provisions of the Bill. Some favourable comments have been made about the fact that this legislation provides ASIO with a charter for the first time. It provides certain guidelines, however inadequate they may be in some respects for the operation of the organisation. 
As I have said on a number of occasions during this debate, we have a unique opportunity in this Parliament to set up an organisation of this kind with new legislation in order for it to benefit from the experience of the past. The experience of the past, including experience of intelligence agencies overseas and the experience of ASIO itself, is recorded by  Mr Justice  Hope in his report. I do not need to remind honourable senators about the references in that report to the departures from the proper functions in which ASIO has indulged in the past, lt is desirable in our view in those circumstances that the Organisation be reviewed from time to time by an independent judicial authority. The review is just another way, 1 suppose, of trying to make an organisation of this kind as publicly acceptable as it can be. It is another way of providing certain checks and balances in relation to an organisation of this kind. In a sense it is another method of supervision which the Opposition thinks is highly desirable. 
We regard this amendment as important. One could talk about it for longer than I have. In view of the repetitive nature of this debate I will not do so. The debate has shown a genuine concern amongst a number of honourable senators about the degree to which an organisation like this potentially infringes the civil liberties of a subject. Because of that concern we see no objection that can be offered in terms of practicality or otherwise to the sort of suggestion we are making in this amendment. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  seemed to be saying that he accepted the spirit of the Opposition amendment and that the Government might do something about it in years to come. As has been pointed out on occasions, though we have put it another way, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. In our view, they should be spelt out in the legislation. The basis of the Attorney's rejection of the Opposition amendment really borders on the bizarre. The Attorney said that it would be very disruptive to have a judicial audit every three years. If he thinks that, he could accept  Senator Hamer's  suggestion, which was rather a long shot, I suppose. It is quite open to the Attorney- he has the numbers here- to make the audit every five years or even more frequently. 
That seems really to be the only basis on which he has announced to the chamber that the Government has considered this amendment and rejects it because of this provision in it. We find that extraordinary and we again urge the Committee to take the view that this is the proper course to take in relation to an organisation such as ASIO. We may be incorrect in suggesting a review every three years, but the concept of a judicial review is an important one, which the Attorney himself seems to concede. There seems to be no objection at all, in substance, to the amendment. Because of that fact, I urge the Senate to support the amendment. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 93 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 94. 

 - Senator Evans has already indicated that the Opposition supports this amendment. I find grave difficulty- having heard the arguments advanced by  Senator Missen  in favour of what, in some circumstances, one might justifiably describe as this trendy aberration from the United States- in understanding how he can vote on and oppose a number of Opposition amendments to various clauses of this Bill on the grounds of practicality, and then suggest this provision as one which he would otherwise regard as being practical. 
I am referring not only to that amendment. The honourable senator has done it on a number of occasions in the course of the Committee stages of this Bill. It is the inherent and practical difficulties which have been put time and time again by Government senators about all sorts of things, whether they be judicial audits or reports to Parliament or accountability to both the Leader of the Opposition and Ministers. All these things have been described as impractical. Right at the end of this voluminous debate, which  Senator Missen  wants to have again in five years' time for God's sake, we have this sunset clause proposition put forward. With the greatest of respect to my colleague,  Senator Missen-  he is someone for whom I do have a great respect- I think this is nothing more than a stunt, having regard to the attitude which he took to other provisions in the Bill. I support it because the Opposition has supported the notion that some machinery should be available for review on a regular basis right throughout this debate. 
-A11 right. We have commended other machinery to the Senate without success because of the Government's position. This being the last amendment we are considering- the amendment of last resort in relation to this matter, as it were- we support it, although I would have thought that there would be a vast number of other arrangements which would have been made and which would have achieved the same purpose. They would have been of benefit to the organisation and to the community, and without the grave practical difficulties which are inhrent in  Senator Missen  's proposal. 
Question put- 
That proposed new clause 94  (Senator Missen's amendment)  be inserted in the Bill. 
I had a contingent notice of motion in relation to the third reading of this Bill. I now move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Button's  moving an amendment to this motion for the third reading of the Bill to refer the Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
In the course of this debate, which has now gone on over some 25 hours or 26 hours-- 
Twenty-nine hours and 15 minutes, I am told. There have been numerous instances of concern being expressed by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber about the provisions of this Bill. A large number of qualifications have been expressed even about clauses which had been adopted. In the last stages of the Committee stage we had an amendment from  Senator Missen  to the effect that the legislation effectively be subject to a sunset clause and be reviewed again by this Parliament in five years' years time. 
The details of this Bill are, of course, very complex. It has been the view expressed by a number of senators over a period that the only way properly to deal with the details of this Bill is not in the context of a debate in the Senate sitting as the Committee of the Whole, but in the context of one of the important and significant standing committees of this Senate. A committee would have time not only to examine the clauses of the Bill in detail, but also to hear evidence about the clauses of the Bill and perhaps to assuage the concerns of many people in the community about the provisions in this Bill. Many people in the community have had no opportunity to be heard in the context of a Senate debate. I know that the suggestion is not palatable to exhausted people such as  Senator Puplick  who might have to take part in such an exercise. 
-Yes, and tired and emotional people such as  Senator Lewis.  The important point which the Opposition seeks to make is that this Bill is a detailed and complex one which requires close examination. This Senate has always been most successful as a chamber in recent years because of the results of the deliberations of its standing committees. Much of the most productive work of the Senate has stemmed from the deliberations of the standing committees of the Senate. 
-Senator Missen as  Chairman  of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee has often told the Senate how worth while have been the deliberations of his Committee on matters such as this. The provisions of this Bill, insofar as concern has been expressed about them, are not unrelated to another inquiry which  Senator Missen  's Committee is currently conducting, namely, that into the freedom of information legislation. Again and again the Opposition has expressed concern about the civil liberties aspect of this legislation, about the complexity of it and, indeed, in passing, about the level of public discussion on the legislation, lt is because of that that I move for the suspension of the Standing Orders in order that I might move a motion to refer the legislation to that Committee. For those reasons I commend to the Senate the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many students receiving a Tertiary Education Allowance Scheme (TEAS) allowance in 1978-79 applied successfully for the spouse allowance. 
What are (a) the eligibility criteria; and (b) the means test provisions- particularly in regard to dividend income, for the spouse allowance. 
Is dividend income in excess of $300 taken into account as income for each week of the year, therefore prohibiting the payment of spouse allowance to the grantee. 
Has the Minister considered reviewing this means test with the objective of making it fairer and more reasonable. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Which organisations, in each State, are currently funded under the Child Care Act 1 972. 
How many full-time staff are currently employed in each of these organisations. 
Has the Department ofSocial Security made any projections on the future use and availability of child care services in Australia: if so, what are those projections. 
How many courses in 'Child Care' are currently being offered in educational institutions in Australia. 
How many people have graduated from these courses since 1974. 
Has the Department made any projections as to the employment prospects of these graduates; if so, what are those projections. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
I ) How much money has been made available by the Federal Government to mount pilot courses in Sydney and 
Melbourne for professionals wishing to obtain skills in the areas of the language and cultural differences of migrant groups as recommended by the Galbally Report. 
Why were Sydney and Melbourne chosen as the locations for these pilot courses rather than Adelaide, in particular. 
Will further developments in the other States in respect of these courses be solely dependent upon the success or otherwise of the Sydney or Melbourne courses; if so, why. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer him to the statements made by the Prime Minister during his recent attendance at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Manila, where he is reported to have called for a lowering of trade barriers between developed and developing countries. I ask: If this is the view of the Prime Minister while he is overseas, what is his view in Australia? What steps is the Government taking to implement that view in relation to Australian tariff policy? 
The motion relates to the failure to clarify.  Senator Chaney  was provided with the unique opportunity to clarify the situation and, with the greatest respect, he did not seize the day in the course of his contribution to this debate. It is the question of other costs about which we are most concerned. After all, the Australian economy is in a parlous state. One can only see items of expenditure justified by this Government when they have something to do with putting something in the sky. It can put two Boeing 707s into the sky for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and it can put a satellite into the sky for the benefit of we know not whom. It is on other issues of expenditure that the Government expresses a great degree of strictness and stringency. We would like to see the same sort of guidelines applied to the issue of a domestic satellite. But, more particularly, in the current context we have to be concerned about the employment implications of the introduction of a domestic satellite. I suspect that there is a lot of apprehension in the community about this issue. It is apprehension which senators opposite, as members of the Government side and also as politicians, ought to be concerned about. If honourable senators opposite, as a government, are perceived not only as caring little about the consequences of unemployment but also are embarking on expensive endeavours which go a long way towards creating it, there will be real and greater difficulties for the Government parties than is the situation at the present time. 
It is for those reasons that the Opposition raised this matter in the Senate today. We hope to do so again when further information becomes available from the Government about the issue. We have to keep raising this issue in the public mind because it is of vital importance. There is limited knowledge of the matter and misapprehensions exist. We hope that next time the Government will be more responsive in clarifying the issues referred to in  Senator Ryan's  motion. 
-The amendments to clause 24 which have been circulated appear as amendments Nos 3 and 4. For the benefit of  Senator Webster  I point out that they follow on from amendments Nos 1 and 2. 1 seek leave to move the amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
Page 12, clause 24, sub-clause ( I ), lines 18 and 19, leave out 'or for the disallowance, as the case may be'. 
Page 12, clause 24, sub-clause ( 1 ), paragraph (a). Une 21, leave out 'or the date of the disallowance, as the case may be". 
In a sense, these reflect the amendments which the Opposition moved to clause 23. They are consistent with the amendment moved in respect of clause 23 and are put for that reason. In view of the fate of clause 23 at the hands of the Minister, I do not wish to delay the Senate any further in dealing with those matters. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 25 and 26- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 27 (Legislative powers of the Governor-General ). 
I present the following petition from 622 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted: and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Although the Prime Minister has taken a great interest in the matter I raise, I ask the Attorney-General: Does the Government intend to introduce further legislation to extend the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-At-Large for Nuclear Affairs, covering non-proliferation and safeguard matters? Further, what are the present terms and conditions of his appointment? 
I wish to speak briefly on the Norfolk Island Bill and the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill on behalf of the Opposition. Later I will formally move an amendment to the motion that the Bills be read a second time. Although the amendment has not yet been circulated I shall speak on some of the points about which the Opposition is concerned in connection with this legislation. This Parliament should be interested in and concerned about the history and future of Norfolk Island. That island has a unique place in Australia's history. I think that within a few weeks of the first settlement at Sydney by Governor Phillip a ship was sent to Norfolk Island in order to establish a settlement there to prevent the French, I believe, from settling that area.  Senator Hamer  kindly nods his head in agreement. 
From that time the island has had a colourful and, at times, brutal history. There has been an extraordinary and unique relationship between 
Norfolk Island and the Australian Government and people. In recent years Qantas Airways Limited has provided a regular air service to the island. Many of our friends, colleagues and loved ones have visited the island on holidays. I have not been there but I believe that Norfolk Island provides an idyllic situation. If I have any expertise in the matter it has been obtained from experts who were associated with Qantas and who visited the island on a number of occasions. 
What the Opposition is concerned about can be summarised in a number of general propositions which are reflected in the amendment which will be moved to the motion that the Bills be read a second time. What the Opposition is recommending to the Government results from the view that there needs to be a balance of major and competing interests that must necessarily be considered in this debate in relation to the future of Norfolk Island. I summarise in a brief form those two competing interests by saying that, firstly, there is the desirability of the people of Norfolk Island- particularly having regard to the history which I have mentionedhaving the maximum degree of self-government of their island as is possible for a Territory of Australia. 
On the other hand, we have to consider the interests of the Australian people. I use the expression 'the Australian people' as being inclusive of the people of Norfolk Island in that, for example, each Australian individual or company has to bear a proper share of the taxation burden. Insofar as certain minimum standards of justice, social welfare and income guarantees are applicable to Australian citizens, in our view they should also be applicable to the people of Norfolk Island. There is, in a sense, a dichotomy between those two views. The first view expresses the wish that there should be the utmost level of independence for the people of Norfolk Island. The second view expresses the wish that the standards which pertain there in relation to the matters which I have spoken about should be as high as possible in the circumstances. 
The Australian Labor Party, as the Opposition in this Parliament, has two basic objections to this Bill as it is drafted and now before the Senate. Firstly, there are a number of ways in which we propose that the Bill should be redrafted to give greater autonomy to the people of Norfolk Island in the management of their affairs. Of course, the Government states- one would suspect rather glibly and, if I can use the word advisedly, conservatively- that this legislation represents the first step down the road to more full self-government for the people of Norfolk Island. We say that it is not a very significant step. It is more of the order of a foxtrot step than a stride. We feel that a bigger stride should be made down the road to selfgovernment for the people of the island. 
Secondly, we argue that at the present time we could go much further in relation to a number of specific matters in terms of the heads of power which are given to the island people to administer for themselves and to remove some of the avenues for interference by the mainland government and its representatives on the island who, of course, include the Administrator. Thus, we propose that in Schedule II there be added exclusive powers for the local assembly over referenda, electoral law, the recruitment and management of a Norfolk Island public service and education. Our position is that these are further matters that could properly be controlled by the local people of Norfolk Island in addition to the more municipal concerns granted to them by the Government. 
One Schedule to the Bill sets out certain powers which are appropriate in the view of the Government to be administered by the island assembly and the Administrator and another sets out certain other powers which are enumerated in the two Schedules to which I have referred. The second of those Schedules sets out a range of matters on which the assembly can deliberate and act subject to Australian Government veto. In our submission, these should be expanded by including powers over land use and zoning, mining, public hospitals and health, conservation and national parks, law enforcement and management of historic sites. Many of those powers which I have enumerated and which appear in Schedule III are the sorts of powers which are appropriately exercised, for example, by a county government in England. They would be appropriately exercised by a regional government in Australia if we were ever sufficiently sophisticated to arrive at that level of government under the system of government which we have in this country. 
As I say, they are powers in relation to conservation and national parks, law enforcement and management of historic sites. They are certainly matters exclusively within the province of the people of Norfolk Island. Many of these people are associated with the history of those places. Of course, they are associated with them in a very real and sensitive way in terms of a very high tourist traffic to Norfolk Island. Thus we believe that they are the appropriate people to manage those facilities. Those two objectives are important. Further objectives are also spelt out in the second reading amendment which I hope will be available to us shortly. They are concerned to limit the interference by the mainland government to an absolute minimum. We propose a number of reforms all of which seek to place as much control in the island government as is possible at the present time. 
I will refer to a number of ways in which the placing of as much control as possible in the Island government could be achieved and what we are suggesting specifically by placing increased control in the island government. Firstly, we seek to remove the power of the Administrator or the Governor-General to obstruct the government of the island by placing limits of 60 days and 90 days respectively on the time in which they may consider proposed ordinances. That is a restriction which we regard as absolutely reasonable in the interests of efficient government and one which we regard as reasonable in relation to the powers and functions of the assembly itself. Secondly, we suggest that we should place powers on appointing members of the executive council and terminating appointments- I am referring to both powers of appointing and terminating appointmentsalthough we are opposed to the concept of an executive council as such. We think that insofar as the powers exist in the Bill, and to which I have referred, the matter of accepting resignations of assembly presidents and deputy presidents should be placed in the hands of the assembly rather than of the Administrator. 
Thirdly, we suggest that the placing of the power to convene assembly meetings and the power to fix dates of elections in the hands of the assembly  president  would be a most desirable amendment and innovation in this legislation. Fourthly, we think that there should be removed from the Governor-General the power to disallow ordinances on Schedule II matters passed by the assembly, as we would propose, or passed by the assembly and assented to by the Administrator as would be the case under the Bill as presently drafted. In addition to those matters of principle which reflect the concern which I expressed in the dichotomy I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, there are a number of procedural changes which we propose with the aim of enhancing the role of the representatives of the local people on Norfolk Island. 
Firstly, an assembly of nine people is a very small assembly. Of course, the population of Norfolk Island is small but it is still a very small assembly. In an assembly or legislative body of nine people, we see no need for a three tiered system of government with an executive council being one of the elements of those three tiers of government. That seems to us to be a sort of bizarre and somewhat mediaeval notion which we have imposed on the people of Norfolk Island as over many generations we have from this country imposed things on the people of Norfolk Island, whether it be convicts, tax havens or tourists. Now by this legislation we seek to impose on them a rather complex three tiered system of government, having regard to the number of representatives in the assembly. That is rather an unnecessarily complex system. 
Secondly, we think that there should be a procedural change which would again affect the powers of the people in the assembly in that there should be a right of appeal to the assembly when an Administrator rules that an ordinance is beyond power. The powers of the Administrator as contained in the Bill introduced by the Government are in a sense quite arbitrary and autocratic. In our view, they are not appropriate for a country like Australia which has pretensions to a degree of sophistication and democracy in government to impose on the people of Norfolk Island. A third and very similar point is that we believe that the somewhat colonial title of Administrator which we have imposed on the executive officer is inappropriate in the second half of the 20th century for reasons which are implicit in the description of his title. 
The other matter to which I wish to refer at this stage is that because of our commitment to the rights of individuals being guaranteed, as against those of the State- which commitment has been expressed in a great many pieces of legislation which have come before the Senate- we feel that if we are to reflect our rhetoric in this place this legislation relating to Norfolk Island should be a model piece of legislation in terms of the imposition of a system of government on the people. We say that there should be a bill of rights for the people of Norfolk Island and that, having regard to the historical context of Norfolk Island to which I referred earlier, the bill of rights should reflect and recognise the unique relationship to the island of Pitcairn Islanders, or Pitcairners, as a section of the Norfolk Island people. In fact if one has any feeling for history or any sentiment about Norfolk Island one cannot but reflect a very strong sentiment for the interests and wishes of the Pitcairn Island people on Norfolk Island, the population of that island having been diluted, as it were, by various refugees from Australia, whether they be tax dodgers or retired people, who in a sense have had a very significant effect on the economy of Norfolk Island and who perhaps have too much say in the running of Norfolk Island to the detriment of the Pitcairn Island people. I think that we have to be very conscious of that in discussing the details of this legislation. 
At the beginning of my speech I said that there was a dichotomy between protecting the interests of the people of Norfolk Island and giving them as much self-government as possible- perhaps more than the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  would desireand recognising at the same time that the standards which are applicable to the Norfolk Island people should be as far as practicable the same as the standards which are applicable to the Australian people in matters such as income tax and social welfare legislation. For example, the vast majority of Australians have an additional share of tax burdens placed upon them because of the fact that a tax haven exists on Norfolk Island. Whereas a fortunate and dishonest few can obtain the benefit of the tax haven on Norfolk Island, the bulk of the Australian people are prejudiced by their activities in so doing. Stamp duty, estate duty and gift duty have all been avoidable by some people because of the existence of the tax haven on the island. Family trusts, which at the moment are on the decline in Australia because of the pending abolition of gift and estate duty on 1 July this year, have been most attractive as avoidance mechanisms on Norfolk Island- much more attractive than they are on the mainland. As these avoidance techniques have involved mere notional transfers in most cases, they benefit the Norfolk Island people only to the extent that Australian lawyers and banks on the island have been able to derive benefit from them. The cost of the Australian taxpayer has been quite enormous. So in discussing the future of Norfolk Island we have to remember also the question of equity in regard to the vast majority of Australian taxpayers and take that into account at the same time. 
We as an Opposition would urge the Government to take every step to prevent the island 's being used as a tax haven by extending Australian tax laws to the island, but we would relieve any extra burden on the islanders living there by creating a zone allowance for them. The corollary of that, which will be mentioned during the Committee stage, is that we would give representation to the island people in the national Parliament of Australia. Of course, that is provided for by a particular reference in the amendment which I shall move to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The Opposition also finds objectionable the fact that there is no proper system of income maintenance on the island for infirm, aged and unemployed people. Norfolk Island has its own economic problems and circumstances and it would be wrong for us to impose upon it standards which were not applicable to the particular situation of its economy. But we feel very strongly that the social security legislation of Australia should be extended to Norfolk Island. 
-I have already dealt with that,  Senator. You  were probably dozing off at the time and I understand and forgive you for that. In extending Australian social security legislation to the island we would have to take account again of the particular problems which exist there, but we should take account also of the levels of payment and the indexing of pensions in a way which is appropriate to the economy of the island and to the conditions which pertain there. 
I want to mention the question of wages which are paid on Norfolk Island and the manner in which they are set. They are set by methods which one can describe only as unprogressive and antiquated, even by 19th century standards. As I said earlier, when one talks about the history of the island it is interesting to see how it has progressed. It has progressed in the manner in which air services to the island are provided, the manner in which facilities for tourists are provided there and the number of tourists who go there. I referred earlier to Qantas and the people we know who have flown there with Qantas. In all those sorts of ways the island can be said to have progressed, but in the method of setting wages there has been really no progression since the 19th century. Wages are set by a very laissez faire system. The economy is over-supplied by labour from outside, the unemployed on Norfolk Island get no government benefit and must leave the island if they wish to continue to live, and those holding permits to stay and work are obliged to leave immediately if they lose their jobs. 
Once again we cannot impose Australian solutions on the economy of Norfolk Island, but this legislation which the Government has introduced really shows no recognition at all of this problem. It is a problem in respect of which this Parliament ought to be concerned. We cannot set Australian wage levels and conditions on Norfolk Island, but we can provide the mechanism whereby the merit of each side 's argument or case in the bargaining process over the setting of salaries and wages can be properly presented and considered by an independent arbitrator in relation to the conditions which apply on the island. To that extent we would propose the setting up of a conciliation and arbitration system for Norfolk Island which would be constituted by visiting commissioners and judges of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. For a long time- in fact since the latter years of the last century- Federal court judges have visited the island to hang and sentence people. It was, I suppose, a desirable circuit for federal court judges to be assigned to. However, no similar system has pertained to the question of wage fixation or salary determination on Norfolk Island and under this legislation, none will. That is another important matter which ought to be considered by the Government. 
I referred at the beginning to two propositions which we would advance and I have tried to treat them with some specificity. Firstly, we should seek, as far as practicable, and as far as circumstances permit, to provide for the people of Norfolk Island the maximum degree of selfgovernment. We find that here the Government has been cautious, conservative, lilyliveredindeed, any collection of adjectives that one might like to assemble to describe its nature in general terms. Of course its approach to Norfolk Island has been no different from its approach to everything else. The Government describes this Bill as a first step. Rather, it is a putting of the toe in the water because it really goes nowhere towards providing a genuine, realistic 20th century concept of self-government for the people of Norfolk Island. It is really a 1 9th century piece of legislation. 
Secondly, we say that the desirability of encouraging the maximum degree of selfgovernment should be qualified by the very real interests of the Australian people as a whole, including those of Norfolk Island, in relation to tax matters and the provision of certain minimum standards of justice and levels of income such as we seek in this Parliament, in numerous other debates, to guarantee by one means or another to all Australians. Those standards should apply to the people of Norfolk Island as well. Of course, as this is a Territory of the Commonwealth of Australia, we should be mindful in this Parliament not only of what we do in relation to this matter but also of what other people think we do in relation to the standards that we lay down in this legislation for the people of Norfolk Island. 
The Opposition opposes the Bill on the basis of the two general propositions that I have advanced and have attempted to illustrate by a  number of proposals that we feel would improve the legislation. They are set out in some detail in the amendment which stands in my name and which 1 shall now move on behalf of the Opposition. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide: 
1 ) that the powers of the Administrator as proposed in the Bill be reduced by- 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly the executive government of Norfolk Island, and abolishing the Executive Council: 
enabling the Legislative Assembly to make Ordinances providing for matters specified in Schedule 2 to the Bill without the need for those Ordinances to be assented to; 
transferring to the  President  of the Legislative Assembly the power to fix the dates of elections; 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly and the  President  of the Legislative Assembly the power to convene meetings of the Assembly; 
transferring to the Legislative Assembly the power to accept resignations of Presidents and Deputy Presidents of the Assembly; 
placing a limit of 60 days upon the period within which the Administrator may consider proposed Ordinances; 
enabling the Legislative Assembly to appeal to the Minister, and thence to the Parliament, against any action, opinion or decision of the Administrator; and 
changing the title of the Administrator to one more suitable to the changed status of Norfolk Island; 
that the powers of the Governor-General as proposed in the Bill be reduced by- 
placing a limit of 90 days upon the period within which the Governor-General may consider proposed Ordinances; and 
removing the power to disallow, or recommend amendments to, Ordinances made by the Legislative Assembly as proposed in sub-paragraph (l)(b) above or assented to by the Administrator; 
that the powers of the Legislative Assembly as proposed in the Bill be expanded by vesting in the Legislative Assembly the sole power of appointing members of the Executive Council and terminating their appointment, in the event of there being an Executive Council; 
that matters specified in Schedule 2 to the Bill include referendums, electoral law, the recruitment and management of the Norfolk Island Public Service and education; 
5 ) that matters specified in Schedule 3 to the Bill include land use and zoning, mining, public hospitals, conservation and national parks, law enforcement and management of historical sites; 
that a Bill of Rights for Norfolk Islanders be included in the Bill, ensuring, in particular, the recognition of the island as the historical homeland of the Pitcairners and the protection of their remaining rights; 
that the recommendation by the Administrator in respect of a money Bill be required before the Bill is passed by the Legislative Assembly; 
that moneys shall not be lent to Norfolk Island by the Commonwealth except with the agreement of Norfolk Island; 
that members of the Legislative Assembly be elected by a method of proportional representation, the whole of Norfolk Island constituting a single electoral division;  
10) that the taxation and social security legislation of the Commonwealth be extended to Norfolk Island in full: and 
that Norfolk Island be incorporated into an appropriate electoral division of the Commonwealth of Australia, and that Australian citizens resident on the island be enrolled in that electoral division". 
I move: 
Pages 1 1 and 12, omit clause 23. 
We oppose the whole of clause 23. We argue for the deletion of that clause. This might indicate to the Senate the provisions of clause 23 and how the provisions of that clause relate to our general objections to the Norfolk Island Bill. The clause provides in effect that the Governor-General of Australia may disallow any proposed law within six months after the Administrator has assented to that law. He may also, for example, recommend amendments to the Administrator in subsequent sub-clauses of clause 23 there are similar provisions relating to the powers of the Governor-General in relation to laws made by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. 
In the course of the second reading debate the Opposition indicated that, in spite of the Minister's enthusiasm for this legislation expressed in his brief contribution at the end of the debate, it found some of the provisions of this legislation nigh on medieval. We imagine that anybody outside Australia who is examining this legislation as a proposal for the structure of government of a territory such as Norfolk Island, would have the same sort of view of the legislation. I am not in the least surprised to find that  Senator Webster  believes this to be model legislation in the 20th century because he has a different view from us about what is appropriate to the 20th century and what is properly appropriate to the 1 9th century or even earlier than that. 
-I am indebted to the Minister for his warm enthusiasm for the proposition which I just put forward. I am glad that his enthusiasm is recorded in  Hansard.  In clause 23 there is, of course, enshrined the proposition which is in conflict with the first proposition that I put on behalf of the Opposition, namely, that this legislation should go as far as possible to provide real self-government for the people of Norfolk Island. Enshrined in clause 23 is the proposition that there is a necessity for real selfgovernment for the people of Norfolk Island to be limited by this very extraordinary power of the Governor-General to disallow laws made by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly and approved by the Administrator. In a symbolic sense the Opposition finds that to be a most reprehensible provision. It is symbolic, in that it suggests a view of the type of government which should be applicable to Norfolk Island, totally different to that which the Opposition puts forward. Accordingly, in Amendment No. 1 which stands in the name of the Opposition, we urge the Senate to delete this clause. By putting it in, the Senate is really reflecting the views which  Senator Webster  admittedly espouses and which the Opposition believes do not belong in legislation of this kind, any more than perhaps the Minister belongs in this Parliament. 
-Before the quorum was called,  Senator Webster  took it upon himself to describe me as medieval. I tell a story against myself, which I am very reluctant to do. I once had a very good friend who used to ask the question: 'Why is John Button medieval?' The answer was: 'Because he isnasty, brutal and short.' I am short and I propose now to be nasty and brutal to justify the other legs of the description. It is quite extraordinary to have a Minister get up in this place and tell the Opposition, as he put it, what it ought to do here. That is a piece of advice which I find gratuitous in the extreme, coming from a Minister who, in the last few days, has revealed that he had no idea of what he ought to do here. He has got up in this place and told the Opposition what it ought to do. He has told the Opposition that it has not circulated any amendment relating to clause 23. If 

 Senator Webster is unable to read, I must add that to the other appellations. 
If that is the case, what  Senator Webster  has accused me of is a form of dishonesty. I said that we had put down an amendment to clause 23. The Minister got up and said that we did not know what we were talking about as we had not done anything of the sort. That is a very serious charge to make. I thought  Senator Webster  might have found out something about the matter before he made such a charge. Of course, his record in this place is one of making statements without being quite clear what he is talking about. He has done that again tonight. The Opposition has an amendment to clause 23. The amendment to clause 23 is that the Opposition opposes this clause and suggests it should be deleted. If the Minister wants to go through the reasons for that again, I will give him the reasons for the Opposition suggesting that these provisions ought to be deleted. But I do not think it is necessary. Other honourable senators, particularly on the Opposition side, are aware of what I said. Even some on the Government side who were awake, would be aware of what I said. That charitable description does not extend to the Minister. For the reasons that are recorded in  Hansard,  the Opposition strongly opposes the provisions of clause 23 and it urges that they be deleted. That is the matter upon which we wish to vote. 
I move: 
Page 22, after clause 6 1 , insert the following new clause: 6 1 A. (1) There shall be a Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of Norfolk Island, constituted by a member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission designated by the  President  of the last-mentioned Commission. 
There shall be an Industrial Court of Norfolk Island, constituted by a Judge of the Australian Industrial Court designated by the Chief Judge ofthe last-mentioned Court. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904, subject to such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as are prescribed, applies in the Territory by force of this section- 
in relation to- 
disputes (including threatened, impending or probable disputes) as to industrial matters relating to industries carried on in the Territory; and 
situations likely to give rise to such disputes; and 
in relation to the registration of organizations in the Territory.'. 
That is an attempt, in a somewhat skeletal form, to introduce into the laws of Norfolk Island provisions relating to the terms and conditions of industrial employment in that Island insofar as the population of that Island is concerned. In the course of the second reading debate I said that we are not concerned that Australian standards in relation to a number of matters should apply if it is not appropriate that such standards should apply, having regard to the economic climate of Norfolk Island. But we are concerned that in the carrying out of the process of wage fixation and the fixation of conditions of employment the people of Norfolk Island should be subject, to some extent, to the same system and conditions as their fellow citizens in Australia. To us the reason for that is quite obvious. 
Some very depressed conditions of employment apply in Norfolk Island. A difficult situation exists for people who are unemployed, and those who are in employment find it difficult to obtain the service and assistance of any independent authority regarding any dispute which they may have in relation to wages and working conditions. I said that we do not suggest in any way that Commonwealth standards in relation to those matters should of necessity apply. What we do suggest is that the same facilities should be available to citizens, employees and, to a lesser extent, employers of Norfolk Island, having regard to the balance of power between those two groups. Insofar as those matters are concerned there should be some independent authority to deal with them. The Committee will note that in sub-clause (3) we have been fortunate in being able to extend to Norfolk Island a better provision in relation to the capacity of a commissioner of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to go there and deal with a broader range of industrial matters than would be applicable in most areas of Australia because of the nature of the Federal Constitution and the Federal compact. The same conditions would apply to Norfolk Island in relation to these matters as would apply to people in the other Australian Territories. We see as an oversight the legislation's failure to provide that facility for the people of Norfolk Island. Accordingly we commend to the Committee the insertion of this provision. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many civil celebrants have been appointed in each State and Territory in each year since the inception of the program. 
) Who at present assesses the suitability of applicants for appointment as civil marriage celebrants. 
What specific qualifications and /or characteristics are looked for in applicants. 
What is the current fee for a celebrant to officiate at a marriage ceremony, and who decides and assesses this remuneration. 
Are courses provided for newly appointed celebrants to familiarise them with the program and ensure that certain standards are maintained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) What changes has the Government recently made, or does it contemplate making, regarding the funding of health services for Aborigines in Australia, including arrangements for the Australian Aboriginal Medical Service. 
If funding arrangements have been, or are about to be altered, what is the reason for their alteration. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to support the motion moved by  Senator Wriedt.  In dealing firstly with what  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science and the Environment, is now pleased to call his case, I should make clear that it is not a defence to the Opposition's charges for a Minister in this chamber to say: 'I am ignorant'. That is a matter about which the Opposition would never argue with  Senator Webster.  We know that from Question Time. The final part of his speech was most important because he said: 'I am not going to be held to a recollection of what took place before I became Minister for Science and the Environment'. Of course, the nub of this issue relates to what he said on other occasions at Question Time when he did not think it mattered. The Opposition charges that he misled the Parliament at Question Time. Two weeks later in this chamber he says: 'Basically I am ignorant about all these matters'. But he did not plead ignorance when the questions were asked of him. He did not say then: 'I have no knowledge of this matter'. That is an answer which the Opposition would respect. He said that he did have an answer to this matter. He gave the answer at Question Time and by so doing he misled the Parliament. That is the charge. It is no good for the Minister in this chamber a fortnight later to say something completely different- such as that he is ignorant, that he has a lot of paper work to read or that he is well intended. Nobody disputes those matters. The matters which we dispute are whether he was telling the truth when he gave certain answers at Question Time in this place some time ago and when he spoke in this place on 8 May. 
The basic question which concerns the Australian people in relation to this issue is whether they have a Government in Australia which will allow oil drilling to proceed near the Great Barrier Reef in a manner which would result in damage to the Great Barrier Reef. That issue also concerns this Parliament. When the Opposition properly tried to obtain information from the Government as to its intentions in relation to that matter,  Senator Webster  gave a view which is of great concern not only to the Opposition but also to many other people in this country who are concerned about that question of damage to the Great Barrier Reef. After listening to  Senator Webster's  contribution to this debate the kindest thing that one can say about him is that he consistently goes in where angels fear to tread. A less kind thing that can be said about him is that he applies different standards to himself from the standards which he has consistently applied to the Labor Opposition and Labor governments. He applies different standards to himself from the sort of standards which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  applied when  Senator Wethers-  I am sorry,  Senator Withers-  was in a - 
He is a wether now, as  Senator McLaren  points out. Different standards were applied when  Senator Withers  was faced with similar allegations in this Parliament. The question of double standards is most important. I again remind the Senate of what  Senator Webster  said on 15 October 1975 when a Labor Government was in office and he was a member of the howling pack on this side of the chamber. He said: 
The fact is that evidence of this matter has had to bc dragged out of the Ministers day after day. They should be on their feet apologising for the abject faults and falsehoods that they have brought into this Parliament. If they are not ashamed of themselves they ought to bc ... A leader with any respect for his own image would declare immediately in this Parliament that he had misled the Parliament, although perhaps unintentionally. 
That is what  Senator Webster  laid down as the principle which is applicable to this Senate. Of course, it is quite clear from that statement, in the light of the recent debate on this issue in the Senate, that he has no respect for his own image. He said that it would be wrong for a Minister to mislead this Parliament even unintentionally. Today he said: 'I am not going to be held to a recollection of what took place before I became the Minister for Science and the Environment'. A fortnight ago he was quite content to be held to that recollection. The most serious charge of all is that what  Senator Webster  has said in this place was not unintentional and that he not only misled the Senate but also incriminated his ministerial colleagues in this Parliament in his attempts to cover up for what he had said. Of course, since then he has followed a course of conduct which has been designed to cover up the first misleadings of this Parliament on 3 May. 
I will refer, first of all, to the  Hansard  of 3 May. I invite all honourable senators to do so if they want to understand the simple nature of this allegation which is made by the Opposition. The first question on 3 May relating to this matter was asked not by an Opposition senator but by  Senator Puplick. Senator Puplick  drew  Senator 
Webster's attention to an article in the  Australian Financial Review.  I will paraphrase what he said. He asked about a company which had some expectation that it would be able to drill on the Barrier Reef. Then he quoted from the article in the  Australian Financial Review  which read as follows: 
Talks are currently under way between the Federal and Queensland Governments which could lead to certain areas within the reef region being opened up for oil exploration and drilling. 
He asked  Senator Webster: 
Are such talks under way? Is that the purpose of such talks? If not, can an assurance be given to that effect? 

 Senator Webster answered that question in this way. I paraphrase again. He did not say whether such talks were under way. He did not say what the purpose of the talks was, if they were under way. He concluded his answer in this form: 
At present no drilling is taking place in the area of the reef. In response to an earlier question the Leader of the Government in the Senate indicated the attitude of the Federal Government to this matter and I think the honourable senator can be assured that no action will be taken in that area in the foreseeable future. 
I ask the Minister to have some patience. That is only one question to which I wish to refer. 
-I am not seeking to identify a problem in that answer. I am seeking to establish what is a quite clear course of conduct of misleading this Senate which occurred on 3 May and has gone on ever since. As it is a course of conduct, I propose to describe it and to illustrate it in that way. That is the first question that  Senator Webster  was asked. The second question of importance came from  Senator Wriedt. Senator Webster  was asked: 
Will he now deny that the Government is considering the renewal of oil drilling permits in that area? 

 Senator Webster said: 
I can assure the honourable senator that the comment I made is correct. The Capricornia Reef is not declared at the moment due to constitutional problems. So far as I am aware, absolutely no movement is pending to renew exploration permits in that area of the Great Barrier Reef. 
Then a question was asked of  Senator Carrick  who, sucked into this vortex in which  Senator Webster  had got himself caught up, felt it necessary to go in to bat for him and say that  Senator Webster  was telling the truth. It is said that big lies have little lies upon their backs to bite them. A series of Ministers then sought to say that 

 Senator Webster was telling the truth in relation to this matter. That was dealt with in a number of questions which followed. Then, on the same day, 3 May,  Senator Wriedt  asked  Senator Webster  a further question, the essential point of which was: 
. whether it is a fact that on 5 April this year he wrote to the Minister for National Development and said: 
To enable my Department and the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority to examine the environmental and park management consequences of the proposal ... I suggest that your Department provide my Department and the Authority with specific details as to the boundaries of the areas over which it is proposed to renew permits. 
In answer to the allegation about that letter,  Senator Webster  said that he did recall all of the letters that he wrote, which, in view of his subsequent conduct, there is room to doubt. At that stage,  Senator Webster  had given to  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Wriedt  quite unequivocal answers which suggested that the public of Australia had nothing to worry about concerning drilling for oil in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef. That was the burden of what was said on 3 May. 
Then this was put to him: 'Really,  Senator, can  that answer be accurate, because only a few weeks ago you were writing letters discussing the question of permits and the boundaries relating to those permits with another ministerial colleague'.  Senator Webster,  in answering that allegation, said: 'Yes, I remember all the letters I write', which, one would have thought, was an extraordinary sort of answer. Therefore, I put quite clearly to the Senate that there was in Hansard of 3 May a quite sufficient indictment of the conduct of this Minister. The charge is not that he was ignorant about matters, or anything of that kind, but rather that he came into this place, purported to be knowledgeable about things and able to tell the Senate what was the position, and in doing so misled the Senate. When he is now charged with misleading the Senate he relies on the defence: 'Well, I am really ignorant'. It is said that ignorance of the law is no excuse, but the Minister pleads wisdom and knowledge on one occasion and ignorance on another to suit his own particular convenience. I repeat, as of 3 May it was quite clear that the Minister had indulged in a series of half truths and deceitful explanations in an attempt to mislead the public of Australia and the Parliament about the Government's intentions on this issue. A sort of smokescreen was put up on 3 May and I will elaborate briefly upon a number of aspects of it. 

 Senator Webster has said on a number of occasions-even today- that the thing that is holding up the proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is really a constitutional issue with the Queensland Government. That is said to be the thing that is holding it up. The Opposition has never alleged that the intention of some Ministers of this Government to allow oil drilling near the Great Barrier Reef was the sole factor holding up the proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. It may well be that some element of constitutional discussion with the Queensland Government has had some effect in holding up the proclamation of that Park, but  Senator Webster  comes here and says that the constitutional issue is the only issue that is holding up the proclamation. In doing so, he tables or reads in his defence letters which show quite clearly that it is not the only issue; that there are others and that one of these is the question of oil drilling. 
What he said today was almost, with respect, a tragic explanation. In the context of saying 'I am not going to table letters between Ministers', he has produced one letter- from the Prime Minister dated 19 December- which he thinks suits him. He pulls that out of the bundle of letters to which he says he is not going to refer because they are confidential, and it happens to relate to the issue of discussions on the constitutional position. He pulls that out of the bundle as part of a very selective production of documents in his own defence. Of course, this Parliament knows full well now that a letter from the Prime Minister of this country will not create a monumental impression on the Australian people. When the present Prime Minister signs a letter most people reach for their wallets, but the letter of 19 December is brandished as if it were particular evidence of the position upon which  Senator Webster  now seeks to rely. It is, of course, but another monumental irrelevancy in the present debate. 
Thus, first he tries to mislead the Parliament on the very question of the Government's intentions and then he tries to mislead it by telling it that there are other issues which are crucial in this situation to the exclusion of everything else, including the question of oil drilling near the Great Barrier Reef. Then, over a period of several days, in answers to questions, he seriously goes on to pretend that he does not know what we are talking about when we speak of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park or the Great Barrier Reef. He does not understand what is meant by the expression 'Great Barrier Reef in the context of the present debate. 
In the light of his apparent confusion about the issue, it is of interest to note his answer yesterday to a question by  Senator Martin.  That answer must represent one of the greats of parliamentary rhetoric, and is really worthy of reference.  Senator Martin  asked the Minister whether he would clarify what he, the Prime Minister and the Commonwealth Government mean when they refer to the subject of drilling on the reef. Do they mean the entire reef complex and not just the outer reef? I ask honourable senators to note the answer to that quite specific question: What do you mean by the Great Barrier Reef? What do you understand by that expression?  Senator Webster  replied: 
The honourable senator asked me whether I am aware of how the Queensland Minister for Mines interprets the reef area. My answer is that I am not aware of the state of mind of that particular Minister. 
That is an extraordinary admission by  Senator Webster,  who is apparently aware of the state of mind of everybody else in this place. He tells us every day what is our state of mind. Today he told  Senator Wriedt  what is his state of mind, but he is not aware of the state of mind of the Queensland Minister for Mines- which I find an extraordinary absence of his usual facility for clairvoyance since  Senator Webster  had discussions with him only a week ago. The Minister continued: 
The honourable senator asked me whether I will clarify the area of which I am speaking when I speak of the Barrier Reef or the Prime Minister does so. 
Having repeated the question, the Minister went on to say: 
A variety of areas is spoken about in relation to the Barrier Reef. I imagine that the interest of all Australians is in relation to damage that may eventually be done to the reef itself. 
That is a nice identification of the issue about which we asked him on 3 May. He said: 
I imagine that the interest of all Australians is in relation to damage that may eventually bc done to the reef itself. 
That is a political issue in this country. He went on to say: 
I imagine that that is the core ofthe question. 1 have said in this chamber previously that damage to the reef can be caused by many problems. 
This was said in answer to a question about what was meant when he referred to the Great Barrier Reef. The Minister continued: 
One problem is the pressure of tourism in the Barrier Reef area at the present time. I am advised by scientists who have had some experience in this area that the natural discharge of the great rivers of Queensland also has an effect on the Barrier Reef. My understanding is that there is a particular problem relating to the passage of ships through the area. 
The Minister went further to give another gratuitous piece of information: 
. the other day a Taiwanese vessel was said to have been scuttled there but in actual fact an oil slick extending up to three-quarters of a kilometre long by some one-quarter of a kilometre wide occurred in the region of the Barrier Reef. 
This is a Minister of this Government displaying his knowledge in answer to the question: 'What is the Great Barrier Reef?' We hear about Taiwanese vessels and discharge from rivers and all of these things which have nothing to do with the question. He then deals with the question in the final paragraph of his answer: 
In my opinion the answer to the honourable senator's question would depend on the area that was spoken of in the question that was posed. 
When he is asked the question 'What is the Great Barrier Reef?' he says that that depends on the state of mind of the person asking the question. He went on to say: 
My responsibilities insofar as the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is concerned is that it has some responsibilities for a region of the Great Barrier Reef which extends beyond the reef itself. It is that area to which I usually refer. 
I stress the words 'usually refer'. He continued: 
I am unable to speak for the Prime Minister. 
There it all is. On being asked that specific question, in reaction to which  Senator Webster  has fudged and hedged for weeks on end, when he got to his feet he gave, while he was thinking about what the answer might be, a long response about discharge from rivers, Taiwanese fishing vessels, oil slicks and the effects of tourist pollution. He then came to the end of his answer and said: 'The area which I am concerned about is the area of the region of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park which extends beyond the Reef itself. Now that is precisely what we wanted to know about on 3 May. That is precisely what the Australian public wants to know about. But we had to go through these two tortuous weeks before we could even get that garbled answer from the Minister yesterday in answer to a question which fortuitously came from  Senator Martin.  Quite clearly  Senator Webster  was under instructions for very obvious reasons not to answer any questions from the Opposition. There must be somebody over in the corner of this building who is saying: 'This cannot go on any longer. We are becoming more and more shonky every day. For goodness' sake stop him'. This question was posed by  Senator Martin. 
That is the third defence. The first defence is: There are constitutional issues involved'. We in the Opposition have never made any allegation to the contrary. The second defence is: 'I do not really know what the Barrier Reef is and if we fudge the boundaries enough nobody will know what we are talking about'. The third answer is to point an accusing finger at  Senator Wriedt  and say: 'This man is a purloiner of documents'. According to what  Senator Webster  said today the information the Senate needs to have is a disclosure from  Senator Wriedt  as to how he got these documents. I am sorry that  Senator Webster  embarked upon that line of argument. I would like  Senator Webster  to ask  Senator Durack  to explain to this Senate his standards on this particular question and to state whether he repudiates the standards of the Prime Minister of this country in relation to that particular question. As I have pointed out in the Senate before, the Prime Minister made clear on 5 July 1 975 what his standards were. 
I again refer to the  Four Corners  interview of 5 July 1975. The Prime Minister was asked by  Mr Hogan  a question concerning information obtained from a public servant when he was in Opposition. The Prime Minister replied as follows: 
There could be circumstances. I believe, in which a Treasury official could regard his overriding duty to Australia as being greater than his duty to a government. And ultimately our duty lies to Australia first. 

 Mr Hogan said: 
That 's a fairly controversial statement, isn 't it? 

 Mr Fraser replied: 
Well, it might be, it might be. 
He was then asked by  Mr Hogan  this question: 
You are suggesting that there are occasions when PublicServants should not be primarily responsible to their Minister but perhaps to the Opposition? 

 Mr Fraser replied: 
No, not to the Opposition, to Australia. Certainly not the Opposition. It would have to be a major matter of conscience. 
Those are the standards of the Government. I would like to know whether or not the Minister repudiates those standards. They are probably the lowest standards in the Westminster system of Parliament. I would like to know whether or not the Minister, who sees himself as an honourable, a diligent and decent man, repudiates those standards. Until the Minister does that he cannot point an accusing finger at  Senator Wriedt.  There is no point in the Minister's coming into this Parliament and attempting to do so. 
As I said before, I thought that  Senator Webster,  or at least a person of less thick skin, would have been sufficiently indicted by his own performance of 3 May as it is recorded in  Hansard.  On 8 May,  Senator Webster,  in what he now describes as 'the second Webster case' put forward a number of extraordinary arguments to try to get himself off the hook in relation to what he had said on 3 May. In trying to do that he used a letter which was written by  Mr Groom  on 20 October. This is an interesting example of putting up a defence. What he did was to quote quite selectively from that letter a passage which suited his purposes. He refused to table the letter. I want to refer to the circumstances in which he used that letter. I quote from that section of the  Hansard  on 8 May where he had this to say: 
. I note that  Mr Groom  has stated various points. I ask  Senator Wriedt  to listen. I would prefer that he sat at the table instead of in some back seat. 
There is another piece of advice for  Senator Wriedt.  He continued: 

 Mr Groom wrote to the Minister for National Development. This is particularly important for those who would at least give credit to the fact that when I was answering questions I was answering in relation to the Capricornia section of the reef. 
I might just interpolate at this point that yesterday, in answer to  Senator Martin,  the Minister gave a totally different picture.  Senator Martin  appeared to have asked an innocuous question and the Minister felt safe in giving a different picture of what he meant. On 8 May he continued:   . . I was answering in relation to the Capricornia section of the reef. 1 quote from that letter which  Mr Groom  had written to the Minister for National Development. He states: 
He quoted from that letter in the following terms: 
Recognising that operations for the recovery of petroleum are excluded from the Marine Park under section 33 of the Act, the Authority has resolved to recommend an eastern boundary of the Capricornia Section of the Park which avoids the areas which it is understood may be sought in any renewal application for permits Q/4P and Q/5P. 
In the passage he selected from that letter  Mr Groom  is saying: 'When we define the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park we will arrange its boundaries in such a way that the problem of the petroleum leases does not arise'. That is the section of the letter from which  Senator Webster  quoted. There are, of course, some other very important sections of that letter. It is a classic example of selective quoting in order to make a totally misleading point. It is those other sections of the letter to which I wish to refer. I want to refer to that letter in the light of  Senator Webster's  crucial statement to this Parliament on 3 May, which was in these terms:   . . absolutely no movement is pending to renew exploration permits in that area of the Great Barrier Reef. 
That was his statement to the Parliament on 3 May and he made that sort of statement several times on that day. The letter from  Mr Groom  to  Mr Newman  reveals a very important fact, namely, the reason why the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been proclaimed. The letter reads: 

 Mr Anthony was concerned firstly that the proposed boundary overlapped petroleum exploration permits Q/4P and Q/5P held by Australian Gulf Oil Company and secondly, that it might not have been appropriate to continue Proclamation action while the Commonwealth and States were discussing seas and submerged lands policy matters. 

 Senator Webster relies on the second point only. The letter goes on to say: 
Although the basic preparatory work necessary for the Proclamation of this Section of the Marine Park had been completed in 1977, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority took these views to account and has refrained until now from transmitting a formal report to me for submission to the Executive Council, recommending that the GovernorGeneral Proclaim the Capricornia Section of the Marine Park. 
Similar sections in that letter make it quite clear that what was holding up the proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park was an important internal division within the Government about whether action on the oil leases would be permitted to go ahead or not. That question was paramount in the mind of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the hold up was not purely a constitutional issue as  Senator Webster  has stated. 
The question of whether Parliament was misled on 3 May, if we had any doubts about it on 8 May, has been answered by the continuous course of conduct since. The refusal to answer questions, the fudging over issues and the selective reference to documents, show quite clearly that the Minister for Science and the Environment is quite aware that he misled the Parliament on 3 May. The important aspect is that there are implications for other Ministers. It is another shoddy episode in the history of this Government. Not only  Senator Webster  is involved in this vortex of his own making;  Mr Newman, Senator Durack  and  Senator Carrick,  in part, are involved. 
The sad fact is that when the history of the Fraser Government is written it will not be entitled, as people like  Senator Carrick  would have us believe, to have words like this said of it: ' How the glorious Government of Malcolm Fraser gave every Australian a job, smashed inflation, restored business confidence and lived happily ever after'. The history of this Government will perhaps be described in much more mundane terms like: 'Canberra Behind Closed Doors'. It will be a sad and tragic little reflection of another government in another place which got into the same area of deception, deceit and murky coverups of ministerial activity. That is what the Senate has to be concerned about in the light of the quite hypocritical standards laid down by the Prime Minister, and by people like  Senator Webster,  as to how Ministers should behave; standards which are said to apply to everybody except themselves. That is what this Government should be concerned about. That is what the Opposition was concerned about when it moved this censure motion, which I commend to the Senate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services whether it is a fact that in February of this year officers of the Commonwealth Police visited and questioned a number of persons or organisations associated with the Ethnic Broadcasting Association of Queensland- a body which recently was granted by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal a licence to operate an ethnic public broadcasting station. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Police asked questions relating to, among other things, the sources of proposed programs and whether there were any communists in the ethnic organisations concerned? What is the role of the Commonwealth Police in broadcasting matters. Was it requested to take this action? If so, by whom? In particular, was it requested to do so by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, which seeks a monopoly of ethnic broadcasting to the exclusion of public broadcasting stations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) How many Australian servicemen or women in the Australian Army, Navy and Royal Australian Air Force were cither: (a) injured seriously enough to require hospitalisation: or(b) killed, in each year from 1967-1978. 
) How many injuries and fatalities in each branch of the Services involved motor vehicles: (a) owned or leased by the Department: and ( b) owned or leased by others. 
How many deaths occurred while Army. Navy or Air Force personnel were: (a) on active duly or engaged on official exercises: and ( b) off duty or on leave. 
How many accidents or incidents involved weapons, explosives or mechanical equipment other than motor vehicles. 
5 ) How many motor vehicle accidents, in each year from 1967 to 1978. which involved defence personnel in each branch of the Service and which resulted in death or injury were the result of negligence attributed to alcoholic consumption by the drivers concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many permanently established positions has the Australian Department of Defence had in Washington and elsewhere on the United States mainland in each year from 1967 to 1977. 
Arc the 75 full time and 29 temporary Defence Department positions in Washington, referred to in the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 815 (sec  Ilansard.  24 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) Did an article by  Dr Richard  Taylor in the  New Doctor,  No. 1 1, January 1979, draw attention to excessive surgery in Australia. 
Do available statistics confirm that excessive surgery does take place in Australian hospitals. 
What statistics are available on the number of surgical procedures undertaken in Australian hospitals. 
ls the Department of Health currently funding or undertaking research into the problem of excessive surgery. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) How many members of the academic and senior administrative staffs of the Australian Colleges of Advanced Education have been recruited from overseas since January 1976. 
How many of these staff members are employed by each College of Advanced Education. 
ls consideration given, when seeking to fill vacancies, to a provision that Australian Colleges of Advanced Education should be encouraged to give preference to those applicants who are resident in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
How many: (a) aliens; and (b) Commonwealth nationals, applied for Australian citizenship in each year from 1972 to 1977. 
How many in each category were: (a) granted: and (b) refused, citizenship in each of those years. 
What were the reasons for refusal of citizenship in each case where citizenship was not granted. 
What was the country of origin of those granted citizenship during each year from 1 972 to 1 978. 
-My question, which I direct to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, refers to a question I asked a month ago about the destruction of a number of copies of a report of the research unit of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal relating to children's television. I recall the Minister's replying that he would obtain an answer for me. I am hoping that he has not done so because I ask: Does the Minister have an answer to that question and, in particular, could he tell me how many copies of the report out of the total number printed were destroyed? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the sixman mission which is at present overseas studying manpower programs. What is the cost of this proposed mission? What knowledge will the mission gain not already covered in the previous reports from overseas missions, particularly the 1 974 report of the interdepartmental mission to study overseas manpower programs? More specifically, why is  Mr Coughlan, Chairman  of the Tertiary and Further Education Commission, attached to the mission as an observer? Does this fact and the fact that the mission is headed by the Executive Director of the National Training Council have any particular implications for the TAFE sector in relation to its part in training skilled tradesmen? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to questions which have been asked by  Senator Chipp  in this place involving a dispute amongst Victorian primary teachers relating to supervision. Is it a fact that in March of this year the Commonwealth, through counsel, argued before the Academic Salaries Tribunal that this matter could not be dealt with by the tribunal? Is it further a fact that on 2 1 May this year the Commonwealth, again through counsel, took a similar view? I remind the Minister of his answer to  Senator Chipp  on 9 May in which he said: 
If . . . there is an impasse I would certainly want it to be resolved. 
If that is so, I ask: Firstly, why did the Commonwealth argue in the way in which it did before that? Perhaps this was not within the Minister's knowledge. Secondly, what has been done since to resolve the impasse from the point of view of the Commonwealth Government? 
Dealing with the Postal and Telecommunications Department, I refer to divisions 480 and 484. 1 wish to refer particularly to the establishment recently by the Government of what is called the Ethnic Television Review Panel which is under the chairmanship of  Mr Frank  Galbally, a criminal barrister in Melbourne. I notice that for the purposes of conducting this inquiry he describes himself as  Mr Frank  Galbally, Q.C.  Mr Galbally  has no more claim to be a Q.C. than did Ned Kelly. It is an extraordinary claim for a person to make in public when he is chairing a government inquiry of this kind. The point I wish to make about the inquiry is that after taking a number of steps, the Government has now arrived at a stage when it has decided that it should conduct an inquiry into the development of a permanent ethnic television service in Australia. 
Unfortunately, as a result of a series of decisions which have been made in the past, the dye is cast, as it were, and an inquiry of this kind is a little too late. In fact, two successful ethnic broadcasting organisations are operating in Australia at the moment. Firstly, there is the Ethnic Broadcasting Association of Queensland, which is not yet fully operative as a broadcasting station but which was granted a licence by the 
Australian Broadcasting Tribunal after a full public inquiry. Earlier this week in the Senate I had occasion to ask  Senator Chaney  whether it was a fact that members of the Ethnic Broadcasting Association of Queensland had been interviewed by Commonwealth Police who had made inquiries, amongst other things, as to whether any members of the Association had been or are members of the Communist Party or of one of the communist parties and also about the source of programs which members of that Association were preparing for broadcast. I have received no answer to that question at this stage. But I am quite happy to allege that Commonwealth Police inquiries did take place. 1 am also happy to suggest that Commonwealth Police inquiries did take place at the instigation of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, which bitterly opposed the granting by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal of a licence to Ethnic Broadcasting Association of Queensland. 
-That is the sort of potted judgment which I, with much more experience here than the honourable senator, would not feel competent to make and which I do not think any other honourable senator would feel competent to make. It is very difficult for the honourable senator to sit on the other side of the chamber and to say who represents ethnic communities. However, after a full public inquiry, to which people like the honourable senator could have given evidence if they had seen fit, the Broadcasting Tribunal decided that the Association was representative of ethnic communities and it granted a licence. That is something the honourable senator has to confront. It is not my problem; it is the Government's. The appropriate body which granted the licence was set up by this Government for that very purpose- to conduct inquiries to see whether associations of that kind should receive licences. The second successful ethnic broadcasting organisation in Australia is station 5UV in Adelaide which is programmed by Ethnic Broadcasters Inc. of South Australia. For a number of years that station has produced highly successful programs and has had a great deal of rapport with the various ethnic communities. 
I mention these two successful ethnic broadcasting operations because they are both run by the ethnic communities themselves. This Government saw fit in 1977 to impose on ethnic communities in this country an aberration called the Special Broadcasting Service. It is in respect of that matter that I want to draw attention to the Galbally inquiry, so called, which is now proceeding. The Special Broadcasting Service does not represent in any sense the ethnic communities in this country. It is a patrician effort by this Government and by sections of the Australian Public Service to impose an outside broadcasting service on ethnic communities and to tell them what they can broadcast and how they can broadcast it. If one has any doubts about that, one should look at the Act which sets up the Special Broadcasting Service. The warning that I am concerned to utter about this tragedy is that ethnic communities in this country should not be fooled by this display of money which is provided in this section of the Estimates or by the fact that the Special Broadcasting Service has a burgeoning staff with a vastly increasing rate of expenditure. The money is largely being spent on salaries and things of that kind and not on production. There is, of course, within the ethnic broadcasting service a very high number of Australian born Anglo-Saxons, for want of a better expression at a quarter to two in the morning, who are contributing to and directing such little program activity as is going on in that Special Broadcasting Service. 
The honourable senator knows that it is true. He and his right wing cliques in New South Wales would not be interested in it, but every ethnic community in Australia knows that that is true. It is quite true to say that bodies like the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council and the State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Committees are advisory panels. If  Senator Lajovic  can show me that the majority of employees of the SBS are representative of ethnic communities, I will be very pleased to apologise to him. I invite him to do that. The fact is that the administration of SBS is not of that order at all. 
The honourable senator asks me to look at the programmers, but I am asking him to look at who runs the SBS. This is the whole point of the Special Broadcasting Service. It has been set up by this Government as a patrician organisation. The essential point is that because the Government rejects the notion of granting public broadcasting licences to ethnic communities to do their own thing in broadcasting, it is saying that there are two standards in Australia: There is one standard for white 
Anglo-Saxon Protestant broadcasters, whether they be commercial, public or the Australian Broadcasting Commission and another standard for members of ethnic communities. Members of ethnic communities must have their broadcasting controlled by the Government and by the Special Broadcasting Service- as I said, by the Public Service. 
By invitation; I understand that  Senator Lajovic  is the greatest apologist for the SBS in Australia for obvious reasons. But the point I am trying to make is that there are different standards which apply to the sorts of people who sit next to  Senator Lajovic  and different standards which apply to  Senator Lajovic  's people if the honourable senator purports in any way to represent ethnic communities. The important point is that under these appropriations there is developing in the SBS a quite sinister bureaucracy in this country. Anybody who looks at the terms of the legislation which set that bureaucracy up will see precisely what 1 mean. It is a bureaucracy which is predicated on a notion of double standards as between Australian and members of ethnic communities and their capacity and ability to do their own thing in broadcasting. It is symptomatic of the sort of general broadcasting mess into which this Government has got itself and about which one could talk for some time under these appropriations. It is a highly appropriate time, I would think, to draw attention to this. 
Another thing that illustrates exactly the same attitude by this Government towards ethnic communities is the suggestion which has flowed from the Government, which I understand has the approval of a silver-tailed criminal barrister from Melbourne, that the ethnic television services should be received on an ultra high frequency signal. I repeat that that is a confidence trick of the first order because at present it would be a very generous assessment to point out that 25 to 30 per cent of Australian residences, that is houses, have a television set which has a UHF capacity on it. Amongst migrant communities the percentage would probably be less. To brandish around this the sort of false promise to have ethnic television programs transmitted to a UHF receiver is another phoney act as monumental as the setting up of the Special Broadcasting Service. I express my concern about the section of the appropriations relevant to this matter. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Prime Minister on 1 7 November 1975, in his address to the nation, said: 
In two years Australia will have spent $6, 500m more than we have got- over $500 for every Australian ... the recovery- 
That is, the recovery of the economy- is a myth. The economy is not coming out of its recession. The facts were all available to the former government. They are facts that should have been available to the Parliament. 
Does the Leader of the Government agree that the expected deficit for the last three years of the Fraser Government is now $9.5 billion? Does this not demonstrate, in the words of the Prime Minister in 1975, that at best the Government did not understand the extent of the damage caused by its incompetence and that its economic policies have failed? 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: Is it a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the areas of permits Q/4P and Q/5P infringe on the proposed section of the Marine Park? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Earlier this morning I asked  Senator Webster  whether it was a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park had not been declared because of petroleum exploration permits.  Senator Webster  replied that the section had not been declared because of discussions on constitutional matters between the Queensland and Federal Governments. Also this morning, in answer to an identical question in the House of Representatives, the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  said: 'Yes, that is the reason why the areas have not been proclaimed as part of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park'. I now ask the Minister- 
There is always time for  Senator Carrick  to read the note which has been passed to him. 1 know that that is important. The question is: Which Minister is in fact misleading the Parliament on this important issue? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
-At Question Time this morning, I asked some questions of  Senator Webster.  I would like to refer to those questions. At the commencement of Question Time - 
I claim to have been misrepresented and, if  Senator Davidson  listens for a minute, I will tell him why. At Question Time I asked  Senator Webster  a question relating to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. I will read the question because it is important for the understanding of people like  Senator Davidson  who perhaps were not here at the time the question was asked. It reads:  ls it a fact that the Capricornia section ofthe Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area of permits Q/4P and Q/5P infringe on the proposed section of the Marine Park? 

 Senator Webster answered that question in this way: He said that the question had been asked five times before and that I was stupid to ask it again. That is an allegation to which on many occasions I would plead guilty, but no more so than any other honourable senator, if I may say so, with respect. The point of the personal explanation I seek to make is that the Senate should judge, in the light of subsequent developments, who in fact is stupid in relation to this matter and who is not.  Senator Webster  went on to say that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef 
Marine Park had not been declared because of constitutional questions which had to be resolved in discussions with the Queensland Government.  Senator Webster  in that answer told me that he had answered similar questions five times before; he was again answering it this morning. That is his story and he presumably is sticking to it. 
I then asked him as a supplementary question whether he was aware of the fact that in the House of Representatives today the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  was asked an identical question and replied 'Yes', that it was a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park had not been declared because of the permits to which I referred. I thought  Senator Webster  gave a fairly unsatisfactory answer to my supplementary question, but that of course does not go to the point of the issue with which I am concerned here. 
Subsequently I asked  Senator Carrick  a question in which I drew attention to the answer which I alleged the Minister for National Development had given in the House of Representatives."! now refer the Senate to the 'greens' of the question which was asked and the answer given in the House of Representatives. Those senators who have not been afflicted by the wave of illiteracy and innumeracy, which is said to bedevil this nation will recognise that the question, which I now read is identical to the question which I asked  Senator Webster  in the Senate this morning. The question was asked by  Mr Humphreys  in these terms: 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area of permits Q/4P and Q/5P infringes on the proposed section of the marine park? 
He then went on to ask in his question: 
Is it also a fact that the Capricornia section ofthe marine park cannot be declared until the Government knows where it is going with the report of the Royal Commission into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the Area ofthe Great Barrier Reef? 

 Mr Newman 's answer was: 
The answers to the two questions posed by the honourable member are, yes and yes. 
Affirmative twice, and the first question was identical to the question that I asked  Senator Webster  in this place.  Mr Newman  went on to say: 
I would like to add that the Government has not made any decision on this question. 1 now have prepared a submission which has gone to the Government for decision. I can only repeat what has been said by the Prime Minister and other of my colleagues, that this Government will not allow drilling on the reef, nor will it allow any activity that will in any way damage the reef. 
Of course, that is a qualification of monumental irrelevancy to the point that 1 am seeking to make, but it is one which I ought to put before the Senate because it is important that the Senate have that information before it. So, in view of the answer by  Mr Newman  and the answer which I received from  Senator Webster,  I subsequently asked  Senator Carrick  a question this morning. I drew attention to the different answers which were given- one in the House of Representatives and one by  Senator Webster  in this place- in answer to an identical question. I asked  Senator Carrick  which of these Ministers was misleading the Parliament. When 1 asked that question  Senator Webster  with some degree of desperation rose in his place on what he said was a point of order.  Senator Carrick  was in the process of answering the question which I directed to him.  Senator Webster  interrupted the answer and rose in his place and said: 'I have been in touch with my office and with  Mr Newman,  and  Mr Newman  said that he answered yes to two questions which were not the questions'- I emphasise those words 'which were not the questions'- 'which the Acting Leader ofthe Opposition is attempting to infer.' That is what  Senator Webster  said this morning in this place when I directed a question to  Senator Cavanagh.  I then persisted to question  Senator Carrick.  The question I asked again was: 'Which Minister is misleading the Parliament on this important issue?'  Senator Carrick  said in an exonian cover-up of monumental proportions, which is almost impossible with a Minister like  Senator Webster.  To try to cover  Senator Webster's  prevarications in this place is like covering Botany Bay as that trendy sculptor did a few years ago with plastic.  Senator Carrick  said: 
. as I gather from  Senator Webster,  no Minister is misleading the Parliament- only the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 1 claim to be misrepresented in two respects. Firstly I claim to be misrepresented when in the course of this discussion this morning 1 was described as stupid by the Minister, for asking a question. If the Minister has anything to say on this matter it will again give the Senate an opportunity to judge who is being stupid. I claim to be misrepresented in that regard. Secondly, I claim to be misrepresented in that it was alleged by  Senator Carrick-  in trying to cover up for  Senator Webster-  that I had misled the Senate. Of course, I am not a member of the Government and it is not my function to answer questions honestly and straightforwardly. As a member of the Opposition it is my function to ask questions. 
It is an extraordinary allegation for a Leader ofthe Government in the Senate to make against an Opposition spokesman that he misled Parliament by a question. In terms of the English language I would have thought it is an extraordinarily convoluted exercise to say that I misled Parliament by asking a question, but that is the allegation that  Senator Carrick  made against me today. It is an allegation which, quite frankly, I have made against  Senator Webster  and which I now make against  Senator Carrick  because of what has happened. There has been a continual course of conduct of conspiracy and tissue of prevarications and untruths about this whole question of the Government's attitude to oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef.  Senator Webster-  if I might adopt a phrase- lies at the eye ofthe storm in this matter. He will continue to lie at the eye of the storm and he will not get out of it by making these sorts of allegations against members of the Opposition. For those reasons I claim to be seriously misrepresented and I seek a retraction from the Minister who answered in that way or. if he is not prepared to do it, from the Minister who was passing him notes- notes which were clearly wrong and contrary to the facts of this matter. I thank the Senate for its indulgence. 
-by leave-I am indebted to  Senator Carrick  for the approach that he has adopted in respect of this matter. I take it that when I sit down  Senator Walsh's  motion will be proceeded with. I respect  Senator Carrick  's wish to have some time in which to consider the matters relative to the motion before it is debated. It is a matter of urgency so far as we are concerned. I have offered to make available to  Senator Carrick  the 'pinks' of what I said this morning, which may assist him in any comments that he wishes to make. 
-by leave-I wish to congratulate the Parliamentary Joint Commitee on Public Works on the care with which it has dealt with this matter. The Committee carried out a very difficult and thorough going investigation. In so doing I want to retrace briefly the history of the Casey University, the Australian Defence Force Academy. I say at the outset that Casey University appears to have been a pet project of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for a long time. The proposal was first taken to Cabinet by him in 1970. There is perhaps little doubt that this issue was part of the so-called Fraser-Gorton affair, which honourable senators will recall as one of the chapters in the life of the present Prime Minister. 
In 1974  Mr Barnard,  as Minister for Defence in the Labor Government, indicated that in his view further planning on this issue was necessary. He said there was a need for more tertiary educated officers and that the sense of a single service should be fostered. Both of these propositions are endorsed by the Committee in the report presented by  Senator Melzer. 
The proposal for Casey University has been criticised from a great variety of quarters. It has been criticised by a number of academics. It has been criticised by this Committee, among other groups, on cost grounds. It has been criticised by officers of the armed Services. The Committee records in its report that one officer named Greville, as I recall it, indicated in his evidence to the Committee that in discussions among serving officers he could find no real support for the Casey University proposal. I would invite those honourable senators who are interested in this issue to look at the journal of the Naval Acadamy of Australia. I cannot at this stage provide a reference to the particular issue of the journal I have in mind. However, it contained a very lengthy and well reasoned article in which the Naval Academy made very stringent criticisms of the whole concept of the Casey University. 
Quite frankly I suspect from answers the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has given in this place that he also is not greatly enamoured of the idea of Casey University. Indeed, I appreciate that in his case there is a problem of competing bailiwicks, as it were, because the Casey University proposal comes within the province of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  This is perhaps another example of the defence lobby pushing a pet project of its creation at the expense of other areas of government endeavour and administration. 
In answer to questions asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on 1 June 1978  Senator Withers,  the then Leader of the Government in the Senate, gave the cost of the proposed Casey University project as being $49m in December 1977 prices. Given the course of inflation which has continued since, it is estimated that the cost will now closely approximate $100m when the establishment is finally completed. I mention those figures because by comparison with the now estimated cost of $ 100m for the Casey University the total capital allocation for all universities and colleges in 1979 was $52m- $52m as against $100m for this pet project of the Prime Minister. 
The point I want to make to the Senate is that this matter relates to the allocation of priorities, a matter about which this Government is continually confused. The priorities are bizarre when we consider that we are allocating $52m to capital expenditure on all the universities and colleges in Australia whilst we indulge in this sort of expenditure for a project which has been criticised by defence personnel and educational personnel and on cost benefit grounds. 
I am not interested whether there is a five-year pay-back period or not. 
The question is whether, with the current economic stringencies being imposed by this Government on the education sector, the project justifies this sort of expenditure at all in view of the criticisms which have been made. That is the point I seek to make. 
We on the Opposition side hope that the Government will use this report of the joint committee as an opportunity to get off the hook over Casey University, as an opportunity to get its expenditure priorities straight, as an opportunity to spend perhaps some of the money which might have been spent on this project on youth unemployment projects and the educational aspects of the youth unemployment question, which must take precedence over expenditure of this kind. 
I do not know where the honourable senator's copy is, but  Senator Melzer  has mine. If the honourable member does not have a copy perhaps he would like to borrow my copy from her. 
-I should indicate in answer to  Senator Harradine  's interjection that I have had the advantage of seeing the report. I am not talking about a report which has not been distributed to me. I have the summary of recommendations and conclusions of the report before me. I was making the point that this is a golden opportunity for this Government, for once, to get its priorities in order and to decide what the priorities are in terms of education expenditure in particular. 
I would draw the Senate's attention to the fact that the Committee agreed that there was a need for tertiary education of military officers in each of the Services. That would be undenied. Indeed, perhaps the need is not fully appreciated in this country as it ought to be. This point is quite obvious if one looks at the level of sophistication of education of United States naval officers, for example, compared with that currently available to their Australian counterparts. Whilst the report admits the benefit of cadets being involved in the military environment, as it is called, as much as possible during their tertiary studies, it also says that there were advantages in the additional use of tertiary institutions, in which there are increasingly additional places available. The report acknowledged that there appears to be capacity in existing educational institutions to take additional students. 
The report in essence concluded that 'it was not expedient to proceed with the proposals for Casey University'. If I may say so to the Committee, that is a phrase that will appeal very much to Government senators. What is expedient and what is not expedient runs very high in the allocation of priorities by this Government. The words of the Committee are that it would not be expedient to proceed with Casey University. The Committee is right on the wavelength of the present Government in making that sort of observation. We hope that if for no other reason such as the question of principle this project will not be proceeded with; that the pet idea of the Prime Minister will not be proceeded with. Hopefully  Senator Carrick  will have an extra $ I m to play with in respect of educational institutions when he makes a statement on education guidelines next week. He nods his head. I cannot over-emphasise how much I am on  Senator Carrick  's side in commenting on this report. We would hope that he would have available more money for expenditure on legitimate tertiary education institutions; that money will no longer be wasted by this Government on this absurd  Dr Strangelove  academy which the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister have been pursuing; that the money will be allocated more appropriately in the course of the education budget to enable  Senator Carrick  to fulfill some of the promises he has made in the past about education; and that the country will not suffer in any sense by the abandonment of this pet project. 
-by leave-Mr  President,  for the benefit of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  I shall recount what happened. I take it that that is what he wishes me to do. Shortly before the suspension of the sitting for lunch,  Senator Walsh  moved, in essence, that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Government in the Senate from making a statement explaining why he had misled the Senate in Question Time this morning. I take it that I have been invited to indicate the background to the matter. I do so in these terms: At Question Time this morning I asked the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  some questions relating to the reasons for the failure to proclaim the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. The first question I asked  Senator Webster  this morning was: 
Is it a Tact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area covered by permits Q/4P and Q/5P infringe on the proposed section ofthe Marine Park? 

 Senator Webster answered that question by saying, firstly-, that it had been asked five times before and that I was stupid to ask it again. As I indicated this morning, that is an allegation to which at times I plead guilty. As I think every honourable senator ought to do. I went on to say that in respect of this particular issue I did not regard the question as a stupid one and that, as it was a proper question, it required a proper answer from the Minister.  Senator Webster  told the Senate that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park had not been declared because of constitutional questions which had to be resolved in discussions with the 
Queensland Government. I then asked a supplementary question of  Senator Webster.  I asked whether he was aware of the fact that in the House of Representatives today the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  had given a completely different answer to the same question, saying yes, it was a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park had not been declared because of the permits to which I referred in my question this morning. 
In answer to the supplementary question which I directed to  Senator Webster  as to whether he was aware of the answer which  Mr Newman  gave in the House of Representatives, he gave an answer which I am not able to quote in detail, because in spite of inquiries to his office as to whether the ' pinks ' of that answer would be available to me, I have not been able to obtain the answer in detail. However, perhaps it is not terribly important to the substance of the issue that is now before the Senate. The substance of  Senator Webster's  answer was that the question asked in the House of Representatives was a different question altogether. I then drew the Senate's attention, in a question addressed to  Senator Carrick,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, to the precise question which had been asked in the House of Representatives and the precise answer which had been given in the House of Representatives, which precise answer was quite contrary to the precise answer given to the same question asked of  Senator Webster  in the Senate. I drew attention to the fact that the questions were identical. I drew attention to  Mr Newman's  answers and I then sought to ask the Leader of the Government,  Senator Carrick,  which of the two Ministers was misleading the Parliament:  Mr Newman  in the House of Representatives or  Senator Webster  in the Senate. 
In the course of the exercise of addressing that question to  Senator Carrick,  a note was passed by  Senator Webster  to  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Webster  rose on what he said was a point of order while  Senator Carrick  was starting to answer my question.  Senator Webster  interrupted the answer which was being given by  Senator Carrick  and said: 
I have been in touch with my office and with  Mr Newman,  and  Mr Newman  said that he answered yes to two questions which were not the questions which the Acting Leader of the Opposition is attempting to infer. 
Armed with that interjection or point or order from  Senator Webster, Senator Carrick  then proceeded to answer my question. I had asked which of the two Ministers was misleading the 
Parliament. In answering that question  Senator Carrick  said: 
 As I gather from  Senator Webster,  no Minister is misleading the Parliament- only the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition . . . 
Firstly in respect of the allegation which  Senator Webster  made in answer to my earlier question this morning, namely, that it was a stupid question, and secondly in respect of  Senator Carrick  's statement that 1 was misleading the Parliament, if you please,  Mr President,  in a question, I sought to make and did make a personal explanation to the Senate before the luncheon adjournment. I did so on the basis of a perusal of the exact answers to the questions taken by  Hansard  in each place and my interpretation of them. 1 think there is nothing that has happened since that has led me to change my interpretation of what the questions and the answers mean. In those circumstances, I claim to have been misrepresented. I appreciate that the Minister has in the course of proceedings in the Senate this afternoon, indicated an apology to me. I respect him for the manner in which he has dealt with this matter to date. Those are the matters on which the alleged misrepresentation is based. 
-As I said earlier, I appreciate  Senator Carrick  's personal approach to the issues involved in this matter. With the greatest respect, insofar as the substance of the issues are concerned, it is not good enough. At Question Time today  Senator Carrick  behaved, as I imagine he thought he behaved, with great deftness in answering the question that was put to him. This is what one might expect of a Minister dealing with a question. This afternoon in his explanation of the discrepancy between the two answers he pleaded, on behalf of  Mr Newman,  great deafness. That is why  Mr Newman  was not able to answer the question in the House of Representatives in the same way as  Senator Webster  answered in this chamber. I find it an extraordinary statement that a Minister with the responsibility of  Mr Newman  answered in the way that he did a question which he had not heard. 
This matter is relevant to a long standing issue in the Senate regarding standards which honourable senators opposite are entitled to expect in answers to questions which they direct to Ministers. This is not the first day that questions relating to the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef have been raised in this chamber. This matter has been raised day after day at Question Time. I think it has been raised on three occasions by way of a censure motion against the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  for giving conflicting answers, for giving answers which are nonanswers and for fudging the issue. We had that bizarre Question Time a week ago when the Minister for Science and the Environment just refused to answer any questions on this issue at all. Today when he was asked a question on this issue he was, of course, quite clear in the answer which he gave. Later in Question Time both he and  Senator Carrick  indulged in a course of conduct which was a confident one. In a point of order  Senator Webster  said that the position was quite clear. He told us what it was. He misled  Senator Carrick  by saying that.  Senator Carrick,  who relied on  Senator Webster's  answer, as he relies on the advice of other advisers, then proceeded to mislead the Senate on the basis of that answer. He made an accusation against me in particular. 
The problem for an Opposition is to use Question Time to elicit accurate answers from Ministers and to raise matters which are of concern to the Australian community such as the particular issue that we have been discussing. For a very long time we have been trying to get answers on this particular question of what the Government's attitude to the proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is. We have never been given satisfactory answers. Today we get the final answer- the final solution, as it were- of the Webster-Carrick duo, which is that we do not even know what is happening in the House of Representatives in the Opposition. We are even misled to that extent. 
A lot has been said by this Government about the standards which one can expect from Ministers of this Government. On 8 August the Prime 
Minister, who is the great layer-down of standards of propriety, when discussing the dismissal of  Senator Withers  said: 
We had no doubt that our first and foremost responsibility was the maintenance of the high standards of propriety set and maintained by this Government. 
The community rightly demand a high standard from the Ministers of the Government. The judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life. If these high standards were not upheld, the people's confidence in government- a confidence which is fundamental to Australian democracy- would be undermined. 
The Government has an obligation to uphold them even though the cost can be and is in this instance, a high one. 
It was a high one indeed for  Senator Withers.  But we on the Opposition side do not object if a Minister says at Question Time: 'I do not know the answer to that question. I will get it for you '. That is an appropriate answer at Question Time- 1 do not know the answer. But  Senator Webster  has all the answers. He gives them to us ad infinitum- every Question Time all the answers to all the questions. The answer to the question today, which was directed by me, the information which he gave to  Senator Carrick,  was in each case completely false. It was wrong, and he did not maintain the high standards of which the Prime Minister of this country continually and so glibly talks. Of course there are plenty of other examples of that situation, and there is no better example than in the statement of  Senator Webster  himself. In 1975 he said: 
A leader with any respect for his own image would declare immediately in this Parliament that he had misled the Parliament, although perhaps unintentionally. 
It was not unintentionally this morning, it was ignorantly. Surely those who have followed the disgrace and discharge of the various Ministers during these past few months must endorse my comments, that any leader with any respect for his own image would resign immediately. I repeat that I respect the manner in which  Senator Carrick  personally dealt with the matter after the incident which took place at Question Time. But the complaint that we have is that the Ministers of this Government are not using Question Time properly, as it ought to be used, and that this morning  Senator Carrick  went so far as to rely on the advice of a totally discredited Minister on the particular issue which was the subject of questions and discussion in the Senate. 
I wish to take the matter no further. But I am grateful to  Senator Carrick  for making the time available for the matter to be discussed. It is important from the point of view of this Parliament that the Opposition's view is quite clear on matters of this kind. We are not interested in potting 

 Senator Webster on issues of this kind. We are interested in getting clear answers to questions. We have not done that. We have got answers today which are not only unclear but also are untrue or misrepresentative of the true situation, and they were used in the course of Question Time not only to fuzz the issue but also to misrepresent the position of the Opposition in the course of this debate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the boundaries of the proposed Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park overlap the areas of permits Q/4P and Q/5P? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is it a fact that the boundaries of the proposed Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park overlap the areas of permits Q/4P and Q/5P? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I refer the Minister to his guidelines for the Tertiary Education Commission issued on 9 June 1978. In these guidelines the Minister stated: 
The Government may find it possible to review the capital allocation for 1979 and the Commission - 
That is, the Tertiary Education Commission-  is asked to have in reserve some high priority projects which could be added to its recommended program. 
I ask: What effort did the Tertiary Education Commission expend in preparing such a list of high priority projects and in fact were any further projects added? With the benefit of hindsight does the Minister regard this somewhat ad hoc method as the best way of planning capital expenditure in education? 
-! move: 
Page 2, after clause 3, add the following new clause: 
Notwithstanding any reference in Section 3 to any extension or extensions of the term of the appointment of the Honourable Russell Walter Fox as Ambassadorat.large, the terms of his appointment shall expire on 3 1 December 1980.'. 
In the course of the second reading debate I indicated the Opposition's concern that this appointment is floating not only in the sense that  Mr Justice  Fox seems to be floating around the world but also in the sense of the uncertainty in relation to the duration of the appointment and in relation to extensions which might be made to it. The purpose of the proposed new clause is simply to terminate the appointment finally on 31 December 1980. If  Mr Justice  Fox has not succeeded by that time in achieving some of the Government's stated intentions in relation to this matter then a full explanation should be given to the Parliament and an effort should be made either to amend this legislation again or to introduce new legislation to cover any further appointment. That is the purpose of the amendment. I do not really need to say anything more about it than that. 
Firstly, I point out that this appointment is of a very special kind. Secondly, I ask the AttorneyGeneral on how many occasions  Mr Justice  Fox has had his appointment extended to this date. 
-by leave-The Opposition had no knowledge that this course was to be adopted today. Whilst I do not find any particular difficulty because of that I am sure it has not been the best situation for  Senator Cavanagh  to be confronted with this statement today without some prior knowledge of it. I understand that the matter has now been referred to the Privileges Committee of the House of Representatives, at the instigation of  Mr Burns,  the relevant member of the House of Representatives. If one looks at the situation revealed by the documentation before the Senate, the first thing which is clear is that on 31 May in the House of Representatives what  Mr Burns  was asking for was an apology from  Senator Cavanagh.  I was present in the Senate on the night of 31 May, when I believe  Senator Cavanagh  made a most dignified apology to this Senate in the circumstances. 
Even today,  Mr President,  you allowed questions and undertook to give answers to questions raised in this place which go to the circumstances of this matter. You were asked by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  to look further into the matter. On behalf of the Opposition I invite you to look into a number of matters which go to the validity of the statement made on behalf of the Joint House Department which is not, with the greatest respect, a very specific document in terms of the discussion of this matter which has gone on. I also invite you to look at some of the circumstances raised by  Senator O  'Byrne in his statement today, and to look at the apology which was made by  Senator Cavanagh  on the night of 31 May. I reiterate that, with the greatest respect, in the difficult circumstances of this matter, which  Senator Cavanagh  illustrated in his apology on Thursday night, it would have been proper for some notice of this procedure to have been given today. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia )-by leave- On Thursday my statement was denied by the one person who I thought would admit it was true. I said in the statement that it could not be substantiated. Therefore, 1 did the only thing which I thought proper, which was to apologise to anyone I had injured with that statement. Recorded in  Sir Erskine  May's  Parliamentary Practice  is a case which arose in the House of Commons in which a member was brought before the Privileges Committee for making a derogatory statement against another member. Because he had apologised by letter, and the statement was made outside the House, no further action was taken. I would welcome an inquiry into this question because, whilst I was prepared to apologise, I would like many of the witnesses to give evidence on oath and under cross-examination. I notice that the housekeeper did not make a statement to you,  Mr President;  a statement was made by the Joint House Department. Like  Senator Button,  I think this inquiry ought to be extended to the whole of the activities of the Joint House Department. There are many revelations to come out of this. Notice has been given in the House of Representatives of a motion that the matter be referred to the House of Representatives Privileges Committee.  Senator Carrick  has asked that you,  Mr President,  do what is necessary. Whilst I welcome any investigation into the matter, I do not think I should be accused twice.  Mr President,  you and  Mr Speaker  must decide between yourselves which committee deals with the questionthe House of Representatives Privileges Committee or, as a result of action by the  President  of this Chamber, the Senate Privileges Committee. 
-The Opposition opposes the course proposed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  I will indicate briefly why. I am sorry to delay the Minister.  Senator Chipp's  Bill goes to a very important issue which is of concern to a great number of Australians. The Opposition feels that it is a matter which should be dealt with now and not postponed in the manner in which the Minister has suggested. In the course of his remarks in support of his Bill,  Senator Chipp  indicated that this was a matter of concern to him as a former shadow Minister in the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition and was of concern to him because of a promise which was made by that Opposition in 1975 in relation to this matter and which has since been broken. 
I refer the Senate to the consequences of that broken promise insofar as it affects the persons who might be subject to the provisions of  Senator Chipp's  Bill if it is dealt with by those Government senators who, like  Senator Baume,  are rightly concerned about this matter as a welfare issue. I shall illustrate that by referring particularly to an article in the  Age  of 1 June 1979 which indicates that Australian Government pensions and unemployment benefits are well below the poverty line, according to the latest survey of the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. The article states: 
Poverty line figures released yesterday show that while pensions have remained static since November, the poverty line has been steadily increasing. 
This is the subject matter which goes right to the heart of  Senator Chipp's  Bill. The article continues: 
Single parents and unemployed people with families are worst off. 
After pensions and family allowance, single parents with two children are $27.38 a week below the poverty line estimated by the institute. 
An unemployed man with a wife and four children is $28.68 below the poverty line. 
Professor Ronald Henderson, chairman of the institute and former commissioner inquiring into poverty said Australia's pensions condemned recipients to a life of poverty. 
He said calls for social security pension cuts were monstrous when existing pensions were too low. 
The ordinary age pension is now $2.90 below the poverty line. Three months ago it was50c below. 
I draw those figures to the attention of Government senators in terms of particular pensions. The unemployed single person's pension is now $51.45 a week; the poverty level is $69.50 a week. The difference between the two figures is $18.05. The difference between the figures for the pension and the poverty line for an unemployed married couple is $ 1 8.30. All the figures show a substantial difference, the most substantial being that of the single parent with two children, where the difference between the poverty line and the pension payable is $27.38.I should have thought that the machinery motion which  Senator Chaney  has moved would be of great concern to the Government senators who, a year or so ago, were agitated to some extent- not to the extent of taking any drastic action- by the abolition of the promise made by the Fraser Opposition in 1975 and its effects on the recipients of pensions. 
The figures to which I have just referred show that the discrepancy between the pension and the poverty line has increased so significantly since that degree of agitation, remorse, guilt and regret fluttered through the hearts of Government senators a year ago. I have drawn attention to them because  Senator Chaney,  in moving that  Senator Chipp's  Bill be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting, is essentially seeking the adjournment of the consideration of a very important piece of legislation for which  Senator Chipp  is to be congratulated for his endeavours. The Government is attempting to bury this important issue which concerned some Government senators a year ago but which does not seem to concern them now. It would be sad if the Senate were to rush into an adjournment and holidays, as some Government senators no doubt will do-  Senator Chaney  excludedwithout considering this matter as it ought to be considered. Accordingly, I oppose the motion. 
-As I understand it we are having a cognate debate on two machinery Bills in relation to education matters. At the outset 1 wish to make some general comments about the state of education funding in Australia and to illustrate those general comments by referring to some documents. I wish to be quite brief in my remarks on these Bills because I think it was foreshadowed in the little horror Budget statement of last Thursday week that the Senate would have an opportunity to debate the matter of education funding some time this week. Quite apart from any question of keeping one 's powder dry, it is important that we should debate the matter in the context of the cuts which have been foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and which we assume the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is still working on, having been told that they would take place. 
As I said, these two Bills are essentially machinery matters. I shall talk firstly about some general aspects of them. There has been much talk in the Senate in the course of a number of debates on education matters about the question of the general level of education funding in respect of two governments- the Whitlam Government and the Fraser Government. I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that in 1971-72 and 1972- 73- the last years of the Liberal McMahon Government- expenditure on education by the Australian Government in constant dollar terms based on 1970-71 values, was $327m in 1971-72 and $390m in 1972-73. In 1973-74 that expenditure doubled to $666m. In 1974-75 the figure was $ 1 , 089m and in 1 975-76 it was $ 1 , 094m. In 1973- 74 annual expenditure on education increased by 92.8 per cent. In 1974-75 it increased by 90.8 per cent and in 1975-76 it increased by 13.5 per cent. The estimated increase in expenditure for the year 1 978-79 is plus 6.1 per cent. In terms of constant 1971 dollars those figures represent an enormous increase in education expenditure in the years of the Whitlam Government and a tailing off to plus 0.5 per cent in the first year, plus 2.8 per cent in the second year, minus 0.4 per cent in the third year and an estimated minus 1.8 per cent in the fourth year of the Fraser Government. Those figures were provided by the Parliamentary Library's Statistical Service. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

<para class="block" pgwide="yes">AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT OUTLAY ON EDUCATION IN CURRENT AND CONSTANT 1970-71 DOLLARS 1970-71 TO 1978-79 

<graphic href="081232197906042_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

Those bald figures reflect both the general position in relation to education funding-- 
-Perhaps they can be drawn to my attention at a later stage. 
-No. I indicated that the figures were supplied by the Parliamentary Library. A copy of the second document to which I wish to refer has been made available to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).I  indicated that the figures in the first document were raw, and the Minister has indicated that they might be more raw than I thought, but we can hear about that later. The second document relates to the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill and the perceived needs of schools in the Australian community in 1978-79.I refer in particular to the report of a survey which was conducted professionally on behalf of the Australian Teachers Federation. It is entitled: 'National Survey of Conditions in Schools: The National Report'. That survey was conduced under the direction of  Dr J.  P. Keeves, Director of the Australian Council for Educational Research, Professor Sid Dunn,  Chairman  of the Education Research and Development Committee and members of the Australian National University Survey Research Centre. The results of the survey were processed by Professor Northcote of the South Australian 
Institute of Technology. The results of the survey were summarised in the following terms: 
The results give cause for concern. Only half those students perceived by their teachers to need extra help in basic skills are receiving it. Schools throughout Australia are being kept waiting for building improvements that have been approved by State Governments but cannot proceed because funding has been cut by the Federal Government. 
The report goes on to deal with the special needs of students which were perceived by the survey and, more particularly, with school building requirements. I refer to page 2 of the document which I have made available to the Minister, where it is stated under the heading 'School Building Requirements': 
The virtual freeze in capital works funds which has been experienced since 1976 is reflected in the survey results. 
Fifty-one point six per cent of Australian schools have made application for a major renovation, structural alteration or addition to buildings. Sixty per cent of these have been approved by their department or authority. 
I repeat that sentence: 
Sixty per cent of these have been approved by their department or authority. 
The report continued: 
However, only 27 per cent of those have seen a start made on their building program and on average they have been waiting 11.3 months. 
The worst affected areas are inner urban infants schools and secondary schools, technical schools in all areas and country secondary schools. 
The report goes on to deal with the details of some of the deficiencies in the building program and various other matters which relate to learning conditions, suitability of accommodation and so on. I seek leave to have the report on that survey incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The report read as follows- 

THE AUSTRALIAN TEACHERS FEDERATION 
National Survey of Conditions in Schools The National Report 
Introduction 
In 1976 the Australian Teachers' Federation conducted the first survey of conditions in schools throughout Australia. This year another survey has been conducted. 
The survey provides a comprehensive picture of conditions in Australian schools: the needs of students, the staffing situation, class sizes, the conditions of buildings and facilities. 
The 1978 Survey provides data for comparison with the previous survey in the areas of staffing and class sizes. It also includes new data on special needs in basic skills and the backlog in school building programs. 
The survey was carried out in March and April of this by means of a stratified random sample of 14 per cent of all schools in Australia. Responses totalled 894 representing an 85 per cent sample response, or 12.7 per cent of all Australian schools. 
The sampling technique was approved by a consultative panel of eminent researchers which included  Dr J.  P. Keeves, Director of the Australian Council for Educational Research, Professor S. S. Dunn,  Chairman  of the Education Research and Development Committee and members of the Australian National University Survey Research Centre. 
The results of the survey have been processed by Professor R. S. Northcote, Head of Computer Studies at the South Australian Institute of Technology. 
The Results 
The results give cause for concern. Only half those students perceived by their teachers to need extra help in basic skills arc receiving it. Schools throughout Australia are being kept waiting for building improvements that have been approved by State Governments but cannot proceed because funding has been cut by the Federal Government. 
Students' Special Needs 
In Australian Government schools only half those students perceived by their teachers to be needing extra help in basic skills were receiving any assistance. 
Forty-nine per cent of those students needing migrant or intensive English were receiving no extra assistance. 
Sixty per cent of those students needing remedial number help were receiving no extra assistance. 
Forty-nine per cent of those students needing remedial reading help were receiving no extra assistance. 
Altogether in Australia there were 328,000 students needing extra help who were receiving no assistance. 
Migrant needs are still greatest in the inner urban areas. In inner metropolitan primary schools 18.5 per cent of all children need migrant English. Only 47.7 per cent of these children are receiving this help. In inner metropolitan technical schools 36. 1 percent of students needing migrant English are not receiving this help. 
An additional disturbing feature revealed by the survey was that the drift of the migrant population to the outer suburbs had not been matched by a movement of migrant English specialist teachers to these areas- 87 per cent of infants or junior primary migrant pupils in the outer suburbs were missing out on the migrant teaching they needed. 
Students in the inner urban primary and technical schools were most in need of additional help with reading and number work with nearly a quarter of students at inner urban technical schools needing but not receiving remedial number and remedial reading help. 
Remedial problems are exacerbated by overcrowded classes in infants and primary schools. Seventy-three per cent of primary classes in Australian schools exceeded the ATF Charter of Working Conditions of 25 students per class. Thirty-eight per cent of primary classes in Australian schools were over 30. It is impossible for teachers to deal with the individual learning needs of students in these classes. Many students in these classes have particular problems with English or with reading or number work which require additional help. In overcrowded classes these children have little chance of improvement. 
A comparison of the 1 976 and 1 978 results shows little improvement in class sizes over the last two years. In 1976 75 per cent of primary and infant classes contained over 25 students. In 1 978 the figure is 73 per cent. 
School Building Requirements 
While there have been some improvements in general maintenance and heating of existing school buildings over the last two years there has been very little improvement in school facilities. Money for capital works in schools comes largely from the Federal Government through direct grants or from loans funds. Even if State Governments approve building applications from schools as being necessary they may not have the funds from the Federal Government to proceed with them. 
The virtual freeze in capital works funds which has been experienced since 1 976 is reflected in the survey results. 
Fifty-one point six per cent of Australian schools have made application for a major renovation, structural alteration or addition to buildings. Sixty per cent of these have been approved by their department or authority. However, only 27 per cent of those have seen a start made on their building program and on average they have been waiting 1 1.3 months. 
The worst affected areas are inner urban infants schools and secondary schools, technical schools in all areas and country secondary schools. 
Fifty-seven per cent of inner urban schools had made application for major improvements. All these applications are approved, however work has started at only 25 per cent of them and they have been waiting on average 22 months. 
All country technical schools have made application for major building improvements. Sixty per cent have been given approval. Only 1 7 per cent of these have seen a start made on the projects and they have been waiting on average nearly 4 years ( 46 months ). 
Students' special needs, class sizes and building requirements are the areas of greatest need, however other needs were revealed in the survey. 
Careers Counselling 
The area of careers counselling is one which must cause concern. On average, Australian students receive 1.2 hours per year of careers counselling. Secondary students receive 2.7 hours per year and technical students 3.5 hours per year. 
Students have contact with the work-force mainly through their parents, teachers and TV and books. Many books in primary schools portray an unrealistic view of the world of work: 'Here is Mummy washing the dishes. Here is Daddy the Fireman. ' 
There is a need for all students to have adequate counselling and be given accurate information on work, if they arc to leave schools with a realistic idea of what work is about. 
Suitable Accommodation 
Many classes are being held in classrooms inappropriate for the purpose e.g. science lessons not in science laboratories, English lessons in technical rooms. This affects particularly country schools. There is an urgent need for 1,100 additional classrooms in country secondary schools and an additional 1,000 classrooms in country technical schools. Altogether 9,500 new classrooms are required in Australia to overcome the problem of classes being held in inappropriate areas. 
Physical Working/ Learning Conditions 
Although there have been some overall improvements in day-to-day working conditions in schools there were still major areas of concern. Nearly a quarter of schools (24.3 per cent) in Australia had overdue maintenance needs. Only 79.2 per cent of schools were adequately heated in winter and only 40.9 per cent of schools adequately cooled in summer. In Canberra schools have had to close because of poor ventilation. Throughout Australia children are having to work in conditions that their parents are protected from by industrial legislation. In many instances schools are excluded from State ordinances that govern other work places. 
Worst affected are inner urban and country schools. Less than half (46.5 per cent) of inner urban technical schools are adequately heated in winter. Just over a quarter of inner urban infants schools (26.8 percent) are adequately cooled in summer. The extensive use of demountable classrooms in the country adds to the problems of heating and cooling. 
Interference to classes by traffic noise was a major problem for inner urban schools with nearly a third (31.4 per cent) of inner urban primary Schools affected. 
Conclusion 
The survey of capital needs confirms the Schools Commission's Report for the triennium 1979-81 which identified school building needs or more than $2,575m. There must be a significant improvement in the level of Commonwealth funding for capital works if the great backlog in school building needs is to be overcome. 
There is also a need for increased Commonwealth recurrent funding if the States are to be able to provide the extra remedial teachers so urgently required to improve careers counselling and to lower the size of classes in lower primary and infant classes, particularly in those areas where children have special needs. 
DAVID WIDDUP Research Officer 
A complete national and State analysis with data will be published later. lmr/8May 1978 

<graphic href="081232197906042_36_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_36_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_36_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_36_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_37_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_37_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_37_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_37_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_38_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906042_38_1.jpg"></graphic>

In relation to schools, it is, of course, with glib lore that  Senator Carrick  is able to say- with great respect, I do not think entirely accurately- that government schools have reached target resources as suggested by the Karmel Committee. I refer to the passage of the Schools Commission Report for the Triennium 1979-81 dated April 1978 which deals with this specific question. I assume that report is to be the document upon which  Senator Carrick  relies. The Commission had this to say in paragraph 3.32 of its report: 
The Commission does not believe that it is possible precisely to predict future State decisions on resources for schools; projections of previous trends are likely to be seriously in error. For example, projections of the trends of previous years into 1977-78 would have been wrong, as the preliminary estimates, while appearing to confirm continued growth in some States, indicate a slowing down at either the primary or secondary level or both in other States, and a decline in another. 
Nevertheless only New South Wales and Western Australia at the primary level and Queensland at the secondary level are likely to be short of the targets by the end of 1978. They are all within sufficient reach of the targets to attain them in 1979 or at the latest by 1980 if there is some continuation of the growth in the State resources and if Commonwealth general recurrent grants are provided as proposed in Chapter 5. In short, the original targets may be reached by almost all government systems by the originally scheduled year of 1 979. 
That passage specifically draws attention to the discrepancies between the performance of government systems in various States and to the apparent deficiencies in New South Wales and Western Australia at the primary level and in Queensland at the secondary level. If the figures quoted by the Schools Commission at page 35 in terms of target resource standards are translated into 1979 terms, the $845 primary resource standard becomes $960 and the $ 1,446 secondary resource standard becomes $1,524. Perhaps it is easy at this stage to rely purely on the Schools Commission report of April 1978 and conclude that schools in Australia have reached the desired level of resource standards suggested by the Karmel Committee. 
These matters, first of all in relation to schools, are of increasing concern to the Australian community. There is some doubt about the capacity of schools to reach the level of resource standards desired, in terms of the configuration which the Karmel Committee talked about. One need not be too nitpicking about the Government's achievements in this regard because until quite recently one suspects that the Minister was striving to attain those standards as soon as possible. There is some doubt about the reality of the resource standards obtained but, more than that, in terms of Commonwealth funding there has been a total inability by this Government to make significant contributions to particular programs which seem to be areas of particular need. For example, I refer to the failure of the Government to act on the Schools Commission 's recommendations regarding disadvantage in rural schools. Other programs such as the program for migrant children, the innovations program and the disadvantaged schools program are still very important but the Government has not been able to make any significant increases in respect of them. I think that is sad for the education system in this country as a whole, and it is a cause of continuing concern. However, these are matters which can be dealt with in the context of an anticipated statement some time this week. 
I refer briefly to the question of funding of tertiary education and the relevant Bill relating to it. Before doing so, I draw attention to the fact that in the second reading speech the Minister for Education has made a number of references to the activities of this Government in education policy, which seem to centre around a number of reports. Every time an education issue is raised a new committee of inquiry is appointed to deal with it. We wait with bated breath- as we did with the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, and get a pronunciamento of the most doubtful validity and value. For example, the Williams report, which was described with a degree of euphoria before it was presented as a blueprint for education to the year 2000, seems to have resulted only in a sort of governmental hangover. 
Much can be said of this method of dealing with education issues by establishing yet another committee, and I refer to some of the committees which have been established and the reports that have been made available to the Government. Regular reports have been received from the Schools Commission and the Tertiary Education Commission. There are numerous matters in those reports which have not been acted on, but I do not want to go into detail about that at the moment. Others include the Williams report, the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, the Australian Council of Educational Research report on literacy and numeracy, and the report of yet another inquiry, the Auchmuty Inquiry into Teacher Education, which one suspects was stimulated by that debate about literacy and numeracy. Each of those reports make recommendations that one imagines are supposed to be in fulfilment of the Minister's frequent statements that what this Government is concerned about is qualitative considerations in education in the context of the argument of getting itself off the hook about quantitative considerations. Of course, we are all concerned about qualitative issues in education, but whenever one asks a question about them in this place one is told that yet another committee of inquiry is looking into the problem. 
With the greatest respect, it is absolutely fair. The honourable senator knows that on numerous occasions questions have been asked about literacy and numeracy. The answer is: 'Ha, ha! Literacy and numeracy! The Auchmuty Committee will look into this matter and pronounce'. Before the Williams Committee reported, any questions relating to tertiary education, particularly the technical and further education sector, were answered in much the same way: 'The Williams Committee will provide an answer to this question '.lam not condemning the Minister for that. I am sure that he believed that these committees would provide answers, but the sad fact is that one must have the gravest doubts about whether they did. Of course, I suppose that is a very useful Question Time device. 
I refer briefly to the question of tertiary education funding in the context of these two Bills. We are concerned that the tertiary education sector should not in any sense be made the scapegoat for the Government's performance in managing the Budget deficit. Of course, the question will arise very nicely at the forthcoming Premiers Conference, both in relation to schools and in relation to aspects of tertiary education funding. It is after the Premiers Conference that we might have the most valuable debate about whether the State contribution in terms of school funding and in terms of funding of certain areas of tertiary education can be maintained and has been maintained, and whether the States will have the capacity to maintain that contribution in the light of general revenue cutbacks and in the light of their expressed concern not to impose the State taxation stage of new federalism. There are some broad facts about which we must be concerned in relation to tertiary education. In spite of the age demography of the secondary student population in Australia, by 1980 there will be approximately 13Vi per cent more young people in the final year of secondary school than there were in 1975. On present projections, the relative number of places available in a tertiary institution will be unchanged. Of course, the Williams committee had something to say about that in the course of its recommendations, although what it said could not be regarded as very conclusive. The Committee said that in 1978 enrolments in universities and colleges of advanced education were slightly greater than the proposed level. In fact, there was a slightly inaccurate estimate of those enrolments. 
There are substantial differences in participation rates, and therefore differences in equality of access to tertiary education, between the States. For example, the rates vary from 22.7 per cent of the 17 to 22 year age group in Western Australia to 13.4 per cent of that age group in Tasmania. Because of unavoidable increases in expenditure universities and colleges are being asked to find savings in 1 979 in the order of 5 per cent compared with what was spent in 1975. I make it quite clear that when I say that is a matter of regret and concern in relation to tertiary education, I believe very strongly that the universities themselves have some responsibilies in this matter. In terms of the administration and management of universities I am not satisfied and I am not sure that universities have responded in an appropriate way to the Government's policies. I regret the Government's policies, but I think it is incumbent upon university administrations to respond to them in a realistic way. 
There are areas of great deficiency, for example in university financing, particularly in areas such as research. I think that all honourable senators are aware of areas of relative affluence in universities. That is a situation in which it is hard to impose the burden of responsibility on governments, unless the universities are prepared to take some responsibility in ironing out those differences. Last year the Government reduced by $ 12m the amounts proposed by the Tertiary Education Commission for operating expenditure of universities and colleges and froze that level of funding for 1979 and 1980. Presumably we will hear more about that tomorrow, so I do not wish to speak at any great length about what happened last year. I am more interested to find out what will happen next year. 

 Senator Teague raised with me earlier whether it was quite fair to criticise the Government for setting up a number of inquiries and so on, and to use the establishment of those inquiries as an answer, as it were, to questions of qualitative concern. lt is perhaps a little glib, with respect, to try to distinguish qualitative from quantitative considerations in the constitutional context of funding education. I remind honourable senators of the statements which have been made by various Ministers. I refer particularly to what the Minister for Education has said in the past about these matters. For example, in a statement to the Senate on 30 March 1 977 on a matter of urgency regarding education  Senator Carrick  said: 
Those who claim here or elsewhere that we have made cuts in federal education expenditure are deliberately misrepresenting the situation. We have expanded education in every field. 
The first part of that statement can be subject to some qualifications; the second part to more qualifications. He went on to say: 
The simple fact is that in terms of the quantity of funds provided in every direction, in the quality of delivery and in an understanding of the goals of education, an understanding that we ought to get back to the basics of education, to make sure that we look at the basic skills- numeracy and literacy as well as innovation- this Government is setting a lead, lt is a lead that is recognised throughout Australia. 

 Senator Carrick was of course talking about another inquiry which was to be set up. The point I seek to make is that it is very difficult to distinguish qualitative considerations- if they are things one just talks about in the Senate- from quantitative considerations in view of the role of the Federal Government in education funding, lt has no real constitutional power. The role has been assumed by Federal governments of both persuasions, creating this somewhat messy situation which we have in which it is difficult to divine a national purpose in education and educational funding. All of us in this Parliament are to some extent subject to the whims of State governments. 
The Opposition regards the basic issues raised by these Bills as being of concern. We do not oppose the legislation because it is machinery legislation which is necessary- it has been necessary in the life of every governmentbecause of increased salaries, expenses and so on. For that reason, we do not oppose it, but it is our desire to draw attention to some of the basic concerns and issues involved in education funding. 
-The Opposition has prepared and circulated an amendment to the Judiciary (Diplomatic Representation) Amendment Bill 1979. It is a quite small Bill and is quite circumspect in what it intends to do. In a moment I shall explain the nature of the amendment which the Opposition desires to move. Insofar as the object of the legislation is to ratify, as it were, any irregularities about the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-at-Large on nuclear matters, the Opposition is not concerned to oppose it, and it does not do so. The purpose of the amendment which is to be moved is to indicate that, whatever extensions of this appointment are made by stealth or artificially or in whatever other way the Government is concerned to make them, they should not be made beyond 31 December 1980. The reason for that is quite clearly and simply that the view of the Opposition is that there must be a clear understanding of the duration of this appointment and there should perhaps be more reporting to the Parliament about the cost of the appointment and, of course, the effectiveness of the activities of  Mr Justice  Fox. 
I illustrate the problem by referring in particular to some questions which have been asked in relation to this matter. I asked the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  about this appointment a week or two ago in the Senate. It was at that time that he introduced the legislation which is now before the Senate. Some of the concerns which are now the subject of a question on the Notice Paper to the Government are to ascertain the total cost of  Mr Justice  Fox's mission, if I might call it that, in the financial year 1977-78 and from 1 July 1978 to date; more particularly, to find out some of the details of those costs in terms of air travel, accommodation, transport for both  Mr Justice  Fox and his wife and salaries of persons concerned with his mission; and, more importantly, to find out the estimated cost of the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox up to 31 
December 1980. That is the date on which the foreshadowed amendment suggests that the appointment should expire. The appointment has also been subject to some queries in the House of Representatives. I refer to a question asked on 10 May 1979 by  Mr Lionel  Bowen of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock). Mr Bowen  asked: 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs studied the paper published by the International Consultative Group on Nuclear Energy in November 1978 entitled 'International Custody of Plutonium Stocks: A First Step Towards an International Regime for Sensitive Nuclear Energy Activities', of which the authors were Russel Fox and Mason Will rich' While recognising that the views expressed in the paper by the Ambassador-at-Large for Australia may be personal, I ask the Minister whether he will inform the House of his own or the Government 's assessment of the views put forward in that paper? 

 Mr Peacock replied: 
I have read the article and have had discussions with  Mr Justice  Fox. 1 am having the departments concerned also examine the matter and I will provide more detailed information later rather than express a personal view in the House at this juncture. 
At this stage that has not been done. I do not make any particular point about that. But I refer to the fact that the matter was again raised by  Mr Lionel  Bowen on 22 May in the course of a debate in the House of Representatives.  Mr Bowen  drew attention to the fact that the paper had been published in November 1978, that the proposals contained in it were largely personal ones put forward by the judge and his co-author, and that the approach was a quite radical one in respect of which the Government had made no particular pronouncement. The fact of the matter is that six months after the publication of  Mr Justice  Fox's paper a question was asked by  Mr Lionel  Bowen of  Mr Peacock.  Other questions have been asked on the same matter and in the course of that period the Government has signed an agreement with the Republic of Korea. That matter was referred to also in the course of a debate in the Senate on 22 May this year. 
What the Opposition is concerned about is that there should be answers to these questions as well as to the fundamental question of whether or not  Mr Justice  Fox is being used as a device by which the Government can defuse questions about its nuclear policy, and particularly about arrangements such as that entered into with South Korea. By having  Mr Justice  Fox in this itinerant capacity the Government can point to him as a symbolic figure of good endeavour travelling around the globe but at the same time indulge in policies in Australia which in fact ignore both the symbolism and the reality of his position. It can take considerable time to give any consequence to any suggestions which he may have made. 
For these reasons the Opposition is concerned that there should be some clarity about the finality of this appointment. If at any stage subsequent to 31 December 1980 the Government continues to see value in this appointment- value which at this stage the Opposition is beginning to doubt can be seen- it will be incumbent upon the Government to amend this legislation or to introduce new legislation to cater for any further extensions of the appointment of the judge concerned. Quite apart from those observations we do not oppose the legislation insofar as it is designed to correct any possible irregularities which may have occurred in the appointment to date. To that extent it is a necessary piece of legislation. 

 -Mr President, insofar as this statement is clear in any sense, it is welcomed by the Opposition. It seems to be a reprieve after a period of prevarication and indecision, and also in a sense an adjournment of the Government's problem in relation to this matter. It has been brought before the Senate and the House of Representatives today on this occasion as a result of a number of questions and discussions which have sought to elucidate the Government's attitude on the question of oil drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. The interesting thing about the statement is that it almost protests too much. For example, there are statements like this: 
The Government's attitude and position on these issues is clear: The Government has stated repeatedly that it will not permit any drilling on the Great Barrier Reef or any mining or drilling which would damage the reef. 
Let there be no confusion on this point- no part of the reef is going to be damaged by any activity that takes place on the reef or off the reef. 
The whole issue in the last month has gone to the credibility of those sorts of statements which have been made repeatedly by Government spokesmen and contradicted by statements by other Government spokesmen, and contradicted by letters which Ministers have written one to another which show that these statements are pretty well worthless insofar as Government Ministers are concerned. Again it is repeated that the Government has no intention of permitting oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef but those statements have turned out to be pretty worthless in the past. We in the Opposition hope that they will not turn out to be worthless in the future. We would like to think that this statement resolves the issues which have been the subject of discussion in the Parliament for over a month. 
If one looks at the two views which the Government states right at the beginning of this statement, on careful reading one sees some of the dilemma which still arises. First is the statement of two commissioners,  Dr Smith  and  Mr Moroney,  that 'drilling should not be permitted on any cay, island or reef or national park or marine park when declared. ' Even this morning, when  Senator Webster  was asked whether two petroleum permits are in the marine park he said: 'I cannot answer that. Refer that to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development'. When the Minister representing the Minister for National Development was asked whether two oil lease permits are within the area of the marine park, he said, 'I will refer that to the Minister in the House of Representatives'. 
When the Minister in the House of Representatives was asked the same question this morning, he refused to answer it. So when this question was put to three Ministers today on this vital issue of what the marine park consists of, they failed to answer the question. That seems to be a very simple matter which could be answered by a Minister of the Fraser Government but, we have to rely on the sort of rhetoric in this statement which emerges from the Prime Minister's office and reasserts a number of other statements which have had absolutely no credibility about them at all; and the position is still unclear about the question of oil drilling on or near the Great Barrier Reef. 
-I know the honourable senator believes everything that the Prime Minister says, but the people of Australia do not and that is the problem that the Government has to face up to. The view of  Dr Smith  and  Mr Moroney  is expressed in these terms: 'Drilling could be permitted in certain areas, provided recommended buffer zones and safety precautions were strictly applied and supervised'. The second view which the Government adopts in this statement is the view of  Sir Gordon  Wallace, and that view is expressed in these terms:  that petroleum drilling should be postponed, and be planned and permitted only in the light, and with the aid, of full scientific knowledge of all the effects of oil pollution, direct and indirect, short and long term, on the coral and other marine life. 
The Government goes on to say that it adopts the statement of the  chairman  rather than the statement of the other two commissioners. Of course the people of Australia would like this Government to adopt the statement of the  chairman.  The people of Australia would like the question of oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef to be subject to all the considerations which are mentioned in the  chairman  's view of what should be done. But at the same time the alternative view is stated, and the Government goes on to say that consultations about this area, the area in question, are still being carried on with the Queensland Government '. 
Just a minute,  Senator. That  of course sends great floods of warmth into the heart of the average Australian who is concerned about the Great Barrier Reef, to know that the matter is still subject to consultation with the Queensland Government. If the information which we in the Opposition have is correct, the Queensland Government adopts the commissioner's view in relation to what and should happen in this area, not the chairman's view, which the Commonwealth Government adopts. 
If the honourable senator will possess her soul in patience she will see tomorrow that my view is correct, because the Queensland Government adopts one view- that is the view of the two commissioners- and the Commonwealth Government adopts the view of the  chairman  of the commissioners, which is quite different for the view of the Queensland Government. We are being told in this document that not only is the Government full of good intentions, as it has always said it was in relation to this issue, in spite of letters which proved exactly to the contrary, but also we are told that the matter is still subject to negotiations with the Queensland Government which has a separate and distinct view from that of the Commonwealth Government. 
If the honourable senator listened to the Minister's statement, he would know that the areas in question are subject to the potential jurisdiction of the Queensland Government on this matter. If that is so, I invite the Government to have a look at its performance in the area of constitutional power in relation to Aborigines, and its performance in relation to the Queensland Government on that issue. It is not a performance of which any Government in any country could be proud. In 1957 the Australian people voted overwhelmingly to give power to this Parliament in relation to Aborigines, yet this Government has been prepared, in a defacto sense to trade that power to the Queensland Government so far as Aboriginal reserves in that State are concerned. Is the Great Barrier Reef going to suffer the same sort of abdication of power and responsibility from which the Queensland Aboriginals have suffered? That is something which is not cleared up by the statement at all. 
-Senator Walters is doing much better. I am reminded of that great line from W. B. Yeates: 'I traded my life for an old bellows full of angry wind '. If I might say so, no senator should interject at length at this time of night. The performance has been exemplary in terms of staying power, but not in terms of content. We are concerned that the statement not only creates confusion and continues existing confusions, it also raises the very real problem that the Great Barrier Reef will suffer, because of a spineless government, exactly the same fate as the Aborigines in Queensland have suffered. We are not satisfied with the statement. It is just an attempt to sweep under the carpet and to adjourn a matter which has become very embarrassing to the Government because of the activities of the Opposition in this Parliament and elsewhere. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
What was the estimated cigarette consumption per person in Australia: ( a ) over 1 6 years of age, in 1977; and (b) under 16 years of age, in (i) 1970; (ii) 1975; (iii) 1976; and (iv) 1977. 
I present the following petition from 149 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments "that the lower level of inflation made twiceyearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Onceayear payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twiceyearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's statement yesterday to the effect that the Commonwealth Government has decided that there will be no further exploration for petroleum in the Great Barrier Reef region until the results of both short and long term research are known. Will the Minister give an assurance that the region as now defined under the present Act will not be reduced or altered as a result of any negotiations with the Queensland Government or for any other reason? 
-The Opposition opposes the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979. For our purposes it is sufficient to draw attention to the fact that the Bill breaks three quite specific promises previously made by the Fraser Government. It is not anything new for us to be able to point that out to Government senators, although it may be unpalatable to some of them to realise that that is the position. The first promise which has been broken is the promise made last year when the surcharge on income tax was introduced. The second promise which has been broken is the Government's unqualified promise to introduce income tax indexation. The third promise which has been broken is the Government's promise in 1976 to implement the stock valuation adjustment in full over the course of three years. Another purpose of this legislation is to fiddle with the consumer price index in the event of the Government introducing tax indexation for any part of the next financial year. 
I shall now refer in a little more detail to the three promises which I say have been broken. Firstly, I remind the Senate that in the policy speech put down by  Mr Fraser  on 2 1 November 1 977 for the 1 977 election he had this to say: 
This Government has brought in the largest and the fairest reforms ever made to Australia's tax system. Tax indexation saves every taxpayer more money each year. 
From February 1st further tax cuts will come in for every Australian wage earner. This year alone, the person on average earnings will be saving $6 a week from these two reforms. From February 1st, more than 225,000 low income earners will cease to pay any tax at all. 
The Australian people will not accept a return to high taxes. The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
-That was said by the honourable member for Wannon, the Prime Minister of Australia. Honourable senators will recall that those statements were accompanied by advertisements on television showing people brandishing fistfuls of counterfeit dollars in front of the Australian people. We were told in those advertisements that those fistfuls of phoney dollars were the savings that would be made by the average Australian taxpayer if the Fraser Government were returned to power. 
-I tend to agree with that view.  Senator Mulvihill  has put that view in his normal succinct manner. I probably would not put it in such harch terms, but I tend to agree. The Senate will also recall that in the course of that election campaign electors were invited to dial you tax cuts', that is, they were invited to telephone the Liberal Party of Australia, which would tell them what it would do for the Australian taxpayer in terms of taxation. 
Perhaps it is more appropriate now for the Australia taxpayer to dial a prayer. The 'dial your tax cuts' service was one which, honourable senators will recall- perhaps Government senators will not recall it because they cannot bear to think about these things any longer- was designed so that people could telephone the Liberal Party and be told what the Fraser Government would bring to them in taxation benefits. I wonder whether Government senators are now offering the same facility in their electorates. 
-Perhaps the people of Tasmania should dial  Senator Shirley  Walters and find out what their tax rates are to be. I hope she will offer that facility to the people of Tasmania in the next few weeks. We will then see how she gets on in the next election. That advertising campaign was accompanied by a number of other comments from the Prime Minister. On 9 August 1978 a very astute and courageous Liberal who understood that these programs were completely phoney-  Mr Dunstan,  a Minister in the Hamer Victorian Government- had certain things to say about the attitude of the Prime Minister to the economy. An article in the  Age  of that date reads: 

 Mr Dunstan also accused  Mr Fraser  of ruining the economy and the building industry. 
According to the article,  Mr Dunstan  then used a colloquial expression to describe what  Mr Fraser  had done to the economy. The article went on to say: 

 Mr Dunstan said unemployment was rising and  Mr Fraser  did not care. 

 Mr Dunstan had a better gift of prophesy than any Government senator. As reported by the  Age,  Mr Dunstan  went on to say: 
Fraser will cause a greater calamity in the next 12 months in the building industry than Gallagher has caused in the past live years. 
Over the next 12 months there'll be more Mainlines caused by  Fraser's  fiscal madness than in the whole period of the Whitlam Government. 
There we have a genuine voice of prophesy from a distinguished Liberal State politician. I now refer specifically to the income tax surcharge. It was introduced in November of last year at a rate of 2.5 per cent from 1 November 1978 to 30 June 1979, to effect a rate of 1.5 per cent for the full financial year. That surcharge is to be continued by this Bill into next financial year at an effective rate of 2.5 per cent. When the surcharge was introduced  Senator Chaney,  who is now a Minister but who was then a hard-working and diligent back bench member, childed the Opposition for its scepticism about how long the surcharge would last. I want very briefly to quote from what  Senator Chaney  had to say when the surcharge was introduced. I have not yet researched  Senator Baume  's comments about it, but I am sure that he said something similar at that time. As reported in  Hansard  of 1 1 October 1 978,  Senator Chaney  said: 
The surcharge is in fact a proof of the virtue of indexation that was promised by this Government. In other words the Government has had to go before the Australian people and say: 'On this occasion we need additional revenue. Therefore it is necessary for us to increase tax rates '. 
I emphasise the words 'on this occasion'. He went on to say: 
There has been a degree of scepticism expressed on the other side of the chamber about the period for which the surcharge or increase will apply. I can only point out to the Opposition and to the chamber that the legislation itself specifically provides that it should apply only for this year. 
That was said by  Senator Fred  Chaney. I tell honourable senators that the search for the mythical Blind Freddy is at an end. Blind Freddy is in this chamber. On that occasion he accused honourable senators on this side of the chamber of being sceptical. He said we were quite wrong in what we prophesied about the surcharge. This Bill extends the surcharge, just as  Senator Chaney  promised it would not be extended and just as we believed it would be. Possibly  Senator Chaney  is so blind about the man who leads his party and the promises made by that man that  Senator Chaney  also believes the statement made by the Prime Minister to the Parliament on 22 February 1 979 when he said: 
I believe that 1979 is the year in which the fruits of our policies will become clearly apparent, a year in which the economy will take a further step on the road to recovery. 
That is a very definitive statement of the Prime Minister. Possibly  Senator Chaney  also believes that statement. Nobody on this side of the House believes it, nobody in the electorate believes it. That is the difficulty which Government senators have in respect of the present Prime Minister and the sort of promises which have been dishonoured by this Bill. 
The tax being levied by this Bill is being levied at a flat rate rather than as a percentage. Let us look at the effect of that. An income earner whose income is between $3,900 and $16,000 a year has a base rate marginal tax of 32c in the dollar. This surcharge will raise his tax to 34.7c in the dollar, that is, a rise of eight per cent in personal income tax for a low income earner. On the other hand, a person whose taxable income is in the order of that earned by some members of this place- that is, $33,000 per annum- has a base marginal rate of 60c in the dollar, which this Bill will raise to 62.57c in the dollar. The increase for that sort of an income- in the order of $33,000 a year- is 4.3 per cent. For the low income earner it is 8 per cent; for the high income earner it is 4.3 per cent. In his policy speech on 2 1 November 1 977 the Prime Minister had this to say: 
This Government has brought in the largest and fairest reforms ever made to Australia's tax system. Tax indexation saves every taxpayer more money each year. 
Are Government senators going to tell that to low income earners, following the passing of this Bill by the Senate? Are Government senators going to talk on the hustings about the discrepancy between the increase in tax for the low income earner and the increase in tax for the high income earner? Are these matters going to be the subject of advice from Senators Walters to the electors of Tasmania when she tells them about the tax benefits this Government has brought them? I think not. 
Senators Walters- I will tell the pensioners who do not have to pay tax about - 
The honourable senator would tell the pensioners anything, but the fact of the matter is that they have to be told the truth. The second point dealt with by this legislation is the question of the suspension of tax indexation. On 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister said: 
We will fully index personal income tax for inflation over three years. 
In adopting the view that not to have income tax indexation was taxation by stealth- and we remember all the fuss that was made about thatthe Fraser Government promised to implement the recommendations of the Mathews Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation. This report was commissioned by the Labor Government. It was a report in relation to which Fraser seized on talking about the need to keep governments honest. I do not entirely dispute the integrity of the Prime Minister's argument about that. But I do dispute that this Bill introduces a further deferral of that promise in relation to tax indexation. In so saying, of course, I dispute the integrity of the Prime Minister in relation to anything that he says to the people of this country. 
The third point to which I wish to refer is that this Bill excludes from the consumer price index for the purposes of indexation of income tax, if the Government ever introduces it, the cost to the consumer of the Government's decision to allow local producers of crude oil to price an increasing percentage of their production at import parity. I understand that this is a matter which my colleagues,  Senator Walsh,  will be dealing with in great detail at a later stage of this debate. It is merely a matter to which I wish to refer at this stage. 
The Bill also introduces an exclusion different in kind from the exclusions introduced in the Income Tax (Rates) Act which were, firstly, an exclusion of all rises in the CPI due to all indirect tax and, secondly, the 3 per cent rise in the CPI in the December 1976 quarter due to changes in Medibank. The net result of the Government's fiddling with the CPI for the purposes of tax indexation, if ever it is introduced, means that the CPI will be reduced from 7.9 per cent to 6.5 per cent. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a document entitled 'Cost to Taxpayers of the Government's Broken Promises '. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906053_26_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197906053_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

That document speaks for itself, but I wanted it recorded in  Hansard  for the benefit of people who wish to make a detailed study of this matter. The fourth point relates to the changes to the stock valuation adjustment. On 27 November 1975, the Prime Minister said: 
In the next Budget we will make the first move towards adoption of the stock valuation provisions of the Mathews Report. We will introduce the report in full over three years. 
That is another abandoned promise- another promise that has gone down the spout. Fraser -I cannot use the word I have in mindprevaricated - 
-Is 'fibbed' too strong a word to use,  Mr Acting Deputy  President? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Townley)-  I think that word can be allowed. 
Over a long period of time. The Government has not maintained that promise. This legislation is clear evidence that the Government has not maintained that promise. The Government really never did carry out that promise in full. The Government introduced the adjustment only to the extent of 50 per cent and ignored the Mathews Committee recommendations. With the introduction of this legislation it has abandoned the promise altogether. 
I conclude on one final note, because the details of this legislation no doubt will be dealt with further in debate. I remind the Senate that the Prime Minister, in his address to the nation on 17 November 1975, had this to say about the Labor Government: 
The last three years have hurt many people. Those who arc worse 011 are: 
The weak and unorganised 
The poor, the retired 
The small businessman and the farmer 
The school leaver 
The family man who is paying more of his wages in tax than ever before in our history. 
Those were the words of the putative Prime Minister on 17 November 1975. They could be the words of any Australian citizen after three years of Fraser government. This Bill is evidence of that fact. The Opposition opposes the Bill most strongly. This sort of legislation has become par for the course. It is legislation which evidences the chronic inability of this Government to maintain its integrity and repute, to maintain its promises, and to proceed with the economic management of this country. Its management of the economy can be described only as incompetent. As I say, this Bill provides very keen and clear evidence of that. We oppose the Bill in the terms in which I have expressed particular remarks in relation to its various clauses. 
-On Thursday night of last week the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  brought down a statement which has been glorified with the description of 'miniBudget', and in which he stated that education programs had been more rigorously pruned than on any previous occasion. Yesterday, in the course of a debate on education matters in the Senate, I had incorporated in  Hansard  a table which showed Australian government outlays on education in current and constant 1970-71 dollars from the financial year 1 970-7 1 to the financial year 1978-79. In the course of my commenting on that table and having it incorporated in  Hansard,  I had a brief exchange with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  which I think in fairness I should record now.  Senator Chaney  interjected: 
It is not a good table. It has some errors in it. 
I said: 
Perhaps they can be drawn to my attention at a later stage. 
I must say that at this stage I am still waiting for that to happen. No doubt that opportunity will be availed of at a later point in time. The point I sought to make from the table was that, in constant dollar terms, there had been a decline in total education expenditure in the last two years. The last year shown in the table was the financial year 1 978-79. The expenditure and the cuts now announced by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  relate to the calendar year 1 980 and clearly will represent a further decline in that table if it is brought forward to include that year. 
The statement just made by the Minister for Education reveals the following simple and bald facts in relation to education expenditure: In the 1979 guidelines, expenditure on schools in Australia was up by one per cent, as indicated by the Minister at the time that that statement was brought down, after a great deal of discussion, negotiation and speculation about the level of school funding for the 1979 guidelines. In the present guidelines, expenditure on schools is down or minus 5.7 per cent. In the 1979 guidelines, expenditure on technical and further education was increased by 19 per cent and in the present guidelines it is being increased by 10.7 per cent. In relation to the colleges of advanced education and universities, expenditure in 1979 was down by 0.5 per cent and in 1980 it will be reduced by 1.35 percent. 
From those figures, it is clear that 1 980 will be a vintage year in the slide of real expenditure on education by the Fraser Government. Of course, that brings forward quite graphically the fact that, in addition to other areas of government expenditure and activity, such as health services, education is now to be a sufferer as a result of this Government's economic mismanagement. Education is now to suffer from a two-pronged squeeze: Firstly in the light of specific cuts made by the Government, as outlined in this statement, and, secondly, in relation to general purpose grants made to the States and matters which will become the subject of debate in education circles after the forthcoming Premiers Conference is held, when in our anticipation it will be made quite clear that the money available to the States for education purposes will be less than it has been in the past. We expect that there will be a quite dramatic reduction insofar as the States are concerned. 
Those matters are of importance not only because, as I said, 1980 will be a vintage year in relation to education expenditure but also because of consistent statements made by the Minister in particular over a long period as he- I say this with the greatest respect- has battled to preserve his empire in the face of overall economic mismanagement by the Government. I refer to the fact that in 1 977, in the course of the education debate, the Minister was saying things like this when speaking of the Fraser Government: 
We're the people who give more, let us make that clear . . . 
. we are giving back $ 1,050m to all the community in tax indexation. We've brought about family allowances. We've cut inflation virtually in half. We're starting to reduce interest rates and we're starting to restore an economy that was destroyed. And they're facts. 
The statement accompanying the ministerial statement which the Minister has just put down has some grandiose title. I forget precisely what it is. It is called 'The Facts of the Matter' or something of that kind. It sounds rather like the title of a book written by  Sir John  Kerr or E. G. Whitlam; it has an equally pompous title. But those are facts for 1 980, compared with the facts to which the Minister was happy to refer in 1977. Again, in 1976 the Minister was saying: 
Education has been given top priority in Fraser Government planning. That priority will be maintained. 
It was given top priority in the mini-Budget of last Thursday. There is no doubt about that. It was given top priority in the Fraser Government's planning last week and it has been singled out for special attention. The sort of special attention it has received is the sort of special attention to which I referred a minute ago when I drew attention to the order of the cuts which are now being made. The sort of top priority which the Fraser Government was giving to education in 1976 has now been totally inverted and stood on its head. The top priority which eduation is now being given is a top priority in this Government's rush to cut government expenditure programs generally. As I said, education ranks high among those expenditure cuts. Then again, in a similar discussion in 1 976, in the course of the guidelines debate, the Minister had this to say: 
In conclusion. 1 point out to honourable senators that within the context of the rigorous action it has now taken to restrain public expenditure-- 
This was in 1976, if you please; it was not the 1979 show-  thc Government has honoured its election promise to mainlain spending on essential education programs. 
The words 'essential education programs' beg a large number of questions. In the context of the present statement, it is very interesting to see what are now regarded as essential education programs and what were regarded as essential education programs in 1 976. Further, the Minister in 1 977 had this to say in the Senate about the attitude of the Government and the priority it gave to education. He said: 
Those who claim here or elsewhere that we have made cuts in Federal education expenditure are deliberately misrepresenting the situation. We have expanded education in every field. 
I suppose that the Minister cannot be held too much to blame for that statement. Perhaps it represented a little error of judgment and assessment in 1977. But what does he say about it now? Has the Government expanded education in every field? Are those people who accused it of reducing drastically expenditure in education misrepresenting the situation? The Minister went on to say: 
The simple Tact is that in terms or the quantity of funds provided in every direction, in the quality of delivery and in an understanding of the goals of education, an understanding that wc ought to get back to the basics of education, to make sure that we look at the basic skills- numeracy and literacy as well as innovation- this Government is setting a lead. It is a lead that is recognised throughout Australia. 
If the Minister could claim in 1977 that it was a lead forward, it is in 1979 a lead backward. In the course of giving specifics in this statement the Minister made a number of observations which make that position quite clear. 
I wish to make one general observation about the nature of the education debate which has taken place since this Government came to power. This observation is reflected very much in the Minister's statement which I just quoted. The 
Minister spoke about the quantity of funds provided in every direction. In 1 977 he spoke like a man with no arms who throws away money. But he more importantly went on, as he has done ever since, to talk about the quality of delivery. He said that this Government gives a lead in an understanding of the goals and the basics of education. A most extraordinary, glib smoke screen has been laid across the education debate ever since the Fraser Government came to office because there have been no new initiatives in education by the Fraser Government. The best that can be said for the Fraser Government is that in a parsimonious way it has continued programs which were introduced by the Labor Government of 1972 to 1975, that it has slowly rather than rapidly cut back on these programs. 
What has the Government done in respect of qualitative considerations in education. Whenever it gets a whiff of a breeze which it suspects suggests a qualitative change in community thinking about priorities in education all it does is to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate that matter. We have had more committees of inquiry than hot breakfasts since the Fraser Government came to power. Particularly in the field of education it has been apparent again and again on important occasions that that is the solution to any qualitative consideration in the education debate which has concerned this Government in any way. 
When one looks at the question of literacy and numeracy, which the Minister detects as something which the employer community and certain other people in the community are concerned about, one sees that a bundle of Dorothy Dix questions can be asked by Government senators, such as: 'Are you concerned, Minister, about numeracy and literacy in Australia?' He says: 'Yes, of course we are concerned and we are setting up a committee into teacher training', Of course we are concerned; We are going to have a look at what the Williams Committee is going to say about that'. 'Of course we are concerned about all those issues. ' But there has been little progress in relation to solving any of these problems in the years since the Fraser Government took office. 
I shall make some general comments about the nature of the statement which the Minister has presented. First of all, let me point out that no Tertiary Education Commission report and no Australian Schools Commission report was available this year prior to the guidelines being presented to the Parliament. In last years guidelines the Minister had this to say: 
In April I tabled volume I of the Tertiary Education Commission "s report and the report of the Schools Commission for the 1979-81 rolling triennium. At the suggestion of the commissions the Government agreed to the preparation of the reports to assist it in framing firm guidelines for 1979 and indicative planning guidelines for 1980 and 1981 under the rolling triennial procedures. 
I do not know whether or not the commissions suggested this year that they present reports before the guidelines were prepared. In any event, one suspects it would be a waste of time for the commissions to present reports before the guidelines were prepared because the Government in the past has not shown much sign of taking much notice of them. But at least in 1978 the Government was saying that those reports were prepared by the commissions to assist it in determining the guidelines for 1979. As 1 say, perhaps this year the commissions decided that it was not worth doing so. The lack of reports from the commissions has meant that the public and this Parliament have been cut off from an important source of information from expert commissions which are concerned about educational issues which are the subject of this statement. In commenting on the guidelines we are forced to rely on figures which are now a year out of date. In one respect it might be said that this shows the Government's contempt for this Parliament. We were given a copy of the statement two hours in advance of the Minister delivering it. We were not given the benefit of advice from the expert commissions on the questions with which the guidelines purport to deal. 
Secondly, by way of general observation about the statement, I want to refer to the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. The Prime Minister has said on numerous occasions that the Williams report would provide a blueprint for the future in education. Yet here we are in the middle of 1 979, the Williams Committee having been set up nearly three years ago in October 1976, and we are looking at a statement of guidelines for 1980-4 years after the Williams report was commissioned. The statement of guidelines for 1980 apparently bears no relationship at all to anything which has been said in the Williams report. One would be tempted to ask whether the Government or the inter-departmental committee has finished its consideration of the Williams report. The answer, one suspects, is no. But on 9 June last year the Minister said: 
For TAFE, the base programs Tor 1980 and 1981, will be determined by the Government alter consideration of the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. 
There is no evidence to support that contention in this statement of guidelines which has now been presented. This is another undertaking which in a sense has been dishonoured in this statement. It was said last year quite explicitly that the basis of TAFE programs would be determined in the light of the Williams Committee of Inquiry report. One might genuinely ask: To what extent did the funding decisions represent in any way a consideration of the Williams Committee report, or was that time and money wasted? How long does this Government take to deliberate on these issues about which these much vaunted inquiries have been set up? 
There are, of course, funding implications in the Williams Committee report, particularly in relation to TAFE, to training skilled tradesmen for today's jobs and to matters such as computer education which are vastly important in the context of a modern technological society which I suppose we aspire to be. Therefore I make those general observations about the circumstances in which this statement has been brought into the Senate. I have made my observations on the basis of a steady decline in levels of funding, a proliferation of inquiries on various matters, no innovations introduced, no new programs and no new initiatives announced by this Government in the area of education. 
I turn now to some specific matters which are dealt with in the statement. In relation to universities and colleges of advanced education, recurrent expenditure remains static at the figure of $ 1,103.8m for this year. The interesting argument has been floated that somehow reductions in recurrent expenditure are justified by estimates of student population at universities and colleges of advanced education in the coming year. The estimates that were made last year were not quite accurate. The student population was marginally higher than was estimated prior to the commencement of the academic year. 
Marginally higher, by about one per cent. I make no serious political point about it, I merely make the point that although there is talk of estimating student population the estimates are not necessarily entirely accurate. However the level of funding for recurrent expenditure has to be influenced by one important factor. It is estimated that in 1980 the number of pupils in secondary schools, who complete the higher school certificate, or Level 12, will represent a 13.5 per cent increase on the number of Level 12 students recorded in 1975. That is a substantial increase which bears on the amount of recurrent expenditure that is available to universities and colleges of advanced education. The important question is: What will happen to those students? Will they go on to tertiary education or not, and if they do, what sort of facilities will be available to them? I said earlier that in estimating the needs and requirements of all educational institutions we had to reply on figures a year old that had been prepared by the commissions. The Tertiary Education Commission had this to say at page 23 of Volume 2 of its 1979-81 triennium report in regard to recurrent expenditure for universities and colleges of advanced education: 
Recurrent expenditure. The annual percentage increases in recurrent grants Tor the university and advanced education sectors combined, expressed in December quarter 1977 prices, have been and, in accordance with the new guidelines, will bc as follows: . . . 
The increases were shown as ranging from 10 per cent in 1 975 to 0 per cent in 1981. The Commission said further: 
Over the period 1975 to 1979 recurrent grants have not quite kept pace with increases in student numbers: the effects of this have been exacerbated by the need to direct funds into a number of expensive major developments which were committed before 1975 ... As a result of this, together with the need for institutions to meet unavoidable cost increases not covered by supplementation (for example, movement of staff . . . institutions have been under a steady pressure to economise in the use of their funds ... By the end of the coming triennium institutions will have been obliged to economise to the extent of some 5 to 6 per cent compared with the standard of operations obtaining in 1 976. 
In another passage of the same report, the Commission has this to say: 
The Commission was therefore concerned by the Government's decision in the guidelines to reduce by $12 million the amounts proposed in Volume I for recurrent expenditure for universities and colleges in 1979; moreover, in 1980 and 1981 recurrent grants will be held at the 1979 level. In the Commission's view, the cumulative effects of this continuing tightening of recurrent funds will not only erode the quality of the work in both the universities and colleges but will inhibit innovation and the capacity of institutions to adjust to changing community needs; these effects are already becoming evident. In this context one particular area of concern to the Commission is the impact of these funding restrictions on research activities in universities. Both the Commission and the Universities Council have previously emphasised the importance of research and research training and the Commission believes the level of activity in these areas to bc particularly vulnerable to continuing restraints on recurrent funding. 
I do not know whether, out of some sort of Fraserian Pandora's Box this Government will suddenly grab an extra fistful of dollars, as it did in explaining its tax cuts in 1977, wave them around and devote them to university research. But unless it does, as the Tertiary Education Commission pointed out, the level of activity in research areas will continue to decline. That is not just a comment that has come from the Commission. It has come also from the Australian Science and Technology Council and, more importantly, from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development examiners who visited Australia. The importance of all that is that it shows, with respect, the total lack of imagination and initiative that this Government has shown concerning important areas of education expenditure. If the Government's policies were not so completely spastic- if the kneebone could perhaps occasionally connect to the thighbone- then the importance of research in tertiary institutions and indeed in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation would be recognised. Although the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is an imaginative Minister and is obsessed- 
I am sorry if I have done him a grave injustice. I meant an imaginative Minister. While he is properly concerned with the level of research activity, with its application to industrial policy and the need for this country to develop as a technologically based society, the other arm, that is the education arm, is flapping around in the breeze. No imagination is exhibited about any of these things. Nor is there apparently any real capacity to select the areas in education expenditure which are of most vital importance to the future of this country. It is quite clear, in the context of the level of recurrent expenditure that is suggested here, that there is cold comfort for research in universities and colleges of advanced education- more importantly in universities- in the foreseeable future. I make one point about this. In an article in the  Canberra Times of  18 May it is claimed by the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations that the amount allocated to each research worker in Australia dropped by 50 per cent between 1 966 and 1976. The article states: 
The present shortage of funds was the result of a fouryear, $400m cost-cutting exercise by the Federal Government. The number of Commonwealth post graduate awards had dropped by some 200 each year in the past 10 years although the number of post graduate students had increased by about 1 5 per cent. 
The article goes on to state that several independent bodies have supported these claims. They refer to the OECD, the Australian Science and Technology Council and, more recently, the Williams Report on Education, Training and Employment to which one can also add, of course, the Tertiary Education Commission. When one turns to the area of capital funding for universities and colleges of advanced education, again one is forced to rely greatly on the views of the Commission, expressed over a year ago. However, the Commission's report for 1979-81 had this to say at page 24: 
As indicated by the Universities Council and the Advanced Education Council . . . there are still substantial gaps in the capital facilities of both sectors: these will be capable of being overcome only very slowly within annual levels of funding equivalent to those available for 1979. While the Commission supports the impetus being given to capital expenditure in the TAFE sector ... it would not wish to see the capital needs of the other two sectors neglected. Unless a policy of balanced development is pursued, inevitably there will be an accumulation of capital needs in the university and college sectors to a point where large capital investments will be required, analogous to the situation which was allowed to develop in the TAFE sector and which only now is being corrected. 
The fact is that if one looks at the decline in expenditure of a capital nature in relation to universities and colleges one sees that it is dramatic and significant. It is a classic example, in terms of the TEC report for 1979-8 1 of sweeping under the carpet, as it were, the problems of today in the sure knowledge that at some time in the future some government will have to lift up the carpet and find all that mess underneath it. It is a short sighted policy which, as the TEC puts it, is not based on balanced development and will inevitably lead to an accumulation of needs in the university and college of advanced education sector. 
I turn to the question of expenditure on technical and further education. Little specific information is given in the Minister's statement regarding this matter but it is welcomed by the Opposition that recurrent expenditure has been increased, however slightly. One would have hoped that it would have been increased a little more than it has been, but nonetheless, in the context of the overall statement it is a step in the right direction, a step against the wind in favour of TAFE. So far as capital is concerned, the Government has also increased the appropriation for capital and equipment. Even on the tired figures of the past that is a most necessary and desirable item of expenditure. Again, we welcome it. Of course, we will have to wait until 1980 to understand what the Government's intentions are in relation to the TAFE sector when the thrust of the Williams Committee report, which is very much directed towards the TAFE sector, is finally deliberated on and conclusions are reached by the Government on the basis of that report. 
I wish to speak briefly on the area of schools. There has been a lot of discussion and many statements have been made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in this place about Karmel resource standards and the fact that the 
Schools Commission commented that it was likely that Karmel resource standards for schools would be reached by 1979 or 1980. The justification usually given for a decline in recurrent expenditure in relation to schools- in the context of this statement, particularly government schools- is that there is a decline in schools populations. This is seemingly very insignificant. There is a decline of 1.2 per cent in primary schools and one per cent in secondary schools. With regard to the Karmel resource standards, I think it is important to stress that they are only average standards. Whilst the majority of schools may have reached that standard, and we welcome that fact and think it desirable that that is so, there are many schools throughout Australia- probably particularly in New South Wales and Queensland- which have not reached that standard. To use that statement again and again as a justification for limiting expenditure on schools is, with respect, of the most doubtful validity. 
In relation to government schools I repeat the observation which I have just made and say that it is a source of great regret that recurrent expenditure on government school programs and expenditure in the area of disadvantaged school programs- imaginative and important programs in the quest to create a greater degree of equality of opportunity in the Australian educational system- have remained static. That is a source of bitter regret. The limited and quite insignificant increase to the migrant education program in the context of needs also is a source of regret and concern. The more important question, of course, is the significant- I hesitate to use such words as savage' because they become cliches of politics- or savage cuts which have been made in relation to government school capital programs. 
I refer to the last Schools Commission report in relation to this matter of capital and school building needs. The report states that the gap between existing stock of capital facilities and what State education authorities feel they need is very large- well beyond the capacity of the nation to fund in a short term. We appreciate that. It is not easy to fund the capital needs of Australian schools in a short term, but by putting off the orderly development of school facilities now we again are exacerbating the problems for the future. There will be a pent up demand to raise standards in schools and school buildings and equipment when the mirage-like day of the recovery of the Australian economy at last comes about. 
-1 said before that the decline in school populations, which is used as a basis for reduction in expenditure, is really only marginally significant. The government sector is just too big, with respect, for us to look at this matter across the board. There are areas of high population growth- new suburbs- where capital expenditure is required by the government school sector and the catholic sector. I hope that not much aid from this Government or any other government is given to the wealthier private schools which may want to expand into those areas. The fact of the matter is that demographic changes are taking place which make demands on capital expenditure, even in the context of a static school population. 
Prior to the Schools Commission report of April 1978, the State governments were asked to make realistic assessments of what school buildings could be built 'in the current financial climate'. Honourable senators will recall that the financial climate of 1978, admittedly was marginally better than the financial climate of 1979. The sum total of the estimates of the States for all capital requirements over a period of four years was $2,575 billion- an average of $644m each year. The Schools Commission gave these figures  in tables  published in the report in April 1978. The amounts varied, of course, but the average figure was $644m. 
In spite of the matters which have been referred to by the Minister and the matter of school populations, which was the subject of discussion by  Senator Teague  and me a minute ago, the Commission estimated that a substantial amount of the requirement for new buildings is due to new enrolments. Without being specific, I think that such enrolments occur very largely in new suburbs or developing areas. That, of course, is because of uneven growth in population and internal migration, from one place to another. The Commission went on to point out that primary enrolment will decrease by about 1.2 per cent during the triennium and secondary enrolment will decease by about one per cent- they are the figures which  Senator Teague  asked me about- but that Queensland enrolment will increase by 3.6 per cent during the decade. Likewise, migrations within States will cause demands. These matters were all dealt with in the Schools Commission report. Certain areas in New South Wales- for example, GosfordWyong were singled out as areas of rapid population increase. The Commission mentioned a 28. 1 per cent increase in that area compared with the overall level for the State which is in the order of 2 per cent. Similar analysis is given in respect of Victoria. So, the problems of internal migration of population, including students, affect very much the capital requirements of a schools system. Of course, population movements can be accommodated by sticking up portable classrooms all over the place and trundling them around from suburb to suburb. That is not a standard which either teachers or parents in Australian society are prepared to accept in 1979. 
I turn briefly to the allocations suggested in the guidelines for the non-government schools sector. General recurrent expenditure in this area will increase by some $14m. In the absence of any assistance from the statement it is very difficult to break up that figure and understand precisely what it means. I think it is fair to say firstly that approximately $10m relates to the linkage between the non-government sector and government school costs. Government school costs have risen in real terms. Non-government schools benefit from the fact that the States have put more into government schools. So about $ 10m of that increase will go across the board to non-government schools based on that linkage factor which was dealt with in detail in the guidelines published for 1979 last year. lt is regrettable that in times of economic stringency- which this statement tells us we now have- some of that money will go still to Level 1 and 2 schools in terms of the linkage. It is a sad little piece of Fraser Government symbolism that that is so in the context of the need to raise standards in poorer schools in this country to try to provide the greatest level of equality of opportunity for all children wherever they live and from whatever socio-economic circumstances and backgrounds they come. At page 9 of the statement the Minister, dealing with that issue, said: 
Within the budgetary limitations, the Government has had to defer making a further step, in 1980, in raising the minimum per capita grant for all non-government schools to 20 per cent of per pupil running costs in government schools. The automatic linking of recurrent grants to all nongovernment schools to average per pupil expenditure in government schools will nevertheless be continued. 
I suppose that it would be impertinent of me to congratulate the Minister on that part of his statement. I have absolute confidence that it is based on suggestions made to him by Opposition spokesmen in the course of the discussion of last year's guidelines. We congratulate the Government on that deferral and hope that it will be maintained while there are still massive needs in Australian Government schools and poorer schools within the non-government sector. It seems, without any break-up of the figures being available in the statement, that of the $ 1 4m some $4m will go to Level 6 schools. We applaud very much that decision by the Government insofar as we recognise those schools, particularly Catholic parochial schools, as being schools that are in the area of greatest educational need. Of course, we regard the amount as inadequate having regard to the needs of those schools. It should also be said that in the context of the overall statement and the cuts which are made in expenditure on government schools we cannot properly expect more money in this area at this time. Insofar as money is made available to the non-government sector, we welcome the fact that on this occasion the Government has made a specific direction about the Level 6 schools. 
A number of items appear under the heading of 'joint programs'. I will refer briefly to them. The suggested sum in respect of multicultural education has been significantly increased. We welcome that overall increase. The sum in respect of disadvantaged country areas has not been increased. I do not have the specific Schools Commission report before me. My recollection is that in 1977 the Schools Commission drew attention to a number of problems of chronic disadvantage in Australian rural schools. Those disadvantages were specified and itemised in terms of cultural deprivation and turnover of teachers, inability to retain teachers in towns, the relationship of teachers with the school community and things of that kind. My recollection is that the Schools Commission recommended an emergency expenditure of some $30m-odd to deal with those particular problems and to try to overcome the difficulties of significant disadvantage in Australian rural schools. We strongly support this proposal. It is a source of regret that the Government has made such a limited and parsimonious response to that suggestion of the Schools Commission which is again reflected here in these static figures. 
A number of other items have been reduced. They are bracketed together in the last item on page 13. They are very important programs which have been of significance in Australian education since the innovations following the Karmel Committee report. They fall into the area of service and development programs dealt with at page 89 of the Schools Commission report for the 1979-81 triennium. One program concerns teacher librarians and remedial and special education teachers. The programs are described as moderately long. The service and development section also refers to the program supporting a schools travel and exchange scheme between States and systems which funds 32 education centres initiated and controlled by teachers and community members. 
-No, it is not,  Senator. One  really does not get much enlightenment from the statement as far as I can see as to what those cuts mean. The statement refers to this aspecct in particular on pages 1 1 and 12. It says that 'the Commission is asked to advise' about some of those expenditures. Significant cuts are made. 
An important point about this statementquite apart from the comments which I have made about the overall impact of the Fraser Government's economic mismanagement on education- is not so much that cuts have followed in the education area from this mismanagement, not so much that in terms of recurrent programs both at school and tertiary level Australian students of one age or another will suffer as a consequence of these cuts, not so much that a backlog of demands for new buildings and capital equipment will be built into the system, as it is that it is quite silent on a number of other important issues. In the tertiary sector it is silent- as I said- on the level of research funding in Australian universities. This is a very important matter. In the schools section the statement is silent on what is to happen about disadvantaged rural schools, for example. It is silent or is confusing on a number of questions, such as the special projects to which I refer. 
In the context of the overall thrust of this statement, one must be very concerned about a number of important educational issues, about the absence of new initiatives and about the absence of any sense of direction of the education system. The education system might be encouraged towards directions which have much more relevance to the national interests of this country in the remaining years of this decade. None of those things really seem to be taken into account by this Government at any stage. It is those absences from this statement which also give very cold comfort to, for example, students who are concerned about the levels of student allowances, academics who are concerned about the levels of research and their competence to compete in the international academic community, and parents throughout this country who are properly concerned about standards in schools and the sort of educational qualifications their children will have in a society which makes increasing demands on them in terms of certification when obtaining apprenticeships and things of that kind, lt gets much harder every year for the ordinary product of Australian schools to get an apprenticeship because the standards become higher and higher and the demands on children become greater and greater. 
In a society which will depend very much for its future and its success on the level of knowledge and skill which this community and country demands, if we are to be competitive in an international sense, the response of this Government is, again, totally inadequate. If Australia is to make the grade in the international rat race it will depend very much on our capacity to be a skilled, talented and educated society, particularly so in the region of the world in which we happen to live. They are the inadequate matters in this statement. Of course, they are the inadequacies in every statement which this Government has made about education and, for that matter, about anything else. Perhaps those issues will wait for further debate in the Senate on another day. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
How many Australian hospitals: (a) currently have peer review schemes operational in all clinical areas; and ( b ) have yet to introduce comprehensive peer review systems. 
What steps has the Minister's Department or the Australian Medical Association taken to introduce a suitable peer review scheme to general practice and specialist practice outside hospitals. 
What peer review schemes will operate in private wards of public hospitals and in privately-owned clinics as a result of the Department's discussions with the Australian Medical Association. 
How will these schemes operate and how will doctors be encouraged to participate in them. 
Which of the Australian Medical Association's initiatives referred to in part (5) of the answer to Senate Question No. 562 (see  Hansard,  12 September 1978, page 502) have been approved and proceeded with. 
How much had the Minister's Department spent at 5 April, 1979 in funding the Australian Medical Association initiatives to introduce peer review, and what funds have been assigned to individual projects. 
What funds has the Department spent on the introduction of peer review in areas other than those involving the Australian Medical Association. 
I rise to support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders which has been moved by  Senator Wriedt.  There has been a lot of talk about the context in which the discussion took place last night. Unfortunately the  Hansard  is not yet available in order that we might examine that context in full. For example, my understanding of the matter - 
-Senator Walters, who is already agitated- I assume, with guilt- said in the course of the discussion last night that more than half the Opposition senators were home in bed. That is a reflection on Opposition senators of a kind far worse than that made by  Senator Keeffe  in this place. I am particularly provoked to contribute to this discussion because it does seem to me that  Senator Carrick  in his reply to  Senator Wriedt  has introduced an entirely new concept into the matter; that is, that senators in this place are subject to trial, as it were, on what he chooses to describe as 'a course of conduct'. What happened last night was that  Senator Keeffe  apparently made an allegation in this place that Government senators were asleep, or words to that effect. That was alleged to the Chair as being a reflection on Government senators. That is what happened and that is what the  Hansard  report will reveal. 
The precedent which would be established in the Senate by the motion of last night not being rescinded would be that one honourable senator can say that half the Opposition senators were home in bed and another honourable senator can be suspended for saying that Government senators were asleep. That is an extraordinary puerile reflection on a chamber of this kind if that is the precedent which is to be established. This morning  Senator Carrick  wants to rewrite the  Hansard  report. This morning he wants to say: 'No, what happened had very little to do with the allegation made by  Senator Keeffe  that Government senators were asleep. It was because we have been watching  Senator Keeffe  for a long time. He has been a naughty chap. He has followed a course of conduct which has justified his suspension'. With the greatest respect, I say that if  Senator Carrick  can point to anything in the Standing Orders in this place which says that a person can be suspended for a course of conduct judged by the Leader of the Government to be a wrong course of conduct, then he has better grounds on which to stand on than those he put up this morning. 
Of course, the reality of the matter is that  Senator Keeffe  was suspended for a particular remark in a particular context. I have pointed to the hypocrisy of the context in which the remarks were made. But in reality  Senator Carrick  is introducing into this chamber an entirely new notion, namely, that Standing Orders are to be used in a disciplinary way in relation to what  Senator Carrick  is pleased to call a 'course of conduct'. If he wants that in the Standing Orders he has power to take action in relation to it, but it is not in the Standing Orders at the moment. With the greatest respect, I say that it is a completely specious opposition to the motion moved by  Senator Wriedt. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, relates to the statement on education that was brought down last night. I ask: Of the $ 14.2m extra in recurrent funds to be provided to non-government schools, what amount will be devoted to providing an increased subsidy to Level 6 schools and what amount will be devoted to maintaining the linkage between non-government and government school costs? Further, since some of the linkage money will be going to Level 1 and Level 2 schools, is it accurate to say, as the statement does, that their grants have been maintained for 1 980? Have they not in fact been increased? 

 -Mr President, the Opposition takes the view that this Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to incorporate two specific matters: Firstly, the specific reasoning for termination of employment; and secondly, provision for a comprehensive appeal system relating to termination of employment and redeployment. This Bill relates to the Australian Public Service. Conditions of employment in the Australian Public Service in the past have been predominantly governed by provisions of the Public Service Act and the Public Service Arbitration Act. The two crucial issues to which the Bill relates are redeployment and retirement. This legislation represents a substantial change in relation to those two matters. 
I should like to put on record early in the course of my remarks the Government's previously stated attitude in relation to these questions. That attitude was reflected in correspondence dated 25 November 1977 from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Secretary of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. I refer to the provisions of that letter. On 25 November 1977, which it will be recalled, was just prior to the 1977 election, the Prime Minister replied to a letter dated 10 November 1977 from  Mr Gradwell,  as the Prime Minister put it, 'concerning the attitude of political parties to their role as potential employer of Australian Government Employees.' In the course of that letter the Prime Minister gave a certain undertaking relating to the principle of wage indexation, an undertaking he made in general terms in election promises prior to the 1975 and 1977 elections. In his letter to  Mr Gradwell  he referred to the superannuation scheme and to the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act as it was then called, which was the predecessor of this particular legislation and the legislation which dealt with the industrial stoppages, et cetera in the Public Service. On the second page of the letter he went on to deal with the question of employment levels and job security in the Australian Public Service. This was in November 1977 shortly prior to the election when, for example, the taxation cuts which all honourable senators- or perhaps I should say ' all senators ' in this context- will recall. In relation to employment levels and job security in the Australian Public Service the Prime Minister wrote:  lt has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments and this will continue. 
Secondly, he wrote: 
Overall staffing levels will be determined in the light of need. Although there may be both increases and decreases in  particular areas or administration as work loads vary, the initial process of streamlining has now been substantially completed and in general there will be stability in the service. 
The letter went on to deal with a number of other matters but, more particularly and importantly, with what it called 'Consultative Arrangements'. It should be recalled that this letter was written by the Prime Minister to the Secretary of the peak council of the Public Service organisations. It stated: 
I would be happyfor Ministers in my government to have consultations with representatives of CAGEO although these consultations should not be used to circumvent the recognised processes for consultation between the Union Movement and the Commonwealth Service which have been established over the years. 
He goes on to stress the importance of communication between the Government and the union movement so that both are able to carry out their functions effectively. I seek leave to have the letter dated 25 November 1977 from the Prime Minister to  Mr Gradwell  incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

PRIME MINISTER CANBERRA 
Dear  Mr Gradwell, 
I am writing in reply to your letter of 10 November concerning the attitude of political parties to their role as potential employer of Australian Government Employees. I shall cover each of the questions which you have posed in the order they appear in your letter. 
Wage Indexation- 
The Liberal National Country Party government will continue to support the principle of wage indexation, but we reserve the right to make submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which are in the best interests of the nation as a whole. We will of course accept the decisions of the Commission. 
As you are aware, the Commission is at present undertaking a review which is addressing itself to the indexation guidelines including the frequency of adjustments. 
Superannuation Scheme- 
The government's intention to maintain CPI annual indexation has already been announced and there is no intention of reviewing that decision. 
b) and (c) We will be prepared to discuss, and consider carefully, any reasonable proposal for changes in public service superannuation. 
Occupational Health Service- 
We have been carefully considering the report or the working party which met in 1975. We will convene an early meeting of the Peak Councils and relevant Commonwealth Departments to consider further action which should be taken. 
Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions ) Act- 
I cannot agree that this legislation discriminates against Commonwealth employees and for an explanation of the government's position I draw your attention to the Second 
Reading Speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  published in  Hansard  of 1 8 August 1977. 
Uniform Hours of work- 
The Liberal National Country Party government will continue to encourage consultation between management and unions on all matters affecting Commonwealth employees. These consultations can encompass hours of duty as well as other conditions of employment. 
Occupational Safety and Health- 
The Liberal National Country Party government supports the implementation of principles and practices to promote occupational safety. It is our wish to continue on a joint consultative basis with the union movement. After the election we propose to take up this question as a matter of priority. 
Flextime- 
I believe that 'flextime' has been a successful innovation and we are agreeable to its extension to new areas ofgovernment employment where that is practicable and appropriate. 
Annual Leave Loading- 
Commonwealth public servants already enjoy, in respect ofleave loadings, more generous provisions than the bulk of the community. Further benefits, especially in the current economic climate, would therefore be difficult to justify. 
Employment Levels and Job Security- 
It has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments and this will continue. 
and (c). Overall staffing levels will be determined in the light of need. Although there may be both increases and decreases in particular areas of administration as work loads vary, the initial process of streamlining has now been substantially completed and in general there will be stability in the service. 
Long Service Leave- 
Existing provisions for long service leave have been decided in the light of existing conditions but my government would be prepared to consider any new submission. 
Maternity and Paternity Leave- 
If examination of the operations of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act show that amendments are desirable, they will be made whether these result in increases or reductions in the level of benefits. 
Consideration will be given to extending coverage where this can be seen to be desirable and we would welcome any submissions on the matter. 
Consultative Arrangements- 
I would be happy for Ministers in my government to have consultations with representatives of CAGEO although these consultations should not be used to circumvent the recognised processes for consultation between the Union Movement and the Commonwealth Service which have been established over the years. 
I am pleased to have been given the opportunity to comment on the matters you have raised in your letter. I think it is most important that there be communication between the government and the Union Movement so that both are able to carry out their functions effectively. I look forward to a further period of cooperation for the good of the Service and the people of Australia. 
Yours sincerely, (Malcolm Fraser) 

 Mr B. Gradwell, Federal Secretary, Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, 4th Floor, 254 La Trobe Street, Melbourne 3000. 
In a subsequent letter to  Mr Smith,  also of CAGEO, which appears to be undated,  Mr Viner,  the then Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, also indulged in some discussion of the proposals to introduce redeployment and retirement legislation. Again, without referring to the letter in detail, I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard  as being indicative of the Government's attitude to this legislation early in 1 979. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

MINISTER ASSISTING THE PRIME MINISTER IN PUBLIC SERVICE MATTERS CANBERRA ACT 2600 
MINISTER FOR EMPLOYMENT AND YOUTH AFFAIRS 
Dear  Mr Smith 
Thank you for your letter of 26 January 1 979 concerning re-introduction of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. 
I appreciate your concern that staff organisations should have the fullest possible opportunity to convey their views on this legislation. However, against this should be balanced the pressing need for the rationalisation and co-ordination of provisions relating to the retirement and redeployment of staff throughout various areas of Commonwealth employment which this legislation provides. Additionally, I have received a considerable number of representations from individual public servants asking for the speedy introduction of voluntary early retirement. 
As you are aware, the Government and the Public Service Board have conducted quite extensive consultations with staff organisations since the original decision to introduce redeployment and retirement legislation in 1976. The Board informs me that your Council, together with other peak councils, was handed documents detailing proposed changes to the 1976 Bill in late November 1978. Your Council would seem to have had adequate time to consider the revised legislation and to seek the views of its affiliates. If, as I assume, the current matters concerning various grievance processes to which you refer in the last paragraph of your letter include the Joint Council Sub-Committee on Grievances, I understand that the Sub-Committee is not due to report to Joint Council until at least June this year, and in my view to await this report would unduly delay introduction of the Bill. This does not mean, of course, that appeal arrangements introduced in the Redeployment and Retirement Bill could not be reviewed in the light of decisions ultimately taken in relation to grievance processes generally. 
It is therefore my intention to proceed with the Bill on the basis of introduction, and passage if possible, during the Autumn session of Parliament. 
I should add that it is intended that the Bill will include provision for a representative of staff to be nominated, by a process to be prescribed in regulations, to sit on the appeals Tribunal. This should still allow any staff organisation views on the appeals machinery to be taken into account. 
Yours sincerely 
I. VINER 

 Mr W.J. Smith Executive Officer Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations 4th Floor 254 La Trobe Street Melbourne, Victoria 3000. 
-I refer the Senate also to a statement dated 9 August 1 977 by  Mr Viner,  the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. It is headed 'Public Service Staff Ceilings 'and reads:  . . the  Hon.  Ian Viner, MP, said today that Press reports of possible Public Service sackings arising from the recent reductions in staff ceilings were based on a misrepresentation of a letter from the Prime Minister to Ministers. The Government's policy remains that, wherever possible, wastage will be used to achieve ceilings. 
The Prime Minister was simply conforming with past practice. He had merely asked to be informed at the earliest possible time of cases where retrenchment action was being considered as a way of achieving ceilings, to avoid such action being taken without full consideration by the Government. 
Both these letters and the statement are indicative of the previously expressed attitude of the Government relating to the subject matters which are dealt with by the Bill now before the Senate. 
I said that the Opposition had two major and quite specific objections to this legislation. The Public Service in Australia has traditionally been a career service with a large degree of security of tenure. It is implicit in the statement and the letters that I referred to that at least at the stage prior to the last election it was the Prime Minister's view that that situation would continue. In our view this legislation is inadequate in two respects. Firstly, it is vague about the specifications under which employment can be terminated in the future. If this legislation is passed employment can be terminated in the Public Service. Secondly, it does not provide a comprehensive system of appeals in the event of redeployment or of employment being terminated. 
A certain level of double standards is present in this legislation. This Bill intertwines some worthwhile initiatives negotiated between the Government and the Public Service unions- I refer to conditions which the unions have been seeking for a long time, such as early retirement provisions- and other measures which are totally unacceptable to Government employees insofar as they allow the Government to sack employees  for any reason it might wish to prescribe. It also denies the right of appeal. Secondly, in our view the Government is at fault in that it prevents any degree of public scrutiny of the conditions or terms under which employees may be dismissed or redeployed. The provisions of clause 7 of the Bill seek to exclude this Parliament from taking part in any further decisions that are made as to the grounds on which public servants might be retired. In that context it raises a very nice question which has been a continual subject of rather peripheral debate in this place and elsewhere as to the roles of the Executive and of the Parliament, and whether it is appropriate for the Executive to have virtually unfettered discretion in relation to the dismissal of public servants. I say unfettered because the discretion is not described in any sense by legislation. 
The Bill also displays nothing by way of innovation in relation to the problems that dismissal of public servants might cause. There is no reasoning as to the employment pressures of computerisation which is being introduced at a rapid rate in the Public Service. That problem involves not only the Public Service but also service industries generally. The legislation also totally ignores the constructive recommendations of the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration for achieving a greater degree of efficiency within the Public Service. To that extent the legislation is of great concern to all Australians because it typifies in another way the Government's inability to comprehend the nature of problems it has to confront and contend with and its consequent inability to provide rational solutions. I will put that in another context. 
This Bill is essentially concerned with basic problems of industrial relations, an area in which the Government has the most disastrous and abysmal record of failure probably of any government in the history of this country. While it deals with a great variety of provisions relating to employment in the Public Service, its provisions, for example, do not touch in any way the suggestions made in the Department of Productivity's publication entitled  Employee Participation: A Broad View.  These things are not considered in the context of the legislation. 
I want to refer more specifically to the provisions of clause 7 of the Bill. That clause provides the grounds for redeployment and possible sacking of staff. The Opposition accepts that on the grounds of efficiency, as stated in clause 7(l)(a)(i), or invalidity, as stated in clauses 7(I)(a)(ii), it may be necessary to redeploy some members of the Public Service. However the provisions of clause 7 ( 1 ) (a) (iii) are quite repugnant to us in that they provide that an employee may be redeployed and ultimately sacked for any prescribed reason. I say that those provisions are repugnant because they are quite contrary to the whole development of industrial relations. 
While the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is moving in one direction on this question of termination of employment- and properly so because the consequences of disemployment are now so great in any industries which might in any sense be described as career industries; we must consider the consequences in terms of all sorts of benefits which flow to employees and which may be lost by disemployment- in a sense the Government is moving the other way with this legislation. In a sense this Bill represents an article of faith with the Government. The Opposition is not in any sense decrying what may be a significant factor in the motivations of the Government in terms of Public Service efficiency. It is not in any way decrying that as an objective. But it is decrying the fact that that seems to be an article of faith in this legislation- perhaps of blinkered faith- to the exclusion of what should be very important considerations for any employer dealing with any employee. 
By the provisions of clause 7 ( 1 ) (a) (iii), if the Bill is passed the Parliament is in fact saying: 'You can really leave all those questions of what are prescribed reasons for disemployment of people in what has formerly been a career service to the Executive of this country'. That is what the legislation is saying. It would be interesting to hear the voice of  Senator Wright,  formerly a member of the Senate, dealing with the provisions of clause 7 ( 1 ) (a) (iii). In many senses  Senator Wright  was a distinguished contributor to debates on this question and the question of leaving powers which should properly be prescribed by legislation to prescription by regulation. The Opposition objects very strongly to the provisions of that sub-clause of clause 7 because it leaves any government with a capacity to prescribe reasons in a most unsatisfactory way. For example, under the provision of clause 7 ( 1 ) (a) (iii), if a government wished it would be able to contract out to private enterprise whole sections of responsibility and work. If it so wished, it could allow that work to be done by private enterprise and reduce the number of public servants without review by this Parliament. 
That may be putting a hypothetical case to the Senate, but it is quite clear that that could be done under the provisions of the legislation. That is an extraordinary concept, an extraordinary matter, which could be contemplated by a government without any reference to this Parliament if that were wished by that government. The Opposition suggests that that would be an extraordinary and undesirable thing for a government to do. If one relies on the good faith of this Government in this regard, one takes an awful punt, as the Opposition has been at pains to point out in the course of other debates in this chamber in the last few days. Everybody would have to take it on trust if that particular provision were passed. Even 'Blind Freddie' would have some doubt about doing that in the context of the previous acts of faith upon which he has embarked. 
The difficulty about this provision is that it gives the Government a power essentially to emasculate the Public Service by executive decision. The Opposition is concerned about the ramifications that this Bill could have in its present form for the independence of the Australian Public Service. For example, if one talks to public servants about this legislation, I think most of them will say that most departments in the Public Service have a policy line which they run on particular issues. Persons who do not accord with the line of their department are, in a sense, at risk in relation to a number of matters, such as promotion, within the context of the department. 
The difficulty about all that is that one probably runs the risk that the Public Service will not be as fearlessly independent as, in theory at least, it is supposed to be in the advice which it gives to Government and in the impartiality of that advice. This may be just one step on the way to the political appointment of public servants. All honourable senators know that the Public Service in Australia has been absolutely fearless, highly imaginative and independent in the advice it has given to governments, but there is a threat to that situation in the provisions of this Bill. What department will be able to remain fearlessly independent if it gives advice to a government knowing that the Prime Minister of the day or the Minister of the day could direct his powers against that department under the provisions of clause 7 ( 1 ) (a) (iii)? Insofar as one adheres to the notion of a career Public Service because it produces the capacity for strong and independent advice, this Bill varies from this concept by the provisions of this clause. 
Clauses 9 and 1 5 purport to provide a system of appeals for those whose jobs are placed on the line by the redeployment and sacking powers contained in the Bill. The approach of the Government has been to window dress those problems that are too hard while pursuing a simplistic line on economic policies. One can look back at the dismembered functioning of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission, at Public Service work backlogs with reducing staffs to handle them, and at various reports commissioned by the Government- the 
Jackson, Williams, Crawford and Myers reportswhich, at least in part, were ignored or delayed by the Government and one will find that the approach of this Government has been to set up these inquiries and bodies as a sop and a front to public opinion and then to proceed to ignore them- as in the case of some of the commissionsand ultimately to render them inoperative. 
The appeal provisions in this legislation reflect something of the same mentality. There is no provision for an effective appeal system to query the decisions that heads of departments may make. To this end, one finds in clause 15 provision for appeals against redeployment decisions. The  Catch 22  situation is contained in clause 14, which provides that if a public servant is the subject of a redeployment declaration, he cannot be redeployed unless he waives his right of appeal, if instituted. That is the situation which prevents any valid right of appeal in the legislation and emasculates the provisions of clause 15. As I have indicated, this Government had some sort of record of negotiation with the Public Service unions about some of these issues, but those negotiations have not in any sense been reflected ultimately in the key provisions of this Bill. One could refer- the Opposition will be referring to this in the Committee stage of the Bill- to the provisions of clause 15, which contains another pernicious provision in relation to fellow employees of a public servant subject to an appeal. 
The Bill in its present form gives no effective appeal system against the decision to get rid of an individual employee or class of employee in the Public Service. It provides yet another disappointment for the Australian public and particularly for the Australian public servants. It really suggests a half-hearted attempt to understand essential employment and industrial relations concepts and to apply them in the Public Service. There would have been ample opportunity in the context of this Bill to go some way towards promoting the efficient operation of the Public Service in line with the recommendations in the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration- the Coombs report- or in line with a number of other suggestions which have been made by other commentators on the Australian Public Service. That opportunity has been passed by. The Opposition wants to make it quite clear that, in passing it by, the Government has really taken only some of the initiatives which were brought about largely by the Public Service organisations. In the course of putting those initiatives into legislation it has just added these two quite pernicious provisions to which I have referred. 
We make it quite clear that from our point of view there is need for legislation which would improve job efficiency and job satisfaction within the Public Service. There is need for legislation which would improve the capacity for participation and consultation within the Public Service along the lines suggested by that other arm of government endeavour, namely the Department of Productivity. This Bill does nothing to achieve any of those things. We are concerned that a statutory framework should be established concerning the rights of public servants so that a clear definition can be given on the processes for determining services for which staff are engaged, tenure or conditions of employment and the appeal processes. We would also like to see some legislative attempt to explore the ways in which staff representation could be achieved in collegiate management in departments and statutory corporations. None of these challenges are accepted by the legislation. As I said, it is another example of the Government's discredited industrial relations attitudes being applied in a slap dash way to the Australian Public Service. 
This Bill would have also provided the Government with a constructive opportunity to give a lead in solving many of the problems which confront service industry in Australia generally. The problems with computerisation and the micro-processor revolution mean that many forms of labour are becoming increasingly unattractive vis a vis computers in service industries. Government departments are no exception. This Government has imposed staff ceilings on people but it has imposed no ceiling on the introduction of computers and micro-processors in the Australian Public Service. This is another missed opportunity to bring forward what could have been an important, constructive and creative piece of Public Service legislation. We regret the absence from this Bill of the sort of things that I have mentioned; the things that might have been done in order to achieve the objective of obtaining a more efficient, constructive and contented Public Service, involved very much in the tasks which government directs it to perform. Instead of that these things are missing. We have two provisions which threaten by their vagueness and imprecision the security and careers of public servants. 
I know that it will be said that this Government has no intention of attacking the security of employment of members of the Australian Public Service. It has been said before that that is not the Government's intention. Of course, it may be that that is absolutely correct. But we are dealing with a very difficult and important subject of employment security. The record of this Government in relation to promises about what its intentions are has not really been a good one. There is no reason for speculating that in regard to the Australian Public Service the Government's intentions and its statements of intentions are any more honourable than its statements of intentions in regard to any other area. For these reasons the Opposition finds this Bill unacceptable in its present form. Accordingly I move as an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to incorporate- 
specific reasoning for termination of employment: and 
a comprehensive appeal system relating to termination of employment and redeployment. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Which state school systems have now reached the Karmel resource use targets set in 1973? In respect of those systems, has the Minister satisfied himself that there are not individual schools which have not reached the targets? What information does the Minister have as to the proportion of schools in each State which have or have not reached the targets? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) Did smoking-related diseases cost Australia $533. 6m in 1975-76 as estimated by the editorial in the  New Doctor,  No. 11, January 1979. 
What programs does the Government currently support which are exclusively devoted to: (a) combatting diseases and illness induced by tobacco consumption; and (b) persuading members of the public to stop smoking. 
What are the total costs to the Government of programs in each category above. 
Does the work of  Dr Nigel  Grey of Victoria show that 50 per cent of all smokers want to give up smoking. 
Did the tobacco industry in Australia spend $9. 8m on media promotion of smoking in 1976 and $14m in 1977. 
How much did the industry spend on media promotion in 1978. 
Which ofthe 17 recommendations related to smoking, contained in the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare-  Drug Problems in Australia-  has the Government accepted and acted upon. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. In an enthusiastic burst from Government senators at Question Time today  Senator Baume  asked a question of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and  Senator Walters  sought to ask a question on the same subject. The question related to the  AM  program yesterday morning on which I was quoted as saying: 
Current expenditure for universities and government schools has been fixed at the same amount as it was for last year. Having regard to continuing inflation that means a reduction in the current expenditure on education. 
When the Minister was asked whether that statement made by me was correct he said that it was totally incorrect. With respect to the Minister, I point out that the statement which he brought down recently indicated that the amounts fixed in real terms were the same and that in connection with any possible inflation in the relevant year the cost supplementation programs would be maintained as previously. 
The cost supplementation programs were not explained by the Minister in his statement. I want to make it quite clear that my current understanding- and indeed the understanding of the Schools Commission and the education departments in New South Wales and South Australia, for example- is as follows. The cost supplementation program applies only to wage increases or salary increases for existing staff. So if new staff are engaged by education departments, those new appointments are not covered, nor are increases in other costs, such as increases relating to equipment, travel costs for staff and the cost of relocating teachers. Of course, it is conceded that salaries are the major element in recurrent costs. That is not disputed. I make the point also that there is no cost supplementation in respect of capital programs. Any increases there are borne by the States. 
The information I have is also to the effect that, if salary increases constitute more than 65 per cent of the total cost bill of recurrent expenditure, any staff increases above 65 per cent would not be covered in that expenditure. If what I have outlined is correct- I believe it to be so and it is certainly the view of the bodies to which I referred that it is so- then the statement that inflation will affect the amounts is correct, certainly in part. I agree with the substance of the Minister's answer which relates to the major item of expenditure in cost supplementation, which is salaries. But other items are concerned and if inflation continues at a high rate I think it is true to say that effectively there has been a reduction in recurrent expenditure. 
-Clause 7 is the first clause in Part II of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 and it deals with the redeployment of employees. I move: 
Clause 7, page 5, line 1 1, leave out sub-paragraph (iii), insert the following sub-paragraph: 
for the reason that he no longer possesses the essential educational or legal qualifications for his duties'. 
The point of that amendment is to make specific something which, in the view of the Opposition, ought to be specific. We are not necessarily suggesting that the specification we have suggested is the most ideal but it does at least make specific a clause which should be specific in a provision dealing with employment and disemployment. I will illustrate that by making a general comment about the way in which this sort of thing has been dealt with in the past. Under the provisions of this clause the employees ofthe Commonwealth or a Commonwealth authority 'may be redeployed', in the words of the clause, for a variety of reasons which are set out in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph (b). As is normal, those matters are specified in legislation of this kind. 
Normally, and historically, legislation of this kind would provide the two provisions covered by sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) in relation to disemployment. Sub-paragraph (iii) would historically and normally provide for circumstances of, for example, misconduct. The point about a provision such as misconduct in legislation is that it is normally understood, in terms ofthe law, as to what that means. The common law has very clear definitions of the meaning of misconduct and it is a concept which is understood. Instead of having any specification in sub-paragraph (iii) the Government has used the expression 'for any other prescribed reason'. Of course, there are a number of things which could fall within prescribed reason'. Some of them have been suggested- things such as limited efficiency, persistent failures to meet deadlines, frequent absences and unsatisfactory level of performance. They would normally go to the definition of something such as misconduct. In any regulations which are drawn up these things are the sorts of things which we understand the Government has in mind. 
With the greatest respect, it is quite unsatisfactory to leave a statute in this form in relation to a subject matter which is so important. For that reason, we say that there should be a clear specification of the circumstances in which this clause comes into operation, and that those clear circumstances should be spelt out in subparagraph (iii) in lieu of the words 'for any other prescribed reason'. It is not only a matter of the nature of a statute and the providing of a definition of a particular subject matter and it is not only a matter of the historical legal notions regarding these matters, but it is also a matter of importance in determining, in the context of dealing with this Bill, where the Australian Public Service is going in relation to this vitally important question. If I might put it in crude political terms of expediency from the point of view of the Government, it is important for the relief of anxiety, which no Government should encourage in any section of the community if it can possibly avoid it, and certainly not amongst its own public servants. It is for those reasons that the Opposition seeks specification of the circumstances in sub-paragraph (iii). 
-The Opposition is opposed to this clause. It goes to the question of the component parts of the proposed Australian Federal Police. This matter has been dealt with in previous argument in the second reading stage and in observations made about clauses 1 and 2. 
I move: 
Page 6, clause 14, paragraph (a), lines 4-6, leave out 'and determining the respective functions of the components referred to in sub-sections 7(1) and (2 ) '. 
I have moved this amendment for the impeccable reasons which I advanced in respect of proposed amendments to clauses 6, 7 and 10. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 13, clause 37, line 30, leave out '3 months', insert ' 1 month'. 
Pages 13, clause 37, lines 31 and 32, leave out ', and not later than 4 months,'. 
These amendments are consequential upon discussions we have already had. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 38 (Retirement). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In view of the cuts of 32 per cent in Commonwealth capital funds for government schools and 19 per cent for nongovernment schools, has the Minister considered the need for new or upgraded facilities in both systems pointed out by the Schools Commission in its 1978 report? I further ask: Since the Commonwealth is virtually the sole provider of capital funds for non-government schools and has a great degree of control over the disbursement of those funds, will action be taken to ensure that limited funds go preferentially to schools of lowest resources, namely, the Level 6 schools? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
At this stage I have not had the opportunity of perusing this report in detail. It relates to the Commonwealth Teaching Service and involves an important item of Commonwealth expenditure on education. I refer to the general question of Commonwealth expenditure on education which was raised in Question Time today, when the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  gave some figures prepared by his Department. He assured me of their impartiality. I do not disagree with that for a moment. The figures which I had incorporated in  Hansard  'last Monday were prepared by the Parliamentary Library, an organisation for which I claim the same degree of impartiality. I do not question the impartiality of either set of figures; I question their accuracy. 
Whilst I appreciate the Minister's explanation of specific purpose and general purpose payments to the States, I draw the attention of the Senate to the actual Commonwealth outlays on education in specific years taken form the Budget Papers. In 1973-74 Commonwealth outlays on education were $858. 7m. In 1974-75 the outlays were almost double that figure at $1,67 1.6m. In 1975- 76, which is the relevant year in terms of the Minister's answer this morning, the outlays were $ 1,846.5m, an increase of over $170m. In 1976- 77 they were $2, 160.1m. In 1977-78 they were $2, 354. 8m. In 1978-79 they were $2,497.6m. Of course, any subsequent figure would be an estimate. The Minister gave the percentage increase for the calendar year 1977 as 3.2 per cent and for 1978 as 0.6 per cent. For 1979 the figure was nil and for 1980 he gave a decrease of 2. 1 percent. 
Its interesting to compare the figures of nil in 1979 and minus 2.1 per cent in 1980 with the figure for 1975-76, when the actual increase was in excess of $ 170m. In fairness Commonwealth outlays in 1975-76 could not be described as a decrease. The figure for that year of the Hayden Budget contracts sharply with the figures given by the Minister for 1979 and 1980. I also draw the Senate's attention to the fact that prior to the Australian Labor Party's coming to power in December 1972, Commonwealth outlays on education were abysmally low compared with Commonwealth outlays on education since. When I say 'since' I include the regimes of all parties. The enormous increase in education expenditure occurred in 1974-75. The first relevant decline, of course, appears, as the Minister pointed out, in 1 979.I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-If it is agreeable to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  I suggest that in pursuance of what he said a minute ago I might speak to clause 6 and the amendment to clause 7, which is Opposition amendment No. 2, together. 
-The amendment to clause 6 seeks to leave out paragraph (d) which contains a reference to commissioned and noncommissioned protective service officers. The amendment to clause 7 deals with the components of the proposed Australian Federal Police. These clauses related to the dual nature of the proposed police force as the Minister stated a minute ago. Let me briefly retrace some of the history of this matter. The Senate will recall that the Labor Government first proposed an amalgamation of Commonwealth police forces in 1975 on the grounds that it would increase operational efficiency. When the Australia Police Bill was brought in in 1975 it met strong opposition from the Liberal Party. It was eventually blocked. It was after the report by  Sir Robert  Mark consequent upon the Sydney Hilton bombing that the idea of amalgamation was again recommended. 
The Opposition still supports the notion of amalgamation but does not support the concept of a two-component police force. We regard it as being totally inconsistent with the aim of amalgamation. We say that the creation of what is effectively a two-class system within the police force will have a detrimental effect on morale and efficiency within the proposed Australian Federal Police. In support of that viewsometimes these things can be overstated but we do not think so in this case- the Opposition has had extensive consultations with officers of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. I am sure the government parties have also. Views have been put very strongly to us on this issue. The Association is particularly opposed to the notion of a two-component system. It is opposed because it sees the proposed new Federal Police offering a career for police officers. We are concerned that people who choose the career of a police officer receive identical training but will have to face the prospect of being relegated to what is in effect a sub-level of police force activity. As we understand the Government's intention, the protective service component will carry out duties such as guarding embassies and buildings and will not, for example, be involved in anti-terrorist operations should that question arise. These will be carried out by the ordinary members of the police force as distinct from the protective service component. 
We cannot over-emphasise the notion of people entering the police force as a career and then being stratified, as it were, in mid-stream by the provisions of this Bill which, if carried into effect will not in any way offer an incentive to the career aspect of promotion and so on which we would see as logically flowing in a force which has a single purpose and identity. The old saying that 'a policeman's lot is not a happy one' would apply to the ordinary members of the force. It is our impression that those who are on protective duties will take the view that they are not really policemen at all in the true sense of the term. 
In regard to the recommendations of  Sir Robert  Mark, I just mention that he suggested that a whole range of second-level protective functions could be carried out by civilian employees. First of all, we are critical of that notion because the development of civilian protective police forces is proliferating in most Western countries now. That really lays the ground for a whole new collection of mini-para-fascists who enjoy the same view of themselves as do parking attendants and everybody else in that category. We think that that is generally undesirable. What the Commonwealth Police Officers Association is concerned about particularly is that the Bill seems to embody a government resolve to effect that precise purpose. That is a criticism which the Government really has failed to answer in any discussion of the Bill at this stage. 
The precise purpose of dividing the force into two categories and so on. We suggest that it would be much better to have a quite unified force. When I say that I mean - 
-What I was seeking to say was that there was perhaps an interpretation of the two functions which the Government seeks to embody within the proposed Australian Federal Police, one of which  Sir Robert  Mark referred to as a civilian capacity, and that the protective services will be seen in that light as distinct from the light of ordinary policemen in the service who are career policemen in the true sense. We say quite categorically that, in the Opposition 's view, if would be better to have a unified force in which, according to age, qualification, expertise and matters of that kind which normally lead to promotion, people would perform different functions rather than our building into the force those two separate components right from the beginning. It is for that reason that I move: 
Page 3, clause 6, leave out paragraph (d). 
I move: 
Page 3, clause 8. sub-clause (2), lines 36-38. leave out Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police (however designated) of that State', insert 'Minister and the appropriate Minister of that State '. 
The effect of the amendment is at the end of subclause  (2)  to leave out the words 'Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police (however designated) of that State' and to insert the words Minister and the appropriate Minister of that State'. Clause  8 (2)  deals with the question of arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to the investigations of offences applying to Commonwealth places as they are denned under the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act  1970.  This Bill allows arrangements to be made in relation to the question of investigations of offences in and around Commonwealth places; it enables arrangements to be made between the Federal Commissioner of Police and a State commissioner of police as to how those investigations are carried out. This could be quite a substantial matter because important questions of the use of manpower and resources are involved in the decisions which have to be made regarding the investigations of those offences. That is the first concern of the Opposition. 
The second concern is that questions not only of the use of manpower and resources but also of Federal and State relations are involved in these decisions. I would have thought that the questions of Federal and State relations and that the allocation of perhaps quite significant resources should be made at ministerial level rather than at the level of consultation between the Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police and 
State Commissioners of Police, would have been a matter of concern to this Government. It is for those reasons that we suggest the change, which is quite clear on the face of it, proposed in amendment No. 3. 
I move: 
Page 7, clause 17, after sub-clause (6), add the following new sub-clause: 
The Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner may resign his office as Commissioner or as a Deputy Commissioner in writing under his hand delivered to the Minister but the resignation does not have effect until it is presented by the Minister.'. 
The terminology of the proposed amendment to clause 17 of the Bill is self-explanatory. There is no mechanism in this Bill whereby a Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner may resign his office. The Opposition regards that as an omission. We take the view that this provision should be inserted in the Bill. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 9, clause 25, line 5, leave out 'in a component'. 
Page 9, clause 25, line 8, leave out 'in a component'. 
Page 9, clause 25, line 9, leave out 'in either component'. 
Page 9, clause 25, lines 12-15, leave out paragraph (c). 
Page 9, clause 25, line 1 7, leave out 'in a component'. 
Page 9, clause 25, line 1 9, leave out' in either component '. 
Page 9, clause 25, lines 20-24, leave out sub-clause (3 ). 
Page 9, clause 25, lines 27 and 28, leave out 'or a commissioned protective service officer referred to in paragraph 6(d)'. 
Page 9, clause 25, lines 32 and 33, leave out 'or a noncommissioned protective service officer referred to in paragraph 6 (d)' 
I do so for the reasons already stated. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 9, clause 26, lines 40 and 41, leave out 'in either component'. 
Page 9, clause 26, lines 43-46, leave out paragraph (c). 
Page 10, clause 26, line 1, leave out'in a component'. 
Page 1 0, clause 26, line 3, leave out 'in either component '. 
Page 10, clause 26, lines 4-8, leave out sub-clause (2). 
Page 10, clause 26, lines 10 and 11, leave out 'or a non-commissioned '. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 27 (Special members). 
-by leave- I have stated already the reasons for these amendments. I move: 
Page 10, clause 27, line 14, leave out 'the functions of a component', insert 'its functions'. 
Page 10, clause 27, lines 17 and 18, leave out 'persons comprising the component in connection with which he is appointed', insert 'members of the Australian Federal Police'. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 28 (Undertakings and oaths or affirmations). 
-I move: 
Page 10, clause 28, lines 32 and 33, leave out 'in relation to the component whose functions he is to assist in performing'. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 29 to 31- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 32 (Minister to obtain advice). 
I move: 
Page 1 1 , clause 32, line 4 1 , at end of clause- add ', the Commissioner and the Secretaries of the Associations representing those members whose terms or conditions of service are to be affected by the determination or agreement'. 
Clause 32 in its present form provides that the Minister shall not make a determination except after obtaining the views of the Public Service Board, the Secretary to the Department of Industrial Relations and the Secretary to the Department administered by the Minister. It is conceded that those bodies which are referred to in the clause as it stands have some relevance to the making of a determination. Perhaps in the case of the Department of Industrial Relations it may be of only marginal relevance. It is considered by the Opposition that the more relevant persons concerned are the Commissioner himself and the secretaries of those associations representing the members whose terms or conditions are to be affected by the determination or agreement, namely, such a body as the Commonwealth Police Officers Association, as it now is. The reasons are simply stated in that this is a clause which deals with essentially an industrial relations matter. The making of a determination is a matter which, it would be hoped, would be arrived at by conciliation between the parties. To go ahead with this clause ignoring the association of the people directly concerned and ignoring the Commissioner who is also directly concerned is, in our view, an error. It is an error which characterises, if I may say so, the somewhat spastic activities of this Government in relation to industrial relations. We feel that it would be appropriate to include that provision in order that the most appropriate bodies and relevant persons are recognised for the purpose of this clause. 
I think that the point that the Minister made in relation to government agencies is a new point not in terms of this legislation but in terms of legislation of the Parliament generally. I do not dissent from it in any way.I understand what the Minister is saying. It probably is desirable to have a degree of consistency about that in legislation of this kind. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 33 to 35- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 36 (Selection of members for promotion). 
-Clause 36 is a very lengthy provision. In view of the time available I do not wish to read it to the Minister for his enlightenment. It provides a promotion system. The Opposition, in some ways, regards the lack of an appeals system as a serious omission from the Bill. The 1 975 legislation provided specifically for a member of the force to appeal to a promotions appeals board ifhe felt that he should have been promoted in preference to another member. This is fairly usual practice in Public Service legislation. It is considered that the right of appeal against promotions is basic to anybody working in any area of the Public Service. The present Bill provides only the criteria to be considered in promotion. Those criteria are contained in clauses 36 and 40 (c). They enable the Government to do virtually what it likes, one suspects, in relation to promotion appeals by making regulations. 
It is our understanding that the Commonwealth Police Officers Association is concerned about this matter having, I think, been used to a promotion appeals system. It is for those reasons that we will move an amendment to replace clause 36 in order to provide a system of promotion appeals. If I may refer to clause 43, there is little understanding- or undertaking- so far as we know, about what regulations could be made and whether there would be prior consultation with the Commonwealth Police Officers Association under the provisions of that clause before regulations were made. I move: 
Page 13, clause 36, leave out the clause, insert the following new clause: 
( 1 ) The promotion of a member of the Australian Federal Police to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant- 
is provisional and without increased salary pending confirmation of the promotion; and 
b ) is subject to appeal as provided by this section. 
A member of the Australian Federal Police who considers that he should have been promoted to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant in preference to the member provisionally promoted may appeal, in the manner specified in the regulations, against the provisional promotion on the grounds of superior efficiency or of equal efficiency and seniority. 
) For the purpose of this section- 
'efficiency', in relation to a member, in relation to a rank, means the possession by the member of special qualifications and aptitude for the discharge of duties of the kind to be performed by members holding that rank, together with merit, diligence and good conduct; and 
the seniority of members shall be determined as prescribed. 
The Minister may regard an appeal as having been made under this Act on a ground specified in sub-section (2) by a member who, at any time within the time prescribed for lodging an appeal, is absent from Australia on official duty or is absent from duty in prescribed circumstances and in such a case this section has effect as if an appeal on that ground had been received from the member and as if that member had been, at the date of the appeal, performing his duties in the State or Territory in which, immediately before his departure from Australia on official duty or his absence from duty in circumstances so prescribed, as the case may be, he was performing his duties. 
Upon an appeal or appeals being made against a provisional promotion, a Promotions Appeal Board shall make a full inquiry into the claims of the appellant or appellants and the claims of the member provisionally promoted and determine the appeal or appeals. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the conduct of inquiries by Promotions Appeal Boards, including provisions for a Promotions Appeal 
Board to act as a central Promotions Appeal Board to determine an appeal, or 2 or more appeals in respect of 1 promotion, in a case where all the parties to the appeal or appeals do not perform their duties in the same State or Territory after examining reports made to it by 2 or more other Promotions Appeal Boards and making such further inquiries (if any) as it thinks necessary into the claims of all the parties to the appeal or appeals. 
Where an appeal is allowed, the Minister shall cancel the provisional promotion and promote the appellant to the vacant position or to the position that is expected to become vacant, as the case may be. 
Where there are 2 or more appellants in respect of the one promotion, the appeals shall be determined by the 1 Promotions Appeal Board and that Board shall, if it considers that 2 or more appellants have established the grounds of their appeals, allow the appeal of I only of those appellants, being the appellant whom it considers to have the best claim to promotion to the vacant position or to the position that is expected to become vacant. 
Where, in respect of a provisional promotion, no appeal is duly made or an appeal has, or appeals have, been duly made but the appeal or each of the appeals has been disallowed or has become inoperative, the Minister shall confirm the provisional promotion. 
10) If, after notification has been made of a provisional promotion to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant, but before the promotion has been confirmed, the Minister is satisfied that the position is unnecessary or could be filled by the transfer of an excess officer, or that the notification or further notification of the vacancy, or expected vacancy, in the position is desirable, the Minister may cancel the provisional promotion. 
The Minister may cancel a provisional promotion in accordance with sub-section (9) whether or not there has been an appeal against the provisional promotion, and, where the Minister so cancels a provisional promotion, any appeals in respect of the promotion shall be discontinued. 
For the purposes of this section, an appeal shall be taken to become inoperative if- 
the appeal is withdrawn; 
the appellant ceases to be a member of the Australian Federal Police; or 
the appellant ceases, by reason of the confirmation of his promotion to another position or for any other reason, to be eligible for promotion to the position concerned.'. 
-I move: 
After clause 36, page 13, insert the following new clause: 36a. ( 1 ) For the purposes of this Division, the Minister shall, from time to time, arrange for the establishment of such Promotions Appeal Boards as are required. 
A Promotions Appeal Board, in relation to an appeal against a provisional promotion to a vacant position or to a position that is expected to become vacant, shall be constituted by- 
a Chairman who shall be a person appointed by the Minister to be a full-time or part-time Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards; 
a police officer nominated by the Minister for the purposes of the appeal; and 
a police officer nominated by the organisation representing police officers that is, by virtue of the regulations, the appropriate organisation in respect of the appeal. 
A Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
A Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. 
Sub-sections (3) and (4) have effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. 
Subject to sub-sections (3) and (4), a  Chairman  of Promotions Appeal Boards hold office for such period, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Minister determines. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the preservation of such rights as are specified in the regulations by a police officer who is appointed to be a full-time Chairman of Promotions Appeal Boards under this Act and for and in relation to the appointment of such a police officer to a position in the Australian Federal Police upon the termination of his appointment under this section otherwise than upon the ground of his misconduct or after his having attained the age for retirement from the Australian Federal Police. 
Decisions of a Promotions Appeal Board need not be unanimous but may be decided according to the decision of the majority. '. 
Proposed clause 36A provides for the establishment of the Promotions Appeal Board. I rely essentially on the comments which I made to the previously proposed amendment to clause 36. 
-I move: 
Page 13, clause 38, line 42, leave out 'If a member', insert  If, on the basis of a medical report, a member'. 
That amendment is again consequential upon previous discussions. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 39 (Retrenchment). 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 March 1 979: 
Can students who hold teaching qualifications and who wish to undertake a tertiary course qualify for assistance under current regulations governing the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme; if so, has this always been the case; if not, when were the regulations changed and why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Do the respective medical services of the Army, Navy, and Air Force conduct surveys amongst defence personnel, designed to detect alcoholism, drug addiction or associated problems; if so, what have been the result of such surveys; if not, what was the incidence of (a) alcoholism; and (b) drug addiction, detected by Medical officers of the Army, Navy and Air Force during each year from 1 965 to 1 978. 
What program has (a) the Department of Defence, or (b) individual arms of the services, instituted to deal with problems such as alcoholism and drug addiction. 
How many (a) officers; and (b) servicemen, in each of the three armed services have been (i) taken off active duty; (ii) discharged (iii) hospitalized and rehabilitated; or (iv) otherwise treated, because of alcoholism or drug addiction, in each year from 1965 to 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
What indicators exist by which the Government can study the impact of the investment allowance on investment, employment and output, both at a macroeconomic and a microeconomic level. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
Did the Prime Minister, during his attendance in May 1 979 at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Manila, call for a lowering of trade barriers between developed and developing countries; if so, what steps is the Government taking to implement that view in relation to tariff policy. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
How many students have been prosecuted during 1979 in each State for failing to notify discontinuance of study, as required under Regulation 85 ( I ) (a) of the Student Assistance Regulations 1974, made under the Student Assistance Act 1973. 
What role does the Commonwealth Police Force play in gathering information prior to prosecution. 
What information does the Department of Education supply to the Commonwealth Police on students during the course of such investigation. 
On what criteria, on whose authority, and on what basis, are these prosecutions conducted. 
Have such prosecutions been conducted only in Victoria; if so, why. 
I direct my question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer the Minister to statements repeated by Government Ministers over the last three years which have consistently maintained that increases in wages have been a central cause of inflation. I also refer the Minister to a statement reported in the  Austraiian  on Saturday and attributed to the Prime Minister which states: 
Wages have been in a sense neutral in terms of their effect on inflation. 
I ask: Is this latest view the Government's view? Is it now the Prime Minister's view? If so, has the Government any idea what this man will say next? 
-There are four Bills in this package relating to the Northern Territory Supreme Court or, rather, to the Northern Territory. I think that at this stage I had better put it no higher than that. 
-I think that  Senator Robertson  is already showing an interest in his bailiwick. In indicating briefly what the four Bills do, I make a fairly redundant speech, I think, because the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has already done that. The first of the Bills, the Northern Territory Supreme Court (Repeal) Bill 1979, repeals the Northern Territory Supreme Court Act of 1961-68 in order that the 1979 Act may come into effect on a day to be proclaimed. There is in the Bill a number of transitional provisions in relation to appeal proceedings, pending before the High Court and the Federal Court of Australia, from decisions of the old Supreme Court. These preserve that right of appeal. Under clause 6, the repeal provisions will not affect the appointment of judges to the Federal Court of Australia where such appointments have been made before the commencing date. There are a number of other transitional provisions in that Bill. 
The Bill to amend the Judiciary Act 1973 provides, by clause 3, that section 67b of the principal - 

 An incident having occurred in the chamber- 

-The substance of the High Court Justices (Long Leave Payments) Bill 1979 and the Judges (Long Leave Payments) Bill 1979 has been dealt with by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in the second reading speech. I only want to make some very brief comments about these Bills and to move an amendment to the second reading stage of the Bills. These Bills remedy a situation that was discovered in a Senate Estimates committee as far back as April 1 977 when those three outstandingly diligent senators, Senators Wright, James McClelland and Wheeldon, in the course of their duties on an Estimates committee, raised questions about the capacity of the Government to make long service leave payments to Federal judges. Honourable senators will recall these questions being raised at the time. It appeared that the payments, which were in the form of a gratuity, were made by virtue of a convention that one suspects the High Court had established for itself. Under that convention the judges got a pot of gold at the end of the judicial rainbow which was provided for by the Government. As I understand it, the amount was essentially determined by the judges themselves. 
The three honourable senators to whom I referred raised questions as to the validity and desirability of payments being made in this way to judges. This legislation reflects the view that the Government now considers that it is more appropriate for these payments to be legislated for as, of course, other long service leave payments in respect of ordinary people are legislated for. It has taken a very long time for the AttorneyGeneral to bring these Bills to the Senate consequent upon that Estimates committee of April 1 977. One makes no further comment about that. We welcome them as necessary legislation and do not dispute that long service leave payments forjudges should be legislated for. 
However, there are a couple of matters in the Bills which we regard as unsatisfactory. The first relates to the arrangements for payment of long service leave to judges. These Bills provide for no pro rata payment of long service leave in the event of a judge leaving the bench prior to 10 years of service being completed. The Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976, which deals with other Commonwealth employees, provides for a pro rata payment in respect of termination of service before the expiration of 10 years. 
It is important to remember that a number of desirable points should be taken into account in considering the whole question of payment of long service leave, and that it is important in any legislation which comes before this Parliament that there should be a consistency of approach about the payment of long service leave entitlement. I say that because with the consequences of the greater incursions into the working lives of most people in the community which I believe are likely to follow from technological change, and the consequences of what is sometimes termed in the jargon the post-industrial society, more and more as a legislature, we will have to examine the provisions pertaining to the formal provision of periods of leisure in the course of people's working lives. 
It is desirable that we develop some consistency in the principles which apply and see that as far as possible key principles apply across the board and apply to judges as well as everybody else. I believe we have to be diligent in considering such questions as the desirability of portability of long service leave entitlement and perhaps as time goes by long service leave entitlement accruing after much shorter periods and being made available to people in part time employment. We must consider also the important question of pro rata payments to people whose employment is terminated prior to the expiration of the period in respect of which they are eligible for full long service leave entitlements 
In the course of discussing this legislation I wish to draw attention to the fact that there are quite disgracefully discriminatory provisions in long service leave legislation throughout Australia. I am not referring only to Commonwealth legislation but also, more particularly, to State legislation, which I would think covers the vast majority of employees for long service leave entitlement. In that context it is important that the Australian Government should set the pace in terms of setting uniform, and perhaps better, standards for long service leave. 
Let us look at the sorts of situations which arise when long service leave is not payable on a pro rata basis prior to a lengthy period of employment. Anyone who is experienced in law or industrial relations will be familiar with numerous cases of companies which, if long service leave is provided for after 10 years, adopting the practice of examining their staffing situation and getting rid of people at the expiration of about nine and a half years service. There is some point in looking at the desirability of introducing pro rata payments on a wider basis to try to stop that practice. It is a principle which should be enshrined in all long service leave legislation. 
Similarly, employees who have been with a company for a long time but who have served for less time than the period needed to accrue absolute rights to payment of long service leave often feel themselves financially bound to remain with the one employer for fear of forfeiting those rights to long service leave entitlements. It is not only bad for an employee who remains in a work situation unhappily because financial reasons dictate that he should do so but arguably it is also bad for the economy generally in terms of the prevention of natural mobility of labour and natural choice of career and job. That is an issue which will become more and more important as society becomes increasingly technologically committed in terms of changing skills and things of that kind which will affect people's desire for mobility in employment. 
I raise those general issues only because I think it is important that general principles should be considered when one is talking about any legislative vehicle dealing with long service leave. I know people such as the Attorney-General hang on my every word and, if those issues are not particularly relevant to this legislation the next time long service leave legislation is introduced these sorts of matters will undoubtedly be taken into account. The problems which flow from the inflexibility of long service leave legislation throughout Australia are compounded by the worse problem with superannuation in Australia. It is not really a problem with judges but it is a problem with most employees. That problem is well illustrated by companies which, through private trust deeds governing the administration of superannuation funds, effectively bind employees for a lifetime in much the same way as I have just suggested in relation to long service leave entitlement. 
A second specific objection to this legislation is that under it judges will be accredited with 36 days of long service leave per year of service, whilst under the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act Commonwealth employees are entitled to a mere three-tenths of a month per year of service, which works out at approximately nine days per year of service. So there is a long service leave entitlement of nine days per year of service for Commonwealth employees generally and 36 days per year of service forjudges. I am not arguing for an increase in the entitlement of Commonwealth public servants in respect of that matter; I am not arguing necessarily for a decrease in respect of judges. I am arguing for some degree of uniformity in the entitlements because, after all, the judges' salaries, which of course are enormous, are presumably assessed on the basis of all the disabilities which attach to their most onerous profession. Their long service leave entitlement in terms of money reflects the onerous nature of their work long after they have, as it were, transcended the bench and entered another sphere of life on, indeed, a sphere of death, in which case the benefits flow to the widow. It is very difficult to establish what is the basis for the discrepancy for judges and other people in this legislation. Perhaps the Attorney can tell honourable senators something about that. I would have thought that the differences were most adequately compensated for in terms of judicial salaries. 
I would never suggest that but I am grateful for the phrase that the honourable senator has used, because it is something about which we ought to think. The point I seek to make is about the ludicrous discrepancy, for which I do not think there is any justification, except that perhaps judges have a bit of clout with Government because of their robes and things which seem to make them more important than anybody else. As I have said, the Opposition has two objections to the legislation. For that reason I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert:- these Bills be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for pro rata long leave entitlements to judges on the same basis as long service leave entitlements to Commonwealth employees under the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976'. 
I have moved this amendment not out of any desire to denigrate the high office of judges or necessarily to increase Commonwealth employee entitlements, but out of a desire that this 
Parliament look towards establishing some principles of uniformity which will seem to have a rational base in relation to long service leave entitlements for all Australians when we come to legislate on those issues. They are increasingly important issues in terms of the changing pattern of work life in Australia. For that reason I commend the second reading amendment to the Senate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
Did the Minister say, on 29 March 1979, that there was a responsibility on the Commonwealth and State Governments to pay more attention to and allocate more money for family planning. 
What funds have been allocated by the Commonwealth Government for the purpose of family planning education and training in each year since 1 972. 
How many family planning clinics currently operate, (a) in each State and Territory; and (b) in Australia as a whole. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the Great Barrier Reef region, as defined under the present Act, will not be reduced or altered as a result of any negotiations with Queensland or for any other reason, in view of the fact that the Prime Minister said on 4 June 1 979 that the Commonwealth Government has decided that there will be no further exploration for petroleum in the Great Barrier Reef region until the results of both short and longer term research are known. 
-I raise one brief matter which I do not think will invite a reply from the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack).  With respect,  Senator Chipp  made a very good point about the second sentence of the Opposition's amendment. I understand that the Opposition's amendment will be rejected for a variety of reasons, but I would hate it to be rejected on the basis of what might be described as some imprecision of drafting in the second sentence. The word 'details' as it is used in the second sentence is intended to relate to the sorts of matters to which  Senator Evans  referred and which were put forward by the New South Wales Privacy Commission. I record that in  Hansard  to acknowledge that we follow  Senator Chipp  's point. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I move: 
Page 15, clause 20, sub-clause (5), line 32, leave out '6 months ', insert ' 30 days '. 
The provision of amendment No. 10 provides for reducing the time in respect of which a warrant will be valid. In the context of clause 20, the time proposed is 30 days, not 6 months. That is different from the 90 days which was proposed in an earlier clause. The same reasons apply why the time in respect of which a warrant should be valid has been reduced. 
-I made the point I wished to make. 
I move: 
Page IS, clause 20, sub-clause (2), lines 18 and 19, leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clause: 
A Judge of the Federal Court of Australia may grant a warrant under sub-section ( I ) in respect of a telecommunications service situated anywhere in Australia but a judge of a State Supreme Court or of the Australian Capital Territory or Northern Territory Supreme Court shall grant warrants under sub-section ( I ) only in respect of a telecommunications service situated in the State or Territory of which he is a Judge. '. 
This amendment provides for a limitation upon the circumstances under which State judges or judges of the Supreme Courts of the Territories may issue warrants. The legislation as it stands gives full capacity to Federal judges to issue warrants under any circumstances. The Opposition feels that there should be some limitation on that capacity in relation to State judges and Territory judges. The limitation should be that these judges are limited in their jurisdiction of their own bailiwicks. If I could put it another way, there may be some judge of the Supreme Court of Queensland or Western Australia who has an obsessional interest in issuing warrants and it will become the practice of customs officers to go to that particular judge if this legislation remains as it is. 
-The Opposition proposes three amendments, Nos 7, 8 and 9 to clause 20. 
It might be better if they were taken separately. Accordingly, I move: 
Page 14, clause 20, sub-clause ( 1), line 34, leave out 'information on oath ', insert 'affidavit '. 
The amendment seeks to ensure that the information upon which a warrant shall be issued shall be in written rather than oral form. The reasons are fairly obvious. It is an important matter which should require that an officer apply his mind to putting down on paper the reasons for the warrant. That would not be, in our view, a particularly onerous task. Nevertheless it is important in terms of the overall significance of the issuance of a warrant in this way. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his unfortunate capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer him to  Mr Street's  speech to the Australian Institute of Management on 15 May 1979 when he said, consistently with statements repeatedly made by other Ministers, that real wage increases outside the indexation guidelines, through privately negotiated award increases, were threatening Australia's prospects for economic recovery. I refer the Minister also to a statement, attributed to the Prime Minister in the Australian on 1 8 August, in which he said: 
There's been very little wage drift outside the Commission's determinations, much less than I think most people would believe. 
I ask the Minister which of these two Ministers is correct. Was the Government labouring under a total delusion until 18 August when the Prime Minister made his latest announcement on this matter, or is it again that he will say anything in a desperate attempt to court popularity? 
-Yes, it is. 
-Oh, come on! 
-Come on! The fact is that the Department is now bringing, for example, Chileans to Melbourne and those people just cannot get jobs. That is all being done in an effort to fill the quota. The point I wish to make about these sorts of inconsistent statements in relation to the report is that two very soft views emerge from the two Ministers' statements. One is that we will poach on Europe and pinch their tradesmen, probably in some cases recipients of superior training. At the same time, another Minister is admonishing employers, advising them to employ more apprentices. Such statements, both of which may have validity but which are inconsistent, are still a sad reflection on how the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, headed by Professor Williams, saw the same issues, as outlined in that Committee's report. It is clear that neither of those Ministers has taken into account what the Williams committee stated about this subject. The report of that committee set out in some detail the training options available to Australians to develop more skilled manpower and work force in this country. 
I record some of the facts which flow from that situation. Firstly, there is a widely held belief that there is a shortfall of skilled tradesmen and new tradesmen in this country, which is estimated by the National Training Council to be 18,000 people a year. The Williams committee throws total doubt on that figure. It stated that the figures need to be analysed carefully and that they cannot automatically be used as a basis for national planning as, for example,  Mr MacKellar  suggested in his statement. During a time of record youth unemployment, there has been a five per cent decrease this year in apprentice intakes. That is this year; I am not talking about what will flow from the Budget. We hope that some good results in relation to apprenticeships will flow from the assistance given in the Budget to the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme. In spite of that decline in the number of apprenticeships available, in Victoria last year the ratio of applicants seeking apprenticeships in the major trades to vacancies was 57:1. In other words, 57 kids were seeking apprenticeships in the skilled trades for every job available. An added problem, of course, is that even if we wanted to train apprentices in a different way, for example, in the technical and further education sector, TAFE has not the resources to do that at the present time. 
One could go on and on making these points about inconsistencies in the Government's attitude, about confusion in the Government's policy, about manpower planning and about training. But at the height of all this confusion, as if dramatically to emphasise the point, the Government tabled in the Senate today a document entitled 'The Training of Skilled Workers in Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and the Philippines', which is a report of an Australian mission to study the training of skilled workers in the metal and electrical trades. No doubt these trips are beaut for the people who go on them and no doubt a lot of very valuable information is contained in the report. But the Government can table reports until it is black and blue in the face. It can pigeonhole them. It can send missions everywhere around the world. But if it is not prepared to make logical and consistent decisions about the implications of those reports and the problems to which those reports are directed it is wasting the money of Australian taxpayers and the time of this Parliament. It is in that context that, whilst we welcome the report for its intrinsic merits, we see that its tabling in the Senate should be set in the context of the Government's overall policies.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I move: 
Page 2, clause5, sub-clause ( 1 ), lines 24 and 25 leave out the definition of 'narcotics offence', insert ' "narcotics offence" means an offence against sub-section (4) of section SO or sub-section (2b) of section 1 12 or sub-section ( 1 ) of section 23 1 or section 233a or paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (cb) or (d) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 233b and which offence involves a quantity of a narcotic substance that is not less than the trafficable quantity applicable to the substance and is punishable under sub-section ( 1) or (2) of section 235 of the Customs Act 190 1, as amended by the Customs Amendment Act 1979.'. 
Might I begin by pointing out that earlier in this debate some reference was made to the estimated number of marihuana smokers and users in Australia. For the record might I correct any misinterpretation which arose on the Government side of the chamber. I think that there is universal disagreement that the estimated number of regular marihuana smokers in Australia is 400,000 and the estimated number of people in Australia who have used marihuana on a casual or intermittent basis is two million. I am supported in that view by the very explicit statement of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, which on page 129 of its report stated 'There is no agreement on the extent of cannabis used in Australia', and then went on for several pages to explain why. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition is somewhat difficult to follow in terms of the legislation itself. I think I should perhaps explain it in this way. It relates to the definition of'narcotics offence'. Those who are familiar with the Customs Act and with the Schedule to it will appreciate that it includes a number of substances which for the purpose of this legislation are defined as narcotics. 
Which are not narcotics, as  Senator Chipp,  who is giving us some helpful advice on pharmaceutical matters, points out. 
-Thank you. It includes substances such as codeine and cannabis, which I understand are not narcotics. Clause 20 of the Bill expresses the circumstances in which warrants might be issued in the following terms: 
Where . . . there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the telecommunications service is being, or is likely to be, used by a person who has committed, or is suspected on reasonable grounds of having committed, or of being likely to commit, a narcotics offence; 
To summarise the point insofar as I have made it to this stage, under this legislation the telephone of a person can be tapped if that person is suspected or may be suspected of having committed a narcotics offence. A narcotics offence under this legislation in terms of the definition of narcotics can include offences relating to cannabis pot, as it is more commonly known or codeine, for example. Section 235 of the Customs Act, which is to be amended, defines a narcotics offence. Offences which are punishable under section 235 can be grouped into three classes. The first class comprises a whole range of offences which can be broadly summarised as offences relating to the smuggling of narcotics, the importing of narcotics in breach of the terms of a licence providing for the importation of narcotics, being in possession of narcotics on board a ship without reasonable excuse, the importing or attempting to import narcotic goods without a licence and assisting a person who is trying to import narcotic goods. All those sorts of offences are lumped together as offences of one class which are covered under the definition of a narcotics offence. The first class relates in the crudest form to the pot smuggler, if we may put it that way. 
The second class of offence relates to persons who have in their possession narcotics which are reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia. If one has whatever quantity of marihuana or cannabis in one's possession - 
-Thank you. If anybody has in his possession even a joint which is reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia, he commits an offence under this section just the same as the fellow who is the smuggler of joints, to use the term of  Senator Walters,  who seems to be more familiar with it than I am. 
Thank you. A person who has in his possession a joint which is suspected of having been imported into Australia is covered by this section just as the person who is a smuggler of cannabis or anything else into Australia is covered by the section. 
The third category of person covered by the section is a person who, on demand from a Customs officer, fails to disclose any knowledge which he may have concerning the importation, whether actual or intended, of any narcotic goods. Three classes of offence are created under the definition of 'narcotics offence'. The first class of offence concerns the smuggler. We will characterise him as that. The second class of offence concerns the user of marihuana or codeine who is suspected of having obtained it from an imported source. The third class of offence created by the section relates to the person who, on demand from a Customs officer, refuses to disclose information which is believed to be in his possession. 
Under this legislation, as it now stands, in respect of each of those classes of offences a warrant can be obtained to tap the telephone or intercept the telecommunications service of that person. This legislation is a steam-roller to crack a nut. It is a dragnet piece of legislation which, if we have regard to appropriate principles of civil liberties, should be confined properly to persons who are in the clearly criminal category of smugglers or illegal importers of drugs- people of that kind. In a country such as this there should not be a law whereby a person can have his telephone tapped because he is smoking a joint which a Customs officer or other bunny suspects has been imported. The fact that a Customs officer thinks he knows something about the importation or exportation of a joint of marihuana or a couple of bits of codeine should not be a circumstance which allows a person to have his telephone tapped. The second two categories of offences should not make people's telecommunications services subject to interception. 
Returning to the figures, there are two million people in this country suspected of having used marihuana, 400,000 regular users and God knows how many users of coedine in one form or another, if one wants to take the absurd extreme example. But when we are looking at legislation of this kind we have to take the absurd extreme example to illustrate the breadth of the issue, to illustrate the fact that, if one has regard to questions of civil liberties, this is a draconian piece of legislation which should not be on the books of a parliament such as this. It is for that reason that this, the first, amendment was moved by the Opposition. 
I go back to say that what we are concerned to protect is the position of people who may be smoking marihuana or the like or who may be taking coedine in each case it might have been imported- or the person who refuses, in the view of a Customs officer, to provide information which the Customs officer believes that person has. We are seeking to protect the position of those people. They should not have their telecommunications service tapped on the basis of a warrant which can be issued, again on reasonable grounds, of it being suspected that their telephone is being used, or might be used, or has the possibility of being used in relation to a narcotics offence. Of course, it is the definition of a 'narcotics offence' which is reprehensible in these circumstances. 
Earlier this evening in the course of the second reading debate  Senator Lewis  and others said: Look, we have to understand this amendment before we can vote intelligently on it'. I am sad to relate that  Senator Lewis  is not in the chamber any longer, unless he has slipped under the bench or somewhere. But the fact is that Government senators really should strive to understand the purposes of this amendment because it is very important. If 1 might be so blasphemous as to use the biblical injunction, I do not want it ever to be said of any Government senator in relation to this matter: 'Forgive them for they know not what they do'. They ought to know what they do in respect of this aspect of the legislation. They ought to support the amendment for the reasons I have set out. I strongly commend it to the consideration of the Committee. 
I rise on one brief point only, because I think the Attorney-General, in seeking to defend the legislation as it now stands, used an argument which was totally beneath him. In exercising what he thinks is some sort of macho-spunky politics, he challenges the Opposition to say where it stands on the issue of criminality in relation to drug use. He sees that as being referable to the subject of this debate. That is a completely dishonest argument, with the greatest respect. 
As a member of the Opposition, all I have to say on that issue is that I do not regard the using of cannabis on odd occasions as being in the same category of offence as, for example, treason, smuggling and terrorism, which are other activities in respect of which phone tapping will be allowed, and that is where I stand for the purposes of this legislation. If the AttorneyGeneral would tell us, for example, why the offence of smoking the odd quantities of cannabis is more reprehensible than murder, which is not prescribed by any Federal legislation as a matter in respect of which one can have one's phone tapped, then the argument would have some sense about it. But it is an absolutely nonsense argument in the way in which he puts it. 
Consideration interrupted. 
-The Senate is dealing with the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979. Because this matter has been canvassed to some degree in the Senate already, I seek to make only a brief contribution in the course of the second reading debate. Many of the issues which are dealt with by this legislation in a sense are interwoven with the essential issues of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation which was debated by the Senate earlier this year. The legislation now before the Senate is in a somewhat different form from the legislation which was introduced earlier under a similar name. In the second reading speech the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  who introduced this Bill described the differences as being in the following terms: 
The changes from the replaced Bill concern the procedures for granting interception warrants Tor narcotic inquiry purposes. 
He went on to say that they are consistent with the amendments to the Customs Act to be moved by the Government in another place. Later in that speech  Senator Carrick  referred to the fact that the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security commended that ASIO's powers of interception should be extended to interception of information passing over all telecommunications systems and this Bill so provides. 
The alterations to this Bill go part of the way to meeting some objections which the Opposition raised in the early stages of the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation. Those objections were raised in relation to what are basically civil liberty issues. The changes which have now been made by the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill are a result of decisions taken by a legislation committee of the House of Representatives which was inquiring into customs legislation.  Sir William  McMahon and other civil libertarians joined with the Opposition in voting on the legislation in a way which resulted in the changes which have now been made. 
-Yes, it is indeed. The previous Bill was withdrawn and amended. The new Bill provides that warrants relating essentially to the bugging of premises and so on cannot be issued by the Attorney-General but only by a judge of the Federal Court or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. 
In the view of the Opposition, the present legislation is an improvement but the Opposition will still move a number of amendments in the Committee stage to improve it further. This whole legislation relating to the snoop organisations has in a sense been a running battle between two viewpoints. One viewpoint takes the strange sort of Len Deighton view of the world that security organisations should be as secret as they possibly can and should be subject to as little public accountability as can be got away with, and things of that kind. The other view requires that they be treated as openly in terms of public accountability and so on as it is possible for them to be. An editorial in the  Age  newspaper set up that dilemma a couple of years ago. The  Age  had this to say: 
The case made for strengthening Australia's internal security is convincing enough, but this does not mean that the sensitive area of civil liberties and individual rights can in any way be ignored. Far from it. This is the continuing dilemma in any democracy. There must be a recognizable system of accountability- 
And so it goes on. 
That is in essence what the Opposition amendments are about. This is correctly stated as the continuing dilemma of any democracy. The amendments which the Opposition will be moving to this legislation, as with the amendments to the ASIO legislation, will be designed to entrench more deeply in this legislation a concern for the protection of individual civil liberties. 
I said that this legislation relates to the interception of telecommunications systems. It is arguable that this has to be done to protect security and to detect crimes relating, for example, to narcotics. We only add the qualification to that view that dangers are inherent at any stage in the extension of the power to authorise phone tapping, bugging or anything of that kind. I shall quote from Paragraph 221 of the report of the Law Reform Commission on Criminal Investigation simply to illustrate some important points regarding this matter. The Commission stated: 
Listening devices lend themselves to a far greater invasion of privacy. Persons cannot ensure their security and privacy by resort to private places beyond the reach of the hearing or vision of human eavesdroppers (even if equipped with ocular aids). The insecurity of a society devoid of the opportunity of private communication has only to be stated to be guarded against. Another consideration is that listening devices in operation inevitably record many conversations which should be excluded, either because they impinge upon some privileged communication, e.g. between a suspect and his lawyer or doctor, or perhaps even more importantly because they are of no relevance whatever to the suspected offence in question. What most distinguishes electronic surveillance from ordinary search and seizure for physical objects is that electronic surveillance tends by its very nature to be exploratory, unselective and indiscriminate. In effect it involves a type of general search warrant. This is particularly so given the lengthy period of operation for 'searches' by listening devices usually contemplated by their proponents. One hundred and seven authorised phone 'taps' in a year does not seem much of a price to pay for national security, but when one considers the number of conversations, and conversationalists, that may be involved the issue is more grimly posed. 
Yes, that is correct. In a letter to the Attorney-General dated 17 February last year the Victorian Council of Civil Liberties stated: 
The  VCCL  believes phone tapping should continue to be confined to cases of national security. If it is extended to drug detection it is likely to get out of hand, lead to abuses of power along the lines experienced in America, have little, if any effect on crime detection, inhibit freedom of communication by law abiding citizens and be gradually extended to areas of crime detection. 
Bodies which in a sense are professionally and legitimately concerned with these matters have expressed these concerns. The point made by the Law Reform Commission about the area of private phone conversations which telephonic surveillance can get into- indiscriminate phone tapping and things of that kind- is indeed quite horrifying. We all use the telephone a lot. Today I found that I could not use a telephone at a certain establishment as it was not working. It was a source of great horror for me to be unable to use it. That experience indicates the degree to which we do use the telephone. In a country such as this we should insist on the fundamental liberty of being able use the telephone freely without fear of someone eavesdropping. These matters go to the heart of the issues involved in this legislation. They are the concerns of the Opposition. Insofar as it is possible to correct the situation by amendments to this legislation we shall do so in the Committee stage. 
The first amendment which will be moved by the Opposition at a later stage concerns the application of interference with telecommunications in relation to narcotic offences. In the course of my remarks at the second reading stage, I want to indicate the area of concern which we have in regard to this matter. The Senate is aware that, according to reliable estimates made by various bodies, there are some two million marihuana users in Australia. I do not refer to permanent users but to people who are in the habit from time to time of using marihuana. 
-The figure is immaterial. 
-There is a big difference. I did not think it would matter to honourable senators opposite. The difference between the tax increases in this Budget and those in the last one does not seem to matter at all to them. The mere suggestion of being a little out- 100,000 or a million and a half- in regard to the number of marihuana smokers seems to upset certain senators. It illustrates an interesting cast of mind, if I might say so, to be upset about such a thing like that. 
It is very difficult to make a reliable estimate in relation to this question anyway, but let us say, for the benefit of  Senator Baume,  that there are in Australia 400,000 marihuana users. The passage of this legislation would mean not only that such people would commit an offence if they used marihuana which could be reasonably suspected of being imported, but also that the Comptroller-General of Customs, subject to approval of the Attorney-General, would be able to place taps on any of their telephones. Surely there must be a balancing of society's interest in preventing the use of drugs- a view that is certainly by no means unanimous in relation to marihuana- assuming that society decides that it wants to prevent the use of drugs, as against its interest in the pursuit of civil liberties by the prevention of widescale interference with private telephone communications. 
The record in relation to telephone interceptions, insofar as that record is available to the people of Australia, as I recall it is that the estimate given to the Senate by  Senator Lionel  Murphy when he was Attorney-General was that there had been approximately 107 authorised telephone taps in a particular year. That does not seem to be an alarming figure, and perhaps it is not, but if we consider it in the context of the Opposition's first proposed amendment, concerning the definition of a narcotic offence, the scope under this legislation for widespread telephone tapping can be seen. If any person is believed to be smoking marihuana which is reasonably suspected of having been imported, the Bill gives the right to tap that person's telephone. Of course, it can be said that that power will not be exercised; that any intelligent and benign Attorney-General such as  Senator Durack  would never exercise that right, even in a fit. But when we are considering legislation, that is not the point. 
-I understood that they had been circulated, but I thought that the honourable senator, in spite of his inability to obtain a copy, would have been able to understand what I was talking about. Even if some of his colleagues could not follow it, I thought that an intelligent chap from Wannon would be able to understand what I was saying. However, as he obviously cannot, we will arrange for the proposed amendments to be circulated as quickly as possible. He will have some time, by the way, to master the details before the Committee stage. The final part of the first amendment that we will move also places a further limitation on the circumstances in which telephone taps and other interference with private communications would be allowed. That relates to the inclusion of permission to tap a telephone only in circumstances where there is a belief that a traffickable quantity of drugs is involved in the circumstances to which I was referring a minute or two ago. 
In no sense do I wish to prolong this debate. I wish merely to state the general issues which concern the Opposition. There is one issue which concerns the Opposition and about which Government senators should be concerned, particularly as we live in a society in which large numbers of people are smoking marihuana. The wide scope of this Bill in relation to people of that kind, who in my view should in no way be judged as criminals, is frightening, in that the legislation will be passed by a responsible Parliament, irrespective of how the authority would be exercised in future. Therefore, we support generally the provisions of the Bill, subject to the sorts of amendments which I have suggested and which I invite honourable senators to consider in due course. 
I move: 
Page 15. clause 20, sub-clause (3), lines 20 to 24, leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clauses: 
A Judge shall not issue a warrant under sub-section ( I ) in relation to an affidavit of the officer of Customs unless: 
the affidavit of the officer of Customs under sub-section (I) specifies the facts and other grounds on which the issue of the warrant is sought and specifies 
the name, address and occupation of the subscriber (if any) to the service; and 
the number (if any) allotted to the service by the Commission; 
the officer of Customs has given to the Judge, either orally or by further affidavit, such further information as the Judge requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of a warrant is being sought: 
the Judge is satisfied as to the matters specified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (I): 
d ) the Judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success, or would be unlikely to be successful, or would bc impracticable; and 
the Judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. (3A) Where a Judge issues a warrant under this section, he shall state on the affidavit furnished to him by the officer of Customs, which of the grounds specified in that affidavit he has relied on to justify the issue of the warrant and particulars of any other grounds relied on by him to justify the issue of the warrant. '. 
The purpose of this amendment is clear from the face of it, but it provides a minimum level of information that must be supplied to a judge before he issues a warrant. As  Senator Evans  pointed out in an earlier contribution, it is again in line with the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission. I suppose the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  will reject it for that reason. It seems to the Opposition that it is important that there should be a specification in the legislation of the minimum level of information which is provided to a judge before he issues a warrant. That is the purpose of the amendment. 
-For the sake of convenience, I seek leave to move amendments Nos. 12 to 16 together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
Page IS, clause 21, sub-clause ( 1 ), line 39, leave out 'information on oath ', insert 'affidavit'. 
Page 16, clause 21, sub-clause (2), lines 19 and 20, leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clause: 
A Judge of the Federal Court of Australia may grant a warrant under sub-section ( I ) in respect of a telegraph office, or other place under the control of the Managing Director of the Commission, situated anywhere in Australia but a Judge of a Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory or of the Northern Territory or of a State shall grant warrants under sub-section ( I ) in respect of telegrams lodged at a telegraph office in or addressed to a place in or intended to be received by a person in or reasonably believed to be in the State or Territory of which he is a Judge.'. 
Page 16, clause 2 1, sub-clause (3), lines 21 to 25, leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clause: 
A Judge shall not issue a warrant under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to an affidavit of the officer of Customs unless: 
the affidavit of the officer of Customs under subsection ( 1 ) specifies the facts and other grounds on which the issue of the warrant is sought and specifies 
the name, address and occupation of the person who lodged the telegram on whose behalf the telegram was lodged or who it is alleged is to be or reasonably suspected to be the recipient or intended recipient of the telegram; and 
the address of the telegraph office at which the telegram was or is believed to have been lodged or at which the telegram was received or is believed to have been received or is believed to be directed; 
the officer of Customs has given to the Judge, either on oath orally or by further affidavit, such further information as the Judge requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of a warrant is being sought; 
the Judge is satisfied as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (1); 
the Judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success, or would be unlikely to be successful, or would be impracticable; and 
the Judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. ". 
Page 16, clause 21, sub-clause (4), line 27, leave out '6 months', insert '30 days'. 
Page 17, clause 2 1, after sub-clause (8), insert the following new sub-clause: 
(a) Where il is impracticable for an officer of Customs to make application to a Judge for the issue of a warrant in accordance with sub-section ( 5 ), the officer of Customs may make application to a Judge by telephone in accordance with this sub-section, for the issue of a warrant in respect of telegrams lodged by or on behalf of or addressed to or intended to be received by a person; 
Before making application to a Judge by telephone under paragraph (a) the officer of Customs shall prepare an affidavit setting out the grounds on which the issue of a warrant is being sought but may, if it is necessary to do so, make application before the affidavit has been sworn; 
Where a Judge is, upon application made under this sub-section, satisfied- 
after having considered the terms of the affidavit prepared in accordance with paragraph (b); and 
after having had given to him such further information (if any) as he requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of the warrant is being sought, that there are reasonable grounds for issuing the warrant, the Judge shall issue such a warrant as he would issue under sub-sections ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) of this section; 
Where a Judge issues a warrant under paragraph (c&gt;- 
the Judge shall complete and sign the warrant; 
the Judge shall inform the officer of Customs of the terms of the warrant signed by him, and record on the warrant his reasons for issuing the warrant; and (in) the officer of Customs shall complete a form of warrant in the terms furnished to him by the Judge and write on it the name of the Judge who issued the warrant and the date on which and the time at which it was issued; 
Where a Judge issues a warrant under paragraph 
, the officer of Customs shall, not later than the day next following the date of expiry of the warrant, forward to the Judge who issued the warrant the form of warrant prepared by him and the information and affidavit duly sworn in connection with the issue of the warrant; 
f) Upon receipt of the documents referred to in paragraph (e) the Judge shall attach to them the warrant signed by him and deal with the documents in the manner in which he would have dealt with the information if the application for the warrant had been made to him in accordance with section 20; 
A form of warrant duly completed by the officer of Customs in accordance with paragraph (c) is, if it is in accordance with the terms of the warrant signed by the Judge, authority for the use of any listening device in relation to any particular person or premises that it authorises; and 
Where it is necessary for a court, in any proceeding, to be satisfied that the obtaining of a telegram or a copy of a telegram was authorised by a warrant issued by a Judge in accordance with this sub-section, and the warrant signed by a Judge in accordance with this section authorising that action is not produced in evidence, the court shall assume, unless the contrary is proved, that that action was not authorised by such a warrant and is inadmissible as evidence. '. 
In essence the first amendment has already been discussed in the context of an earlier clause. It seeks to insert provision for an affidavit instead of information on oath. It is preferable, in our view, to have it in writing for record purposes.  Senator Evans  also dealt with this matter in the context of the Law Reform Commission's report. 
Amendment No. 13 in substance has already been moved to a different clause as amendment No. 8. As I recall it, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  rejected that amendment as a matter of convenience, and presumably he will do so again. The first part of amendment No. 14 again sets out the minimum requirements upon which a judge would properly insist as being the grounds for the issue of a warrant. At this stage of the evening I do not wish to go into all the details of that provision. It is self-explanatory. A judge has to be satisfied as to certain matters in relation to the commission or the suspected commission of a narcotics offence. The last part of the amendment is concerned again with the balancing of public and private interests. That is an issue which we discussed in the course of the second reading debate. 
Amendment No. 15 again deals with reducing the life of a warrant in the circumstances which were discussed by  Senator Evans  in relation to an earlier amendment. Amendment No. 16 provides for the issue of emergency warrants and telegrams. That again is a matter which  Senator Evans  discussed in the context of the preceding amendment. I adopt and refer to the arguments which he advanced in support of the earlier amendment. I commend the amendments to the Senate. 
I move: 
Page 1 9, after clause 28, add the following new clause: 
The Minister shall as soon as practicable after 30 June each year cause to be laid before each House of Parliament a report on the effectiveness of activities undertaken by the Organization and by the ComptrollerGeneral of Customs under this Act. Such report shall include details of warrants issued under each of sections 9, 10. 11, 20 and 21 of this Act.'. 
Proposed new clause 29 provides that the Minister should lay before Parliament a report of the effectiveness of the activities by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and by the Comptroller-General of Customs under this legislation. We have been through all this before in relation to the ASIO Bill and very briefly I go through it again because it is a matter of concern and importance to the Opposition in relation to legislation of this kind. The importance, of course, attaches to the fact that we are dealing with a very serious matter in relation to the civil liberties of Australian subjects. In the context of that awareness it is desirable, in the view of the Opposition and of many commentators on this legislation, that the Minister should report to Parliament on the effectiveness of activities undertaken by the Comptroller-General of Customs, for example. I do not think I need to emphasise the arguments in relation to this matter any further except to say that it goes to the heart of the question of public accountability. 
Organisations of this kind around the world have all failed and have all got into trouble when there has not been a degree of public accountability about their activities in the absence of legislation of the kind suggested by the Opposition. The Parliament of this country should know in general terms what is going on in relation to the use of this sort of legislation. Organisations around the world have got into difficulties because of the lack of accountability, amongst other things. With legislation of this type there should be the highest degree of accountability to a Parliament such as this. There is no specification of what the proposed new clause would actually require, but the question of effectiveness should be dealt with. Of course, a basic argument about the effectiveness of legislation of this kind generally has taken place in America and in other places. It is a matter which should be the subject of a report to Parliament. I commend this important amendment to the Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1 979: 
1 ) What are the current terms and conditions of employment of  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-at-Large for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Safeguard matters. 
What has been the cost of this appointment to 28 May 1979. 
What is the estimated cost of the appointment for the financial years 1978-79 and 1979-80. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Treasurer to the statements he made earlier during Question Time about Opposition spokesmen misrepresenting the Government's position in relation to the Budget. If I may preface my question, this morning in the House of Representatives the Treasurer said that every wage and salary earner will be better off as from 1 December. Last night the Prime Minister, in answer to a question from Mike Willesee relating to disposable income, said: 
I would have thought that over the year it would probably bc static. I do not expect real incomes to improve. 
I ask: In order that Opposition senators might know which things they should misrepresent, just what is the position of the Government? 

 -Mr President, the legislation which is now before the Senate has been described by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech as legislation designed to attack the organisers of the illicit drug trade. In the second reading speech the Minister gives a lot of attention to rhetorical expressions of that kind and a lot of attention to pointing out the evils of the enormous pecuniary gains made by people who are involved in that illegal drug trade. I was reminded when I was reading the second reading speech of an offence which used to appear in the Victorian Crimes Act. I do not know whether it is still there. It was called 'abducting an heiress for motives of lucre'. That offence was there until two or three years ago, I think, and quite extensive penalties were prescribed. If I may say so the Minister, in the second reading speech, has given vent to a number of highly moralistic phrases about the evils of the drug trade. I am sure we all agree with him in relation to those matters. But in dealing with legislation of this kind before the Parliament it is a nice question of judgment whether we should allow whatever native intelligence we might have to be in a sense suborned by moralistic views about the evil with which we are confronted, and whether that might in some way detract from our capacity to create the best legislation in this Parliament in order to deal with the problem. 
There is no doubt that the drug industry in Australia is now a very big industry, and it is very big business. One only has to read in the  Bulletin  of 21 August this year an article called 'NARCInside the Australian Narcotics Bureau' to understand some of the complications and some of the implications of this problem in Australia, and the methods of tackling it. I do note that in the course of that article the author, a  Mr Delaney,  in describing his experiences in dealing with the drug traffic said: 
In those days I had not heard of Serpico. It was only years later that I read his book. 
I mention that because it is an expression which indicates the degree of melodrama with which the approach to dealing with drug trafficking is treated by journals of one kind or another, and indeed to some extent by the Press. 
The rewards for successful trading in drugs are very big. The consequence is that the penalties for being caught are very big. It is probably arguable that the drug trade has extended in a very real way into the areas of organised and disorganised crime, quite apart from the intrinsic offences. When I say 'disorganised crime', I refer to the many crimes which are committed- the holdups of chemist shops, banks and so on- by drug addicts in search of money in order that they might successfully continue their addiction. Many crimes of that kind are committed as a result of drug abuse. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of organised crime involved in relation to the drug trade. For example, one recalls the murder in Victoria of the couple known as the Wilsons who, incidentally, had made allegations that the Narcotics Bureau in Australia was infiltrated by drug traffickers and dealers, and that its work was ineffective for that reason. One has only to think of five recent murders in Melbourne which are said to be associated with traffic in drugs and one only has to recall the recent suspension of a Narcotics Bureau officer in Sydney to know something of the degree to which the drug traffic has become involved with organised crime and to indicate some degree of support for the somewhat melodramatic allegations which are sometimes made about these matters. 
I refer the Senate to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 16 August which referred io a conference in Adelaide addressed by Sydney academic,  Dr McCoy,  who was also the author of an article in the  National Times  not long ago on the manner in which the drug trade was being handled in Australia. The article stated: 
Australia's expanding heroin trade relied on police corruption and political tolerance for survival, a Sydney academic told a conference on cannabis yesterday. 
The heroin trade was virtually impossible to eradicate with established police structures,  Dr Alfred  McCoy said. 
The American-born  Dr McCoy  is a lecturer in history at the University of NSW and author of the book 'The Politics of Heroin in South-East Asia  
He said overseas experience had shown that political tolerance for syndicate-type crime and a modicum of police corruption were necessary for heroin trade. 
There was no doubt that these existed in Sydney and to a lesser extent in Melbourne. 

 Dr McCoy said the amount of heroin seized when three Australians were arrested in Bangkok last year showed that heroin trafficking to Australia was highly organised. 
There had been a massive increase in the use of heroin in Australia in the past two years as a direct result of the police crackdown on marihuana, he added. 
While marihuana had been nearly impossible to find in mid-1978, liberal quantities of heroin had been available. 
The crackdown had had some disturbing effects, he said. 
Most cannabis sellers had been replaced by a new breed of drug dealers, heroin pushers, for whom violence and murder are requisite tools of trade. ' 
Australia's drug sub-culture had been radically changed as a result. 

 Dr McCoy told the Fourth National Cannabis Conference that heroin trading ought to be an easy thing to eradicate in theory. 
A great deal of the trade was predictable and carried out on the streets. It was also expanding and involving more people, and therefore theoretically easier for police to detect. 
But its profit structure, which was huge, made it politically strong and virtually impossible to eradicate with established police structures. 
 With their enormous profit the crime syndicates ha ve the money to purchase political protection and police complicity. ' 
-I think the honourable senator is referring to what is done in Britain. 
-Yes. That is an interjection about which I am sufficiently informed to be aware of what the honourable senator is talking about without necessarily being able to follow it much further than that. This legislation is very much concerned about supply. After reading  Dr McCoy's  remarks and the sorts of speeches that have been made about this issue in the House of Representatives, one almost feels as if some of our colleagues are saying: 'Well, whatever that fellow McCoy is" saying about police corruption, it is certainly not me because look what I am saying here in the House of Representatives about the drug traffic'. Reading the Attorney-General 's second reading speech, one can clearly see that it is not him because he could not possibly do that in the circumstances which  Dr McCoy  suggests. 
Later, when I refer to the penalties in this legislation, I would simply seek to raise with the Senate the question of whether not only the rewards for drug trafficking are inducive to an increase in the drug trade- I am sure they are- but also whether the penalties imposed by this legislation might not have the same consequence in effect; that is to say, whether the question of continually raising the ante on penalties in a moralistic way is the most intelligent and practical approach to the problem. Certainly from the New York experience the suggestion seems to be that increases in the level of penalties have not been successful and, indeed, have been counterproductive. For example, it is said in New York that the involvement of young children in drug peddling is almost a direct consequence of increases in the penalties prescribed by legislation in that State. I mention these things because they are matters about which honourable senators should be thoughtful. It may be that if this legislation does not succeed we will all come back in another six months or two years and say that clearly it has failed because the penalties are not big enough. That will be the simplistic solution to the problem and I doubt very much that it is the solution to the problem in any sense. When Opposition senators deal with the question of penalties, both in the second reading and committee stages, they will make some suggestions. 
The Opposition's attitude to this legislation is that it should be withdrawn at this stage. As will be indicated by amendments, the Opposition believes that it should be withdrawn for a number of reasons relating to what it would regard as the inefficacy and inequity of the penalties, and also because of some clear defects of definition in the legislation which are likely to produce unjust results as between the trafficker and the user of drugs. That would produce an unsympathetic result in terms of with whom this legislation is designed to deal. As the Minister's second reading speech said, it is designed to attack the organisers of the illicit drug trade. The Opposition thinks that it is draconian in the sense that it picks up not only the organisers but also some of the victims, perhaps in an unintentioned way. In that sense it is imperfect in its provisions. 
The Opposition also feels that the legislation should be withdrawn and given further consideration by the Government for a number of other reasons. The first of those reasons is that it might be helpful to this legislature to have the views of  Mr Justice  Williams' Royal Commission on Drugs before this legislation is considered in depth. I know that the Minister in the House of Representatives said: 'Well,  Mr Justice  Williams has no objection to this legislation'. We are not told whether he has considered in any sense the details of it or whether any findings he is likely to make bear on the context of the legislation. We feel also that the legislation should be withdrawn because of the establishment of this Government, in response to a clearly perceived need, of a committee consisting of various police officers from the States of Victoria, Queensland and New South Wales and representation from the Commonwealth Police. That Committee has been set up to look at this whole question of police dealings with drug trafficking and drug use. 
If the Government felt the need to set up that Committee to look into the operations of the Narcotics Bureau, for example, it should likewise feel the need, in considering the legislation, to look at the recommendations of that Committee before it passes quite comprehensive legislation of this kind. The Senate will recall that, following the setting up of that Committee, we had the dramatic Eric Robinson-like resignation of  Mr Harvey  Bates- a resignation which, I think, occurred on a Friday and which was resolved on a Monday or Tuesday upon terms and conditions about which we have not been told. Clearly they related to the view of the head of the Narcotics Bureau that this was not a proper matter for police to look into, at least without representation from an officer of the Bureau of Customs on the investigation as well. When one reads all the allegations which flow back and forth in an article by a man such as  Mr Delaney  about the whole management of this question, there is considerable room for further consideration of a report from a committee of this kind. Allegations are clearly made that the police are involved so heavily in drug traffic business that, without them, it could not flourish in the way in which it does. Of course, the contrary allegation is made that members of the Narcotics Bureau and officers of the Bureau of Customs have been similarly involved. 
What the Opposition says is that the circumstances of these allegations flying back and forth and in the circumstances of the need for all these inquiries to which I have referred, members of the Bureau of Customs and officers of the Narcotics Bureau should not be given the very extensive and draconian powers which they are given by virtue of this legislation and the legislation which the Senate discussed last night relating to telecommunications interception. There is a great distinction in our minds between the right of the State to interfere with telephone interception to detect, for example, espionage or subversion and the right of the State to interfere through Customs officers, who are public servants and not members of a police force of any kind or of a qualified investigation bureau, in the question of privacy in the manner in which this 
Bill allows. I want to come back to that point in a moment. Because of the existence of the respective inquiry, because of the doubts and allegations which are flying back and forth about the Narcotics Bureau, the police and so on and because of the very substantial penalties and methods of detection which are provided by this legislation, the Opposition says: 'Should we not pause a moment to look at these various views before we rush on and give these powers to the sort of men who, officially at least, are inexperienced in their use and perhaps inadequately trained in relation to these matters?' 
I do not want to weary the Senate with the views of  Mr Delaney,  the author of the book  Narc! Inside the Australian Bureau of Narcotics,  but in a melodramatic manner he tells us at some length about the quite illegal ways in which officers involved in drug detection got round the law in relation to bugging and telephone interception and so on and how various people turned a blind eye to those activities. Before I put away the  Bulletin,  which as a journal has never been a source of great inspiration to me-- 
-That may be because I was just about to be very unkind to it in the courts. 

 -Senator 'Lynch' over there keeps interjecting but I could not hear what he said. 
-We will deal with the motives of drug traffickers today, not of journalists. They can keep. 
-That is a good question.  Mr Delaney  had a lot to say in this article about various meetings that he had to try to obtain facilities for telephone interception. There is a really marvellous passage to which I wish to refer the Senate in which he describes what happens. In the context of these debates, we have been talking about accountability to Parliament in relation to these sorts of activities. He describes how he was looking for methods of getting around the absence of legislation on phone tapping. He said: 
. he relayed a message to Harvey Bates. Perhaps the minister could come to our assistance? 'No way in the world', said Bates. 'The minister must not know about this. 
There are some things that ministers cannot know about and this is one of them. He was sacked from one ministry and he would cut our throats if he knew about this '. 
That is an interesting view from somebody who clearly, in cahoots with his colleagues, comes from a group of people who under this legislation would be entitled to intercept telephone communications. If I may say so, his view is exactly the same as that of a former police commissioner in South Australia- that is, that this was something which the Minister should not know about because it was the sort of thing that Ministers ought not to know about. That sort of conversation puts these people in the area of private armies, security guard agencies, parking attendants, traffic officers and all these para-fascist groups which exist in our society at the moment. I think it is important that we make it quite clear that we take the view that there should be responsibility to Parliament in these matters. There is another interesting comment about the view which these people have of members of Parliament.  Mr Delaney  continued: 
I listened to the debate and heard a Liberal member tell . . . radio listeners how proud he was to be a member of a party which had the courage to introduce such strong legislation. 
-Will I? He continued: 
As I listened, I thought: 'What bullshit! If you parliamentarians have the courage, you would have introduced this legislation nine years ago. You are nine years too late '. 
That is the view which is taken of members of Parliament in relation to these matters. I was making the point that the sorts of powers which exist in this legislation should not be given to Customs officers until the police inquiry has reported and until some of these matters have been sorted out. 
I want to look at some of the powers in the legislation about which we are concerned. First of all, the legislation relates to drug offences and the enforcement of the law in relation to them. But we are still concerned about the balance which we have discussed in relation to other legislation between the necessities of law enforcement and a consideration of individual rights. The major cause of concern relates again to the area of telephone interceptions and other forms of surveillance involving the use of electronic listening devices. This is important because the whole range of electronic listening devices becomes more and more sophisticated every day. Whilst we concede that those devices have to be used in particular circumstances, we are again very concerned to guard against misuse. I again refer the Senate to a passage of the report of the Australian Law Reform Commission on criminal investigation. At page 107 of that report, the Commission posed the problem in these terms: 
First, we see no distinction in principle between telephone tapping and other forms of surveillance involving the use of electronic listening devices. Secondly, we think that the police ought not to be denied all the advantages of modern technology in fighting crime which itself uses it- 
That is, those devices. The report continued: 
Monitoring of conversations without the consent of either party ought to be permitted in certain narrowly defined circumstances. Such authorisations should only be granted by a  Federal judge  . . . 
That has been conceded-  and should bc available only in respect of very serious offences. Such judicial authorisation should only be available when other investigative procedures have been tried and failed or would bc impracticable. The authorisation should state with great  particularlity  the offence, persons and places that are the subject of the surveillance, lt should contain such other specific terms and conditions as the judge considers advisable in the public interest and should be valid for a period not exceeding ten days. 
Those circumstances were canvassed in the debate on the Bill we had before us last night. The Government has indicated a view about some of them, but I again want to pose the balance which has to be struck between, on the one hand, legitimate concern about prosecuting crime and, on the other hand, the protection of individual citizens. Certainly, in the original legislation none of these procedures and safeguards was considered. As a result of events in the House of Representatives, the Government has considered certain aspects of those procedures and safeguards and they are reflected in this legislation. 
Another point I make is that the Bill also seeks powers not commonly accorded to law enforcement agencies to permit bugging. The Bill also deals with penalties, which I want to deal with in a moment. The first major concern of the Opposition is that this legislation has been somewhat rushed. It is accompanied by somewhat melodramatic statements of a moralistic nature about the evils of drug trafficking. We suggest that because of that probably the legislation has not been as well thought out as it ought to have been or as sensible as it ought to be. For that reason, we caution some delays. Secondly, we say that it is very unwise legislation in the nature of the powers which it seeks to extend to Customs officers in the present circumstances. The position has not been examined in great detail. 
Other points which I think need to be made in the course of a second reading debate relate first of all to the penalties which are provided and, secondly, to some of the definitions contained in the legislation. Those are the matters to which I now turn. The first matter I deal with is that of penalties. The 1977 legislation fixed certain penalties. For example, it fixed the penalty of a maximum of 27 years gaol for persons involved in traffickable quantities of drugs other than cannabis. I think it fixed a penalty of 10 years gaol for a person in possession of traffickable quantities of cannabis. The present legislation deals with commercial quantities of various drugs. I think they are expressed as being 1,000 times the traffickable quantities which were referred to in the 1977 legislation and the legislation provides for life imprisonment. 
The essence of the penalties imposed by this legislation is very much that the man at the lower end of the line- for example, the small-time operator who is caught in certain circumstancessuffers a proportionately greater penalty than the really big-time and serious offenders. It is rather like the Government 's taxation policy- the bloke down the bottom of the line suffers most and the big fellow gets away. Because of the total inadvisability of that from a practical point of view and because of the inequity and injustice of it, we will be moving amendments in relation to penalties. Associated with that is a discussion on the question of traffickable quantities and commercial quantities as they are referred to in the legislation. For example, as I understand it under this legislation a person found in possession of a traffickable quantity on a second occasion, having been convicted once, is deemed for the purposes of the legislation to be in the same category as a person found in possession of a commercial quantity; that is, he is subject to the most serious penalty. Of course, the implications of that for the small-time addict, as it were, are enormous in terms of the stated intention of this legislation, which according to the Minister is to attack the organisers of the illicit drug trade. 
Far from being legislation directing an attack at the organisers of the illicit drug trade, by virtue of those penalty provisions and definitions it is directed at the small operator, who may be an addict and who is caught in those circumstances in possession of a traffickable quantity of drugs on a second occasion. The fundamental defect in that is the same as the fundamental defect alleged by a number of people against the police forces, namely, that they go after a pot smoker because that distracts attention, as it were. If the police catch pot smokers and people in possession of and using marihuana and fill in their report books, or whatever they fill in, with convictions for those sorts of people, it takes the heat off the hard drug operators with whom it is alleged that some members of the police forces from dme to time have been involved. In a sense, that is what this legislation might do. It might catch a whole lot of sprats and never catch the big mackerels which it is designed to catch in accordance with the stated intention of the Minister. We think that that might be a misdirection of the intent of the legislation. It might satisfy the moralistic outpourings of some of the .Government speakers in the debate on this legislation in the House of Representatives, but it will not deal with the problem in the most intelligent way. For that reason, we are critical of those provisions. 
The third area of specific comment relates to the pecuniary penalties which are suggested by the legislation for people who are found to be involved in narcotic dealings. As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said in the lower House, this is a unique piece of Australian inventiveness. Along with the ballot box and the stump jump plough - 
-And the Australian crawl, it goes into the rhetoric of Australianism. The Minister says that no other country in the world has done this sort of thing. 
-Yes. No other country has imposed pecuniary penalties, so-called, on people who have been found to be involved in narcotics dealing. The essence of the provisions in the legislation is that if a person makes a lot of money out of drug trafficking, the Government is going to whip it off him if he gets caught. Perhaps that is not a bad idea. It shows a keen attention to the profit motive, and almost suggests that in the minds of the originators of this idea was the thought that, in relation to the punishment for succeeding with the profit motive, let the punishment fit the crime and that that would operate as a deterrent. 
I have no objection to these measures, and the Opposition supports these measures insofar as they impose additional penalties on people who make profits from drug trafficking. However, I would not have thought, in view of the other penalties imposed by this legislation, that this penalty would be very effective as a deterrent. For example, it does not seem to me that a person who is likely to get 25 years' gaol under the provisions of this legislation, will be particularly concerned about the little woman and the children at home and the money they should have when he is serving his sentence. I do not think that a person who is concerned in that way is likely to be involved in this business. I think those involved are fairly nasty people and would not be bothered about those sorts of things. I doubt whether that provision will act in any way as a deterrent, but I think it is an imaginative and perhaps appropriate attempt by the Government to impose an additional form of penalty. 
The only thing I should say about that is that in assessment of guilt or otherwise in relation to narcotics offences a criminal standard of proof should apply. In relation to the assessment of pecuniary penalties, 1 think the suggestion is that only a civil standard apply at this stage, and that would follow from a decision that a person was involved in narcotics dealings. The view of the Opposition is that civil standards should apply in assessing the pecuniary penalty at least but not in relation to an assessment of the offence itself and any conclusion which is reached in relation to that offence. 
The Opposition will be moving a number of amendments to this legislation during the Committee stage. However, at this stage we want to make the general point that, like so many things this Government does, a lot of breast-beating, a lot of moral outrage has gone into this legislation and perhaps less thought. We do not mind the moral outrage; we do not mind the breastbeating. Everybody is entitled to engage in those sorts of activities if they want to, but in this case it may have detracted from a more thoughtful approach to making this legislation deal effectively with the problem, which is now developing into tragic national proportions. This legislation is potentially ineffective and in one or two respects perhaps counter-productive in terms of the aims it seeks to achieve. We regret that it has been brought into the Senate at this stage without a little more careful analysis and a little more thought and consideration in relation to the various inquiries that have been set up. Perhaps a more constructive approach could have been taken to the problem with which we as legislators are all confronted. If I can put it this way, we approach the legislation with a certain sadness, with a sort of bonjour tristesse attitude, because we think it could have been better. Of course, that attitude is the purpose of an Opposition in a place such as this. In a House of review it is the purpose of all senators on the Government side as well as on the Opposition side. We hope that some senators on the Government side will see the point in what we are saying, on the basis of overseas experience, and that they will support some of the amendments which will be moved in the Committee stage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission reject an invitation from the World Vision organisation for an officer of the Commission to spend four days in Kampala in May 1979. 
Was the offer from World Vision such that the cash outlay by the Commission would have been nil. 
Was the offer such that the Australian Broadcasting Commission would have had full editorial control over any material produced. 
Did World Vision offer to supply the use of a full Electronic News Gathering (ENG ) crew free of charge. 
Was the cash value of the rejected offer of the order of $20,000. 
Was the offer such that, had the venture produced material, only then would the Commission have faced an optional cost of converting the videotape from American to Australian technical standards and the in-house costs of videotape editing time. 
7 ) Who was the officer responsible for this decision. 
What is his salary range. 
What steps have been taken to ensure that the officer does not make the same mistake again. 
I second the amendment and wish to speak briefly on it. We have had quite a lengthy debate on the motion that this Bill, the Customs Amendment Bill, be read a second time. I think that all honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would agree that a number of thoughtful contributions have been made. The results of thoughtful contributions to the debate show up, in a sense, the hollowness and thoughtlessness of the legislation which is before the Senate, lt is quite clear that a number of members of the Senate are not satisfied with the penalty provisions of this legislation; they are not satisfied with the Schedule; and they are not satisfied with a number of the definitions which appear in the legislation. 
At a time when two inquiries are directing their attention to these problems, particularly to the problem of what should be done about the Narcotics Bureau and also to the general question which has been debated here tonight, it is quite clear that if the Government proceeds with the legislation now we will be proceeding with legislation which, in the minds of a number of honourable senators, whatever their party affiliations might be, is unsatisfactory legislation in terms of dealing with the problem about which we are all concerned. It might be unfair to characterise the legislation, in the light of the debate and the Government's proceeding with the legislation, if that is its intention as nothing more than a stunt on this issue. The more stunts we have the more we get involved in the sorts of problems to which  Senator Chipp  averted earlier. I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Georges.  I think that it gives the Government and the Parliament a valuable opportunity to get further views on the subject from the two inquiries which are referred to in the amendment and to pause generally in relation to what might turn out to be quite a silly and counter-productive piece of legislation if it is proceeded with now. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I would like to join in the remarks made by yourself,  Mr President,  and by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  It is a sad occasion when those of us who have been associated with somebody in that other group, which is confined too often to this Parliamentbecause of that we see a lot of them- passes away at such a young age. We concur in the remarks that have been made concerning his passing. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the passage in Budget Paper No. 1 which states: 
The projected increase of some 1 8 per cent in collections of income tax from individuals, reflecting the effects of measures, includes an estimated increase in net PA YE collections of 15 per cent and  an estimated  increase of 32 per cent in receipts . . . 
I ask: Is it a fact that under the Government's announced wages policy average weekly earnings are expected to rise by approximately 9 per cent in the coming year? Does he reconcile these figures in relation to taxation and wages with his statement that people will be better off or does he reconcile them only with the Prime Minister's statement of a week ago that people will not be better off? 
-Clause 8 seeks to insert proposed new section 2 19a. The point of the proposed new section goes to the offences prescribed by section 235 of the principal Act. During the course of debate on the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill the other night we had some lengthy discussion on the way that these offences can be divided into three classes. At the worst end there is an offence which is created, in a sense, by the smuggling of drugs. That puts it in its simplest form. At the other end of the scale is an offence which relates to being in possession of a small quantity of drugs. For example, it could be marihuana. In the case of being in possession of that small quantity for a second time it is deemed to be a commercial quantity and certain consequences flow as a result of the penalties which are prescribed. 
In the course of the debate on the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, the Opposition made a number of points about the undesirability of penalties applying to people at the lower level of the scale, as it were. Those points were, in a sense, conceded by some people on the Government side. At page 150 of the Senate  Hansard  of 22 August section 235 of the principal Act was discussed. In the course of that discussion  Senator Puplick  referred to the Opposition amendment and said:   1 think it is likely to defeat a number of purposes that all honourable senators believe ought to be pursued and pursued with some vigour. It is because the amendment does not confine itself solely to the problem of cannabis that I will not be able to support it. 
I would have thought the honourable senator's comment carried a clear implication that if the amendment was not so worded he would support it. The amendment moved in this case is similar to the amendment moved in relation to the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill except that it concludes with the words: 'Does not include such an offence if it involves less than a trafficable quantity of cannabis or cannabis resin'. I think a number of honourable senators in the debate on the other Bill conceded, in part at least, the comments which were made by the Opposition. As I recall it,  Senator Chipp  also made a number of comments along the same lines.It is because it is our task as a House of review to produce the best legislation possible and legislation which has the concurrence of as many honourable senators as possible, irrespective of party allegiance, that I move: 
Page5, clause 8, proposed new section 219a, sub-section (a), lines 30 and 3 1 definition of 'narcotics offence', leave out the definition, insert ' "narcotics offence" means an offence against sub-section (4) of section 50 or sub-section (2B) of section 1 12 or sub-section ( 1 ) of section 23 1 or section 233a or paragraphs (a) (b) (c) (cb) or (d) or sub-section ( I ) of section 233B and is punishable under S.235 ( 1 ) or 235 (2) or the Customs Act 1 90 1 , but does not include such an offence if it involves less than a trafficable quantity of cannabis or cannabis resin'. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
Does the Government propose to initiate a study on the economic and employment effects of the $135m of taxpayers' money that is spent at present on the investment allowance, in the light of the Crawford Study Group 's inability to assess this on the information currently collected, and its call for such a study to be conducted. 
-I refer the Minister for Education to the Budget Speech and the implementation by the Budget of what is called an overseas student charge'. Can the Minister give us some information on this matter? If not, will he bring down a statement at some stage in relation to it, particularly indicating how many students are likely to be affected by this charge, when it will come into operation and how private students, as referred to in the Budget Speech, will be defined for the purpose of implementing this charge? 
-by leave-I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. I do not have the advantage of the report of what was asked by my colleague from Queensland,  Senator MacGibbon,  but at Question Time today he asked a question of  Senator Carrick  relating to a speech which I made in the Senate on 22 August. I must say that  Senator Carrick,  in that benign way which he has, indicated that time would be made available to me because it was a matter for my conscience. It is not a matter for my conscience; what took place is a matter of fact. If we look at the facts, I think that a very good starting point would be to look at  Senator Carrick  's answer.  Senator Carrick  said that on a number of occasions he had had comments from other honourable senators about the contents of this speech, that they were concerned about it, and that because of that he had taken the trouble to check the facts. In answer to the question he went on to say, for example, that I had claimed that the Australian Institute of Marine Science in Townsville was a Whitlam Government initiative. If he had checked the facts and read the  Hansard  report of what I had said, he would have seen that what I said was that the Whitlam 
Government had established the Australian Institute of Marine Science in Townsville, and that is a fact. 
Seantor  BUTTON- Honourable senators opposite might not like it, but it is a fact. The history of the Australian Institute of Marine Science in Townsville is that for a period covering four Liberal governments it was discussed in this Parliament. Each one of those governments could claim that it was its initiative, but, like most Liberal governments, nothing was done. It was the Whitlam Government which established the Australian Institute of Marine Science and which chose the site and built the building; and it is there today. That is what I said and what is recorded in  Hansard.  I have been misrepresented by  Senator Carrick  who has been as sloppy in dealing with this matter as he is in dealing with most matters in connection with the Budget, for example. That was the second point of  Senator MacGibbon  's question. Is that his name? 
It is not a question of memory; it is a question of knowledge. The other point to which  Senator MacGibbon  's question alluded was that it was suggested that I said in the speech of 22 August 1979 that the money for marine science had been taken out of the general research funding budget. What I said may be wrong, but if it is wrong so are the Budget Papers tabled by this Government. I want to refer to the Budget Papers on that precise issue. I commend to  Senator MacGibbon  a reading of the Budget Papers on a number of matters, including the Government's taxation proposals but particularly on this matter, if he wants to ask these sorts of questions about it. Under the heading of Research Grants' the Budget Papers refer to the Queen Elizabeth II Fellowships Scheme and then continue: 
Grants through the Australian Research Grants Scheme make up some 89 per cent of the research assistance provided. Provision of $0.4m is also included for a new program of research support for marine sciences and technologies . . . 
That is the statement upon which I relied- a printed statement in the Budget Papers- for the statement I made in the Senate on 22 August. I do not detract for one minute from that statement, because nobody can do anything else but rely on a printed statement in the Government's Budget Papers to draw a conclusion about a matter such as that. 
I would not normally waste the time of the Senate with this sort of explanation, but if we are to have a sort of 'answers to inaccuracies time' we would be here for five years listening to  Senator Carrick  explain himself in such circumstances. I think it is important that the matter be corrected. If honourable senators on the Government side want to shoot at matters of detail such as this, they should at least get their facts right. To that extent I have been misrepresented in respect of matters of fact and, more particularly, by  Senator Carrick  's inaccurate answer. 
-Has the Minister for Education calculated the fall in the real value of postgraduate awards since January1977 when they were last substantially increased? Is it a fact that taking into account past and expected movements in the consumer price index and the introduction of taxation of awards in November1978 the awards will have fallen in real value by 36 per cent by December 1 980? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The report of the Tertiary Education Commission for the 1979-81 triennium which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has just tabled arises, as the earlier education report did, in a sense, from the guidelines which were imposed by the Government on the Commission on 5 June 1979. 1 draw the Senate's attention to some key paragraphs in the report. The report, being a report from an independent authority of educational experts- I hesitate to use that expression, but do so for want of a better oneindicates quite clearly the restrictions which government policy has imposed in relation to the tertiary education area. I refer the Senate, first of all, to paragraph 50 of the report, which states, under the heading 'Conclusions and Recommendations ': 
In discharging the requirements of the guidelines for 1980 only limited options are open to the Commission. In the university and advanced education sectors there is $ 16m less in 1980 than in 1979 for equipment and capital works. After meeting, as required, commitments both for on-going building projects and for the Australian Maritime College, the limited scope for the Commission to satisfy the compelling but competing demands for equipment, minor works and new building projects becomes clear The funds available in 1980 for these purposes are over $21m or 27 per cent less than in 1979. 
Later in the report, in the Commission's conclusions and recommendations, it referred to its comments on building programs in tertiary education. I refer the Senate to paragraphs 24 and 26 of this report because they indicate very clearly the effects of the Government's policies on tertiary education in Australia. More particularly, they indicate the problem of the backlog of requirements which is building up in the education system. They indicate the very adverse effect which the imposition of these guidelines is having on the system as a whole. Paragraph 24 states: 
In concluding this section, the Commission feels that it should make some observations about buildings programs beyond 1980. Commonwealth building expenditure on tertiary education will have fallen in real terms by some $ 104m or 44 per cent in the space of the five years since 1 97S. 
I interpolate there to say that the comment is made that funds for these matters have fallen by 44 per cent since the Labor Government went out of office. I am not saying that expenditure could or would necessarily have been maintained responsibly at the level of funding available in 1975, but I am saying quite clearly that this Government, in its treatment of this issue, has embraced the standards of 1975 and then allowed them to slip. That is quite clear from what the Commission states in the two paragraphs to which I am referring. Paragraph 24 continues: 
In the same period - 
That is, between 1975 and 1980- the universities' share of the total program has fallen from 3 1 to 13 per cent, the advanced education sectors' share has fallen from 32 to 22 per cent, and TAFE has increased its share from 17 to 65 per cent. The increasing emphasis on TAFE reflects relative need and is consistent with Government policy; however the effect of this change in emphasis, coupled with the marked decline in the overall availability of funds, has reduced the building programs of the other two sectors to a point where annual programs are making too small an impact on the backlog of needs. 
Again I emphasise that this Government is creating a backlog of needs, and it is doing so on the basis of an allocation of funds between the three sectors of tertiary education for which there has been no articulate and rational justification given at any stage by the Government. 
-I do not know what the honourable senator thinks sounds elitist. Perhaps he can tell me. 
I am not complaining about that at all. It is a mistake to interject when one does not know what one is doing. What I am saying is that no rational or articulate explanation has been given by this Government for the concentration on technical and further education at the level at which the expenditure runs proportionately to the other sectors. 
The honourable senator can bandy those silly words about, but he can do better than that. I am asking for some explanation of this. One suspects that the explanation lies a great deal more in mythology than in reality, but in the absence of any explanation we can only guess. A lot of the emphasis on TAFE has been justified by government spokesmen as being a response to the need to train further tradesmen in Australia, that is to say, there is a shortage of skilled tradesmen. I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training casts some doubt on that. That is the sort of thing I have in mind. The Government is commissioning reports which, according to the rhetoric of Ministers, will provide blueprints for education until the year 2000. Whether the Williams report does that is a matter of great doubt and a subject for debate, but on the question of the training of skilled tradesmen in Australia it casts doubt of many of the assumptions which have been used as empty and woolly rhetoric to justify particular expenditures in particular areas. 
With the greatest of respect, I am not blaming the Minister for Education for this is any sense. He will have read the Williams report and  Senator Baume  probably has not. The Minister will understand that that is a problem to which that Committee drew attention. All I am saying is that we have to consider it. The argument and the debate about that are not helped by some mock proletarianism on the part of  Senator Baume,  who thinks it is a good idea to suggest that anybody who favours spending money on universities is elitist.  Senator Baume  as a populist politician is really too much for me; it has come too late in life for him. That is the point I am seeking to make. In paragraph 26 of this report the Commission states: 
In view of the above situation the Commission is firmly of the view that the capacity of universities and colleges to meet their teaching and research commitments will be seriously impaired unless there is an increase in the funds available for  capital works in future years above the level available in 1980. 
The important point about that statement by the Commission is that at the moment this Government is building up problems for the future in the education system. That is something about which we all ought to be concerned. I concede absolutely that any government is entitled to its economic priorities, but any Opposition is entitled to point out that it is creating problems for the future. That is precisely what I am doing. 
If there is to be, as the wishful thinkers of Australian politics hope, some renaissance in the economic situation of this country and if some sort of national initiative and capacity and some sense of direction as to where we as a society are going are to be developed- they are absolutely necessary if we are to get out of the leaderless and despondent trough into which Australian Society has sunk under the Fraser Governmentthere will be a need for a very important contribution to that process from Australia's tertiary education institutions. More particularly, there will need to be a response in terms of research and the capacity of Australian tertiary institutions to deliver the goods in terms of products of research schools and so on. What the Commission is saying, of course, really indicates that these matters- to use the Commission's phrasewill be seriously impaired' if something is not done about the levels of expenditure which the Government is prepared to consider for tertiary education. 
Of course, the most important point is that this comment is made particularly in relation to research. I tried to indicate a minute ago what I regard as the significance and importance of research in trying to recapture some sense of direction and national achievement in this country, because the days are fast running out when anybody else is going to do it for us. In that context I speak not with a lonely voice. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development examiners, the Williams Committee and the Tertiary Education Commission have drawn attention on a number of occasions to the appalling level of research expenditure and effort in Australia. That is a very symbolic thing. We can look back over this country's history of national achievement and national pride and we can count on the lingers of one hand almost the great scientific achievements and the great programs such as the Snowy Mountains program. These things are still very important in terms of a sense of national achievement. Research is one of those things, and it is one of those things about which we should not have the Tertiary Education Commission saying: 'These things will be seriously impaired by the present Government's programs'. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I wish to speak very briefly to this statement and report. For some reason, which will now go into the footnotes of history, I moved for the adjournment of this matter, when it was first presented. Studying the paper tonight, I cannot for the life of me think why. Having done that, I want to make some brief comments about the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The burden of that report has been a matter of comment by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs,  Mr Viner,  because the report raises a number of issues which are relevant to two annual reports which were considered by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. The first report that I want to refer to is the report of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. That is dealt with at some length in the statement of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster).  The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs drew attention in its comments in relation to these two reports to two important matters. The first was the delay in publication of the reports and the need for very prompt attention to be given to this question. The Committee took the view that if the reports were not published with alacrity or something of that kind, they would be of limited value to the Senate and to people who were interested or might have been interested in their contents. 
The second point which the Committee concerned itself with was the question of Public Service staff ceilings imposed by the Government. The Committee dealt with this question in two ways. It drew attention to the fact that the Australian Law Reform Commission report had been delayed and one of the reasons attributed for the delay was the inadequacy of staff ceilings in the Commission. The Law Reform Commission, I think, is on record as saying that it is unable to perform its function adequately because of staff ceilings and that has imposed time constraints on it, particularly in the area of collecting data about legal matters and coordinating the work of the various law reform commissions in Australia other than the Australian Law Reform Commission. The Commission expressed considerable concern about that question. I refer the Senate very briefly to the last published report of the Australian Law Reform Commission and to the introduction to that report. It is quite clear from that introduction that in terms of the chapter headed 'Getting the Best Value out of Law Reform', the Commission felt that the best value that could be obtained out of the Law Reform Commission might be more adequate staff ceilings and staff who would enable it to collect information and data in order to act as a clearing house, as it were, for the work of other law reform commissions. 
The other report to which the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs adverts is that of the Science and the Environment Committee. There are a number of other examples in the report of the Committee again illustrating delays which the Committee says are occasioned by staff ceilings, amongst other matters, and again relating that question of staff ceilings to the need for prompt presentation of the reports. I think that the point insofar as this Senate Committee report is concerned is well made. The Government has an overall policy in relation to staff ceilings, particularly of statutory bodies. Of course, it is within the province of the Government to determine these matters. On the other hand, if consequences flow from the imposition of those staff ceilings, I think it is important that we at least advert in the Senate to the consequences which do flow. We should recognise that the bodies concerned in the publication of their reports and efficacious performance of their functions are inhibited by the situation which now exists. That is the only comment I wish to make about this report. 
-I move: 
Page 8, proposed section 219b, sub-section (10), lines 13 and 14, at end of sub-section, add ', except that a warrant under sub-section ( 7 ) of this section shall specify a period for which it is to remain in force being a period not exceeding 30 days '. 
This proposed amendment is consequential upon the defeat of the previous proposed amendment. It requires that a warrant under sub-section (7) shall specify the period for which it is to remain in force, being a period not exceeding 30 days. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I refer to reports of a recently promulgated Soviet law, operative from 1 July 1979, which declares as Soviet citizens all persons born in territories now forming part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, as well as their children. It is reported that this law also makes the renouncing of Soviet citizenship a punishable offence. I ask: Are these reports correct? If so, is it the view of the Government that, as has been reported, the aim of this law is to discourage Russian emigrants from visiting their countries of origin, particularly during the Moscow Olympic Games? Has the Australian Government made any representations to the USSR regarding the implications of this law? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented during Question Time. 
Leave granted. 
-During Question Time today  Senator Carrick  answered a question from  Senator Lewis  which  Senator Carrick  was about as unqualified to answer as he is on most questions which are directed to him. That question involved a meeting at the Caulfield Institute of Technology last week. The question which was asked by  Senator Lewis  implied, firstly, that I organised a meeting at the Caulfield Institute of Technology; secondly, that I arranged the attendance of newspaper reporters; thirdly, that nobody attended; and fourthly, that when nobody attended I then arranged for an article to be published in today's issue of the Melbourne  Age  relating to what I was going to say if the meeting had taken place. 
The personal explanation which I wish to make is, firstly, I did not organise any meeting at the Caulfield Institute of Technology; secondly, I did not arrange for the Press to attend; thirdly, 1 did not subsequently seek to have published in the Melbourne  Age  an article relating to what I was going to say at the Caulfield Institute of Technology; and fourthly, I would say that the meeting was billed and I was invited to take part in a debate with  Mr Roger  Shipton, the Liberal member for Higgins.  Mr Shipton  did not front, in spite of four invitations being extended to him. If I may say so, I understand that to be a tribute to  Mr Shipton  's perspicacity. He is an astute man and it was only common sense for him not to turn up. 
I have been invited to take part in a further debate with  Mr Shipton  at the Caulfield Institute of Technology. I will attend, and I hope that the Minister will prevail on  Mr Shipton  to attend also. Might I say further that the only meeting of students which I have addressed relating to the matters which were referred to in the question and the answer was at the Armidale University. This meeting took place in the street and 700 students attended. 
I will recapitulate briefly on this matter. I make the point that in the course of the debate on the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill an amendment was moved by the Opposition to a provision in that Bill which is similar to the one we are presently debating. In the course of the debate on that amendment some Government senators, notably  Senator Puplick,  said that the amendment was not satisfactory to them and that it could be improved. The Opposition, being ever diligent in these matters and seeing as it does, from time to time at least, the Senate as a House of review, felt that it was its task as an Opposition to move an amendment in the course of this debate which was clearly acceptable to  Senator Puplick.  In fact, in the course of the previous debate, the honourable senator told us how to amend the Bill. It was very benign of him to do so. We have now moved an amendment which is acceptable, one assumes, to  Senator Puplick  in the spirit in which this House reviews legislation. 
I do not need to go into the details of the amendment now except to say that we believe that it should accommodate the wishes of the Committee. Accordingly, I have moved the amendment in the form in which it appears in the list of the amendments circulated by the Opposition. 
-I move: 
Page 7, clause 8, sub-section (5) of proposed new section 219b, line 4, leave out 'information on oath', insert affidavit'. 
This matter was discussed in the Committee debate on the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill. The purpose of the amendment is twofold: Firstly, that the officer concerned should go to sufficient trouble to put his mind to the question of what he is alleging and to put on paper what he is alleging; secondly, that there should be documents of record relating to the circumstances in which a judge is prepared to make an order under the provisions of the proposed new section. Those are both matters which relate to the protection of the subject, the protection of the potentially involved citizen. In their own way, they provide checks and safeguards against hasty and ill-considered administrative action by the officer concerned. They provide the circumstances in which the judge shall act and they provide documents which show what has happened and they can be referred to as documents of record. For those reasons I have moved the amendment. As I have said, they are matters which go to the question of civil liberties in relation to this legislation. 
-In the interests of brevity in what the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has to say, perhaps it would help if I moved amendment No. 5 in conjunction with this amendment and spoke briefly to it. I move: 
Page 7, clause 8, sub-section (6) of proposed new section 2 1 9b, at end of sub-section add ' but a Judge of the Supreme Court of a State or of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory or of the Australian Capital Territory shall not grant a warrant authorizing the use of a listening device unless the listening device is to be used in the State or Territory of which the Judge is a Judge of the Supreme Court'. 
Amendment No. 5 is directed to ensuring that a judge of the Supreme Court of a State or of one of the Territories should be able to issue a warrant authorising the use of a listening device only within his jurisdiction as a judge. It will be recalled that the proposed new section provides that a judge of the Federal Court can issue a warrant in respect of the whole of Australia. The Opposition believes that that is appropriate but that a judge of a State or Territory should not be able to issue a warrant in respect of areas outside his jurisdiction. The reason for that is obvious. It does not seem to us to be appropriate that that should be done. We do not want to have a Supreme Court judge elevated to the status of a person who, as we put it in the other debate, may have an obsessional interest in issuing warrants throughout the Commonwealth, as he can at present. It is for that reason that I have moved amendment No. 5 in conjunction with amendment No. 2. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 8, clause 8, sub-section (8) of the proposed new section 2 19b, line 4, after 'Judge', insert 'of the Federal Court'. 
Page 8, clause 8, at the end of sub-section (8) of proposed new section 2 19B, add 'but a Judge of the Supreme Court of a State or of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory or of the Australian Capital Territory shall not grant a warrant authorising the use of a listening device unless the use of a listening device is in respect of premises situated in the State or Territory of which the Judge is a Judge of the Supreme Court'. 
Both amendments involve issues which already have been discussed. I merely formally move the amendments and rely on the reasons previously advanced by the Opposition in support of them. 
-I move: 
Page 8, proposed section 219b, sub-section (10), lines 13 and 14, leave out the sub-section, insert the following sub-section: "( 10) A warrant under sub-section (S) or sub-section (7  ) of this  section shall specify a period for which it is toremain in force being a period not exceeding 30 days. ' '. 
The amendment, in a sense, speaks for itself, but again I wish to reiterate, as I did in the course of the debate on the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, that the time for which a warrant should run in relation to electronic surveillance is a matter which the Opposition regards seriously and considers should be limited as far as possible. In the course of the debate on the previous legislation we pointed to the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission on this issue and to the fact that the Commission had described electronic surveillance as being exploratory, unselective and words of that kind. 
-And indiscriminate in its operations. Let me illustrate this in another way. It catches all sorts of conversations and communications between people which might otherwise be regarded as totally private. It involves all sorts of people other than the target person in recording conversations and as such it represents a potential invasion of privacy of many people other than the particular person to whom the warrant may in fact be directed. It is for that reason that we put this as a sort of thin end of the wedge invasion of privacy. Perhaps it is a slightly thicker thin edge, if there is such a thing, than one might otherwise imagine. Electronic surveillance is a matter of concern and a matter which I hope the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will take a little more seriously than the Government has tended to do to date. 
-The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  used an interesting expression in discussing this amendment. He said that the Government was concerned not to put an undue burden on people. I rise to speak to that expression because I hope that we are not talking, with respect, about a vast army of Customs officers who will be concerned. On the basis of previous experience, we are concerned about a relatively limited number of applications for warrants for electronic surveillance. What we are talking about in the context of this debate is the balance of burdens. We do not see it as being particularly onerous, particularly when we consider the nature of electronic surveillance and the points which we have tried to make about its totally indiscriminate nature and the fact that it catches everybody from the grocer taking a weekly order to a lover, or something like that. 
The point I am trying to make is that electronic surveillance catches a whole range of private conversations. To claim, as the Government claims, that that sort of warrant should run on and on and on represents, we think, a really irresponsible approach to the real issues. We are not here to prop up a collection of Customs officers who on past performances have not been too good in relation to that sort of thing; we are here to discuss issues relating to the citizens of Australia and the subjects concerning Australia as a whole. It is sheer nonsense to talk about the measure placing a great burden on Customs officers. It would not need to do that at all. The principle which we advance has not been grappled with by the Attorney-General, but I guess he persists. 
I move: 
Page 10, clause 8, proposed section 219k, after subsection (2 ), add the following new sub-sections: 
The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June each year, cause to be laid before both Houses of Parliament a report which shall compile in full the reports made to the Minister by the Comptroller under subsection ( 1 ) during the preceding year. 
Notwithstanding sub-section (3), the Minister shall not disclose in a report under sub-section (3) any information which would or would be reasonably likely to: 
prejudice the investigation of a breach or possible breach of the law or the enforcement of proper administration of the law in a particular instance; 
b ) prejudice the fair trial of a person or the impartial adjudication of a particular case; 
disclose, or enable a person to ascertain, the identity of a confidential source of information in relation to the enforcement or administration of the law; 
disclose methods or procedures for preventing, detecting, investigating, or dealing with matters arising out of, breaches or evasions of the law, the disclosure of which would, or would be reasonably likely to, prejudice the effectiveness of those methods or procedures; or 
endanger the lives or physical safety of persons engaged in or in connection with law enforcement. 
f) unreasonably disclose information relating to the personal affairs of any person (including a deceased person). 
Where any information is withheld from a report to Parliament under sub-section (4), the report shall detail the number of cases to which sub-section (4) applies and the reason, being a reason specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of sub-section (4), for non-disclosure of information in each case. 
Any information withheld under sub-section (4) shall be detailed in an annual report to Parliament under sub-section (3) at the first available opportunity after the reason for non-disclosure, being a reason specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of sub-section (4), is no longer applicable.' 
The proposed amendment provides that some new sub-sections should be added after subsection (2) in proposed section 2 19k. In essence, the purpose of those proposed sub-sections is to provide that each year the Minister shall lay before both Houses of Parliament a report which shall be a compilation of the reports made to the Minister by the Comptroller-General during the preceding year. The Government is always very nervous about the suggestion of accountability to Parliament or public disclosure of any of these snoopy activities. The proposed amendment is designed to indicate much more clearly to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  than perhaps has been indicated on previous occasions the matters which we feel should be excluded from such a report. I refer to such matters as would reveal secrets, as it were- legitimate secrets- in relation to breaches of the law and matters which might prejudice the fair trial of a person, disclose the identity of an agent or a confidential source, disclose the methodology of the Comptroller-General and his crew, endanger people's lives, unreasonably disclose information and so on. 
The rest of the proposed amendment is designed to ensure that where information of that kind is withheld- we would say properly withheld- the details of the information withheld, in skeleton form, should be disclosed to the Parliament also. I do not mean that the facts of a matter should be disclosed, but that the fact that information has been withheld should be disclosed. I really cannot follow the Government's objection to a provision of that kind. It is most important to have such a provision if this legislation is to be used, in the way envisaged in the ringing tones of the second reading speech, to stamp out crime in relation to narcotics and if it is to have the far-reaching effect which the Government hopes it will have. Many honourable senators- on both sides of the chamber, incidentally- doubt whether it is the right hammer to crack that nut, if I may put it in those terms. We say that in that situation it is proper that a report on what is going on should be made to the Parliament. 
We do not want to embarrass anybody. We do not want to embarrass any Customs officers, the Comptroller-General, or the Government; we want to assert the primacy of Parliament in relation to having a general picture of the extent to which this legislation is being used and to which the proposals of the Government are being developed. As I said, we do not want to disclose any secrets or for the Government to have to disclose any secrets in a report of that kind; we want to assert a principle, namely, that Parliament has supremacy in relation to these matters. If we escape from that principle in relation to Customs officers, in our view the Parliament will be making a mistake. 
-Might I tell the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  how we think he can do it, because he is obviously concerned about this matter. With respect, one has to see this amendment in the context of the legislation as a whole. The Attorney-General says, first of all, that it would be undesirable to disclose this information because it would prejudice the method of operation of the Customs officers concerned in unveiling- or whatever the expression is- narcotics offences. Then he goes on to say that in any event none of this information could be disclosed and there would be no point in disclosing it because, under the Opposition's amendment, it would not be worth having. With the greatest of respect, I would be assisted as a member of this parliament who is concerned about the narcotics industry, if I can tell it that- and many honourable senators indicated their concern in the course of the debate- even by a report to this Parliament which stated: 'We are happy to report to you that, in the last 12 months, as a result of this legislation being passed by the Senate, all the drug ring operators in Australia have got scared to death and have gone overseas. Fewer warrants have been issued for electronic surveillance than were issued last year. We have not had to rely on the provisions of the Act nearly as much as we expected. We are a very clever Government and we have stopped the whole business '. Such a report would be very encouraging and helpful to me as a member of parliament. 
On the other hand, a report which stated that because of the proliferation of the drug traffic in Australia increased steps had to be taken under this legislation to enlarge the staff of the Comptroller-General of Customs and to authorise an increased number of telephone taps or electronic surveillance methods and which indicated whether these things are working or are not working would be helpful to me as a citizen and as a member of parliament. As I said earlier, we are not interested in disclosing matters which would reveal the names of agents and that sort of thing. We do not want that information and in our amendment we specify that that is not what we want. Instead of settling on that notion of a report to the Parliament, the Minister says: 'Ultimately, it all boils down to ministerial responsibility'. We know perfectly well that if we asked him a question about his ministerial responsibility in relation to this legislation- I say this with the greatest respectbased on his previous form we would not get an answer. He will just say: 'Having regard to the provisions of the Customs Act, it is clearly not a matter that Parliament is intended to know anything about. The Act provides for ministerial responsibility and for reporting to the Minister. It does not provide for reporting to Parliament, or for my answering to Parliament about what is going on. I therefore decline to answer'. 
We have had that sort of response from  Senator Durack  before in relation to Australian Security Intelligence Organisation matters and, of course, we would get them in relation to this matter also. With respect, I appreciate that the Minister has been given his instructions; that he has attended a Cabinet meeting at which a certain decision has been reached. I am merely saying that that decision is a bit thick. I know that the Minister must argue it here in the way in which he has, but I emphasise that to do so really does not grapple with the issue. I say that now because I want it recorded in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
Does the Commonwealth Government, through any of its Departments, collect statistics which: 
identify sectors within the economy in which there are shortages and oversupplies of human skills; 
record the introduction of computers and modern electronics industry products into the economy; or 
record, on an enterprise or sector basis, the impact of the computer and modern electronics industry on employment levels: if so, what arc the details for the period from 1 970 to 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Why does Rule 5(b) (vi) of the Rules for Guidance of Persons Flying the Australian National Flag, contained in the departmental publication 'The Australian National Flag', create an exception to the general principle that, where the Australian flag is flown in Australia with flags of other nations, it should occupy the position of honour- the most central position. 
I refer the Minister for Education to the Budget Papers estimate that the introduction of a charge on private students from overseas countries who enrol for the first time or who change their courses of study at Australian universities or colleges of advanced education will yield $6m in 1979-80. 1 ask: How are the expressions 'private students' and 'change of course' to be defined for the purpose of the levying of this charge? For example, will 'private students' include persons sponsored by community aid programs, such as Rotary and the Freedom from Hunger campaign? Will the expression include persons awarded university post-graduate awards and external students from Papua New Guinea? What is in fact meant by the expression 'change of course '? 
-In the course of the 1 975 election campaign, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, promised that if his party was elected to power in this country it would provide what he called government for all the people. I want to examine that promise amidst the array of other promises which were made by that gentleman in an extraordinary smorgasbord of undertakings which he has been unable to deliver. I want to examine that promise in the context of incomes and what that promise means, after five years of Fraser Government, to the incomes of the people of Australia. More particularly, I want to look at the question of what it means, after five years of Fraser Government, not only for unemployed people and the ordinary Australian wage earner but more particularly for the average Australian family. I remind the Senate that in dealing with this problem one does so in the context of a government which has consistently opposed wage indexation, consistently sought to lower the value of real wages and consistently sought to use the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as a scapegoat for the failure of the Government's economic policies. I remind the 
Senate that the Fraser Government is a government which promised to govern for all Australians and which has presided in the intervening years over a declining standard of living for most Australians, a fall in the value of disposable income for most families, increased health costs, higher interest rates and increased petrol prices. I would make that reminder in the context of singularly confused and discriminatory attitudes by Ministers of the Government towards the issue of incomes in Australia. For example, only three weeks ago the Prime Minister, after four years of maintenance of the view that wages were responsible for most of the problems of this country, went on record in the  Australian  newspaper as saying that wages are a neutral factor in inflation. Four weeks ago he said that after four years of saying exactly the opposite. He also said four weeks ago that there had been no significant wage drift outside the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. For four years he has been saying exactly the opposite. How can the people of Australia be anything but confused as a result of the policies of a government led by this man? 
Let me look at another aspect of the change in income patterns in Australia, that is, the singularly discriminatory nature of the Government's attitude towards these questions. I point out that the changes in the lowering of the value of the average family income in this country have been accompanied by, in the last year or so, greatly increased profits in the corporate sector amongst larger companies and a relative erosion of earnings of skilled manpower. The Government is constantly saying that Australia needs more skilled manpower, while some Ministers say that more skilled manpower can be brought here as migrants, or that there should be more training in Australia for skilled manpower. The answer to the problem is to be found in taxis and trucks in Melbourne, Sydney and places like that where skilled tradesmen are doing that sort of work because they are given inadequate rewards by the system which has developed in the last few years. In addition to that, as a discriminatory factor there have been significant rises in unregulated incomes, particularly the incomes of the professional classes in Australia, such as lawyers and doctors, which are totally discriminatory and vitally relevant to the whole question of the incomes policy. For example, I notice that members of the Victorian Bar recently received a 13 per cent or 14 per cent increase in their remuneration. 
It was some three years ago. The increase to the Victorian Bar was justified by my good friend, the  Chairman  of the Victorian Bar Council,  Mr Frank  Costigan, Q.C., on the basis of changes in the consumer price index. What are people on salaries of $80,000 to $ 1 50,000 a year- that is the upper range at the Victorian Bar- doing justifying those increases by changes in the CPI? How is that a measure of the significant changes which ought to be made in those sorts of incomes? Are the prices of vegetables, meat, bread and petrol relevant to those sorts of incomes in any real sense? There are plenty of examples to hand from which one can see this growing discrepancy between incomes in this country. 
Of course, these things are all connected. One cannot ask the majority of Australian wage and salary earners to forego their living standards at the same time as a blind eye is turned to the rapacity of the Australian medical profession. The Government cannot govern for all Australians if it does that; it cannot arrive at any social consensus about where this country is or ought to be going. It cannot do that in a context where there is growing unemployment and no increase in unemployment rates on the one hand and, on the other hand, a Prime Minister who flits about all over the world in exclusive and expensive Boeing aircraft. That cannot be justified in a society like this because these things are relative and of concern to people. One cannot waffle away about a $4.50 tax cut for average weekly earners and a $38 tax cut for a man like the Prime Minister on $80,000 a year. Of course, the problem is exacerbated by the recent Budget.  Mr Acting President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  two tables, one showing real after tax income based on the 1978-79 and 1979-80 taxation rates, and a document showing percentage increases in prices and wages, average weekly earning increases and increases under the metal trades Award in the period December 1974 to June 1979 which is the period of this Government. 
-Yes, certainly. I should indicate that those documents have been incorporated already in  Hansard  in the House of Representatives. These problems of growing discrepancies between the incomes of certain professions and the incomes of ordinary wage and salary earners are a source of great social tension in the community. Today I want to illustrate the point by reference to the salaries and earnings of members of the medical profession in 
Australia, compared with the salaries and earnings of average income earners and below average income earners. At the same time, I point out that, as the ordinary family is being burdened with additional health charges, there have been steadily and rapidly rising incomes for members of the medical profession. The recent Ludeke inquiry into medical fees resulted in a 13 per cent average increase to doctors' incomes. The Senate will recall that in the course of that inquiry the medical profession- the Australian Medical Association- refused to disclose the level of doctors 'incomes. 
If a wage earner seeks a wage increase through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission he has to disclose everything. The company from which he is seeking a wage increase need not disclose anything. But in the case of the medical profession, when  Mr Justice  Ludeke requested information from the AMA about doctors' salaries and earnings, he was told that it could not be provided. Who do these people think they are- doctors or witch doctors? What is their right- as a group in the community- to refuse that sort of information to a responsible tribunal? What is the attitude of the Fraser Government in the face of that refusal? The Fraser Government supinely backed down. It is the Government which all the time is talking about the necessity for reducing real wages. That Government backed down in the face of the Australian Medical Association and refused to insist on the disclosure of those figures. Very little information is available as the basis for assessment of rising medical incomes. 
Let us examine the question of the medical profession in more detail in terms of social responsibilities to Australian society. The average cost, estimated by the Department of Health, of training a doctor in Australia- a member of the medical profession- is $7,500 a year. This represents the highest cost to the taxpayer of any group of students at Australian universities. One might expect some degree of social responsibility in return for that high investment made by the taxpayers. There is no information available to the Australian Government even on the simple question of the number of doctors in Australia. The Commonwealth Department of Health gets its estimates of the numbers of doctors in Australia from, of all places, a journal put out by the drug trade and its mailing list. That is where the Department of Health gets its information about the number of doctors in Australia. 
On the question of doctors ' incomes, of course, considerable information is available but there is a dearth of serious information about this problem. From information available, it can be seen, first of all, that doctors' incomes are expected after July to rise to an average of well over $80,000 a year. 
-That is gross,  Senator. A  medical source told the  Age  newspaper recently that after the rise, most general practitioners would earn a taxable income of between $30,000 and $50,000 a year. That is earnings as distinct from the other practices which go on and to which I will refer in a minute. Between 1956 and 1976, according to the survey by the Melbourne University, the average medical income increased by 384.4 per cent. The period of highest relative increase occurred between 1976 and the present day.  Senator Peter  Baume has made himself something of an authority on this matter not only here but also in New Zealand. He estimates that in New South Wales those figures up to 1 976 got close to $70,000 in terms of gross income. He is reported in the  AMA Gazette  as saying:  lt raises some very real questions about our capacity as a community to sustain such levels of expenditure on medical services. Certainly we cannot sustain that rate of increase in insurance payments. 
There are numerous other figures available.  Senator Baume  had this to say to the Congress of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science: 
The high levels pose serious questions about the equitable sharing  of resources  available for health care. 
They also pose serious problems about the equitable sharing of resources amongst the Australian community under the Fraser Government.  Senator Baume  continued: 
The problem of medical costs was compounded by Australia's system which rewarded action rather than results or value. Our medical men are paid more if they do more. 
According to  Senator Baume,  New South Wales had a tonsillectomy rate nine times that of Sweden or the United Kingdom. These figures are available.  Dr Margarey,  the former  President  of the AMA, warned doctors in the  AMA Gazette  of July 1979 about abuses in services which were leading to this sort of situation. The difficulty is that the facts show that doctors constitute 40 per cent of the highest income earners in this country. They are costly to the community in terms of their education; they set no example in terms of social responsibility in return for those high incomes. 
Let me deal with a number of other matters of concern regarding the medical profession, and 1 wish to refer particularly to what can be described only as rackets- rackets which are perpetrated by very highly paid professional men in teaching hospitals in my own State of Victoria. Let me give some examples. At each of two teaching hospitals in Victoria with which I am personally familiar there is a slush fund contributed to by doctors out of which they draw benefits such as cars, overseas trips, and so on. That slush fund is compiled at taxpayers' expense. It is compiled in those teaching hospitals by doctors who are full time consultants employed on salaries of $40,000 plus perks and who have the right to private practice in those hospitals. That right of private practice encourages them to spend a lot of time in over-use of hospital facilities which are paid for by the State, by the Government. They use those facilities for services for which they charge fees. The fees they charge in respect of those uses of public services and the fees for over-consultations of patients referred to specialists and consultants by resident medical officers are paid into slush funds which are used to buy cars and overseas trips for already wealthy doctors. That happens at a number of teaching hospitals in Victoria. The slush fund at one hospital with which I am familiar stands at more than $500,000, and no tax is paid on that money. Doctors on high incomes are not only indulging themselves with very high incomes as against the rest of the community but are also using that extra tax-haven money, which is obtained at public expense and by abuse of the public health system of this country, to indulge in greater perks and rip-offs than one could imagine in circumstances where such high salaries are paid. 
This whole question of the over-use of services, which was referred to by  Dr Margarey,  in fact is an abuse of the health insurance system, an abuse of the public health system of this country, and is being carried out by highly paid professional men who are the most costly people to educate in terms of taxpayers' input into their education. In the limited time at my disposal I cannot deal with these things in very great detail, but they are matters of great concern. In talking about an incomes policy in a country such as this, as I said before, the Government cannot on the one hand charge ordinary people more for health insurance, attempt to reduce real wages constantly, and reduce family income standards, and at the same time have insufficient guts as a government to stand up to a system which allows these sorts of incomes to be made without any firm hand or direction. The Government cannot allow these sorts of abuses to go on. It is a corruption of the social fabric of this society, a corruption which is being instigated by highly paid professionals who ought to know better in terms of any sense of ethics which a profession such as the medical profession might be expected to have. 
In five years this Government has produced no real incomes policy. It runs in a cowardly fashion from the hand of the medical profession but stands up to the poor and impoverished of this country on the question of incomes. It has produced no industrial relations policy after five years. It has no coherent view of any of these things. The Government is presided over by that dreary presbyter from Nareen, with the intellectual vitality of a used Wettex, who goes on about his penny-pinching housekeeping but allows these sorts of rackets to develop in what is becoming increasingly a rotten society because these things are not being attended to by Government policies. On the question of doctors, Bernard Shaw, who knew all this, had this to say in 1 890 in the preface to  The Doctor's Dilemma: 
The test to which all methods of treatment are finally brought is whether they are lucrative to doctors or not. 
He went on: 
Just as the object of a trade union under existing conditions must finally be nol to improve the technical quality of the work done by its members but to secure a living wage for them, so the object of the medical profession . . . is to secure an income for the private doctor: . . . 
In Australia doctors are doing pretty well. As I have said, it is an abdication of public responsibility by a particular group in this community which draws into very clear perspective the priorities of this Government- a soft hand with the medicos, a stern hand with the poor and impoverished. That is the philosophy of Nareen and it is the philosophy which engenders all the policies of this Government in relation to incomes and industrial relations. Five years of barren, thoughtless government on these issues leads to the moral decay of a society such as ours, with an increasing lack of social cohesion and diversion within our society. It is a very real problem. A crisis of leadership is being presided over by this Government. It is for that reason that the Opposition has raised today the relationship between incomes of one group in the community and those of another, and the growing discrepancies between those two groups. In that respect I have used the medical profession as an illustration. There are other illustrations which will be referred to by my colleagues in the course of this debate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Senator Button  sought leave to incorporate two documents in  Hansard.  Is leave granted? 
-The first document, which relates to after-Budget incomes, was tabled by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). 
It was compiled in  Mr Hayden  's office. 
It is consistent also with  Mr Risstrom  's figures. The second document was compiled by the Parliamentary Library. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents reads as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197909120_17_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197909120_18_1.jpg"></graphic>

My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer the Minister to an answer he gave yesterday relating to supplies of avgas. In paragraph 3 of the answer he said: 
. the latest information we have is that NIOC - 
That is the National Iranian Oil Co.-  may be in a position to determine export availability around October/November this year. 
In paragraph 5 the Minister said that the Minister for National Development:  had commenced discussions with the oil companies with a view to increasing Australia 's refinery capacity - 
Is it correct that there was a submission put to Cabinet on Monday of this week, before the Minister answered this question, in which it was made quite clear firstly that the possibilities of supplies of avgas from Iran were remote indeed, contrary to the answer given in paragraph 3 yesterday? Secondly, was it also not made quite clear in the Cabinet submission that supplies of avgas from Australian refineries would not be available for at least 1 8 months to two years? In view of those facts is not the answer the Minister gave yesterday totally misleading in relation to this important and urgent matter? 
-This statement, which I have had the opportunity of reading briefly, is euphemistically described by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  us a statement on industrial relations and wages policy. If there are two things that are not coherently explained in this statement they are, firstly, an industrial relations policy, and secondly, a wages policy. This document is a typical document from the Liberal Government, lt is a cynical, political tirade to which we are treated from time to time when the Government feels its fortunes are going particularly bad and it wants to whip up a bit of a diversion in the community in order, it hopes, to consolidate its electoral position. The first thing that one can say very clearly about the statement is that it does not come from  Mr Street,  the Minister for Industrial Relations. It is a characteristic statement using industrial relations as a cynical exercise in trying to divert attention from the major problems of this 
Government which are the problems of economic mismanagement, broken promises, the general question of credibility and the deep social divisions which the policies of this Government have engendered in this country. 
As I have said, every now and again, we get the big stick, the huff and puff approach about these issues, seemingly to coincide with the phases of the moon or something of that kind. I noticed during the parliamentary recess that some expert on biorhythms was in Australia and warned us that we should be very careful to take note of the biorhythms of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at certain stages of the year. Of course, in my view it is not his biorhythms about which we ought to be concerned; it is his mind. He has clearly displayed the deficiencies of his mind in relation to this statement. I assert that if any honourable senator in this place were up the Amazon in the darkest jungles of Brazil and he read this statement, it would be quite clear to him from where it came. It came from the office of the Prime Minister of Australia. It does not come from the office of the Minister for Industrial Relations because, as I will point out, a lot of things in it are quite inconsistent with the views which have been expressed by the Minister for Industrial Relations over the year. If I can just illustrate that by referring to the document itself. On page 2 of the document, talking about the Government's industrial relations policy, it states: 
Our efforts have had considerable success. Since 1975, there has been a declining trend in the number of disputes and working days lost. 
It sets out the working days lost. The paragraph finishes with this extraordinary statement: 
However, it is very disturbing that the latest available information indicates that this decline has been reversed, and disputes are increasing. 
What an extraordinary admission to have in a document. It is saying: 'Our industrial relations policies have solved the problems. They have worked for a while '. Of course, they have worked for a while because the Prime Minister broke his promise that unemployment would decline in Australia from February 1978. Of course, there was a decline in industrial disputes because of the high levels of unemployment which exist in this country. It is only now that there is a higher level of industrial disputes because in spite of the high unemployment the standard of living of the families of this country has been so eroded by this Government's policies that unions have increasingly resorted in more recent months to industrial disputation and involvement in industrial disputation. 1 just draw attention to that aspect of the statement because it clarifies in a crystal clear way the indecision and uncertainty that there is about the whole thing. Let me illustrate what I mean by a cynical approach to industrial relations by referring the Senate to something which happened in October 1977 when this Government, the Fraser Government was seeking an excuse for an early election. We had a lot of huff and puff about industrial relations at that time. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the professional loud mouth of Australian politics at that time, made this statement about industrial relations. He said: 
Sooner or later the Government has to face up to this issue and go to the Australian people and say: ' We are prepared to govern with courage and a sense of responsibility, but you have got to back us'. 
The Government could not stand up to the unions knowing it had only six months life in the Parliament. He said: 
We've got to know that we're going to stand up there, be firm, and know that we have a period of two or three years in front of us to try and get this country under control. 
That was in October 1977, just on two years ago. The Government has had its two years now. According to this statement, there has been no improvement whatsoever in the industrial relations climate which at first improved, according to the Government, and now has declined, as indicated in the statement. If one contrasts the statement of  Mr Anthony-  as I have said the hard-line loudmouth on this issue- with the mealy mouth statements of the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  one sees something of the confusion of industrial relations in the Government's policies. Let me point out to the Senate where that all begins. It begins where the cause of all this Government's problems begin- with the Prime Minister. In 1975, when making what was then generally regarded as an important speech about industrial relations,  Mr Fraser  as shadow Minister for Industrial Relations had this to say: 
Our view is that satisfactory industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. Attitudes of mutual respect, of willingness to listen, to understand, to reason, and discuss in an informed way, are essential. These attitudes cannot be created by any party's industrial relations policy. 
He went on to say:   the L-NCP believed that rules - 
As he calls them- 
Must be established that carry consequences. 
He then announced what he calls the proposal for an Industrial Relations Bureau as a third arm of conciliation and arbitration. They are two quite inconsistent schizoid attitudes to an industrial relations policy. On one hand there is the soft option and, on the other, what he sees as the tough one. Of course, people are pardoned and must be pardoned for being confused about the totally cynical and, as I say, schizoid attitude of this Government on these questions. They are apparent through every statement which has been made in the life of this Government. They are apparent in the personalities of the Minister, ineffective as he is, on the one hand and the hard liners of the Government on the other. What this statement amounts to again is the use of what one might call the scapegoat syndrome in Australian politics. This was a technique very much favoured by the late  President  Sukarno of Indonesia. It was called Sukarnoism; in Australia it is called Fraserism. When things are going bad for his Government, he can seek to divert the electorate by talking about something altogether different. On this occasion, as on all previous occasions, it is industrial relations. 
Let us look at some of the confusions which arise in the application of the scapegoat syndrome in this Government's policies. First of all, throughout the last four years there have been repeated statements that unions and wage claims are responsible for the Government's economic difficulties, or if it is not the unions, it is the Arbitration Commission or anybody other than the Government. When it came to power in 1975 in the manner in which it did, it took upon itself the obligation to deal with all these matters. It is an obligation it has never had the guts to discharge on any of these issues. Let me illustrate that particularly by reference to what the Prime Minister had to say only on 16 August and 19 August this year in interviews with the  Australian.  After four years of talking about wages and the Arbitration Commission being the problem and the cause of inflation, he stated: 
I suppose wages have been in a sense neutral in terms of their effect on inflation. 
That is what the Leader of this Government- our leader in this country- had to say after four years of saying exactly the opposite. He went on to say: 
There has been very little wage drift outside the Commission's determinations, much less than I think most people would believe. 
Talking to the  Age  in Melbourne a week later, on 25 August, the Prime Minister had this to say: 
Wage adjustments have been greater than we wantedgreater than we expected. 
That is a totally different answer from the one he gave the  Australian  a week before, and those answers are totally different from the allegations in this statement which the Government has now brought down. There is an extraordinary confusion of mind. How can the poor wage earners be anything other than confused when they suddenly read the  Australian  and find that their claims have not been responsible for inflation at all, that they have never got anything outside the Arbitration Commission, and then a week later they read something totally inconsistent with that. How will people believe in a government led by this man? It is an extraordinary characteristic of this statement; right throughout there is a desire to blame anybody else but himself which, by the way, is a particularly immoral position for a public figure to adopt. It is not surprising from the present Prime Minister. The depths of public immorality to which this country has sunk under the leadership of this man are displayed, of course, in the man himself, in his public utterances on matters of this kind. 
In the course of the document the Minister then goes on to deal with some of the initiatives of this Government, as he calls them. Let us look at the initiatives of the Government which the statement regards as important. First of all, there is the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau. Two years later, the reports of the Industrial Relations Bureau show what it has been up to. The Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in dealing with the first report of the Bureau really adopts, if I might say so, the mealymouthed approach. He details a number of matters with which the Bureau has dealt and states that a million dollars has been recovered by the Industrial Relations Bureau for employees entitled to receive full award wages. That is in the exercise of the function of the old arbitration inspectorate. He then says that the Bureau is answering a number of inquiries and is investigating a number of complaints. 
The fact of the matter is that in the whole period of its existence- at great expense- the Industrial Relations Bureau has really done nothing in terms of the industrial relations scene in this country. It has investigated complaints and engaged itself with some 120 prosecutions against employers for breaches of awards. As is set out in the statement, it has investigated a number of complaints about unions but nothing has ever happened except in one case which occurred in Melbourne and which involved a prosecution of the Melbourne City Council. That was a prosecution nicely timed to coincide with the Victorian State election. Of course, that has been the use to which the Industrial Relations Bureau has been put. What happened to that one prosecution of an employer for allegedly victimising a member of a union, or a person who refused to join a union or take action in accordance with a union strike? That case went to the Federal 
Court. It was thrown out by the judge on the basis that it was brought in a manner which was technically deficient. It is apparent from the judgment that in terms of industrial relations policy it was undesirable, anyway. 
The Minister for Industrial Relations talks about that as an important initiative of this Government and he talks about the secret ballot legislation in respect of which a number of unions have been granted exemptions, so making nonsense of the whole legislation. He talks about the legislation for the National Labour Consultative Council in respect of which this Government made the petty-minded decision to exclude white collar unions at the establishment of that body; he talks about the trade practices legislation as if to indicate that that was a great and important step in the industrial relations policy of this Government. It is very interesting to note that the Trade Practices Commission, which had its Act amended to deal with industrial matters, in the last two years has developed a very sophisticated arrangement with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the national employers policy body to refer any disputes which come to the Commission and which have an industrial relations content to those two bodies for resolution. 
That is what the Trade Practices Commission thinks of this Government's legislation. This great record of bandaid initiatives and huff and puff which has gone on for four years in the field of industrial relations really amounts to nothing. The Government has made no attempt to review the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in a thorough way; it tacks on bits here and there when it thinks it suits it politically. It has made no attempt to arrive at a coherent wages policy and it has made no attempt to grapple with the major issues of industrial relations which were referred to by the former Leader of the Opposition and present Prime Minister in his statement in 1975 when he seemed to have some greater appreciation of the real issues involved. 
The second aspect of this paper is an effort to denigrate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  That is the second point of the statement on industrial relations, lt is really an extraordinary exercise. Of course, the purpose of using a statement on industrial relations to denigrate the Leader of the Opposition is that Malcolm Fraser is running a bit scared and it becomes important now to endeavour to denigrate the Leader of the Opposition at every opportunity. The vehicle for this denigration is to refer to the Austraiian Labor Party Conference which took place in Adelaide in July of this year. From his statement, the Prime Minister seems to find it quite extraordinary that the ALP should have in its platform and should have adopted at that conference a general statement relating to prices and incomes. That is referred to particularly in the statement which has been brought down by the Minister. It uses the following words:   . . with the understanding and co-operation of the trade union movement, develop and implement a policy which will encompass prices, wage incomes, non-wage incomes, taxation reform and elimination of tax avoidance  . . designed to achieve a more equitable distribution of wealth in Australian society. 
That statement is attacked because it brought in the newspapers of the day allegations of a rift between the  President  of the ACTU and the Leader of the Opposition. There is really no worthwhile attack in this statement on the substance of the platform which was adopted. The sooner that this Government starts to think about the relationship between prices and incomes, between wage incomes and non-wage incomes, between profits and wages and the elimination of tax avoidance as matters which are essential if one is to derive some form of social consensus about these uses, the better. The point which the statement does not mention is the need for the Commonwealth Government to obtain constitutional power so that it can impose a more uniform system of industrial relations throughout Australia. That was inserted in the Australian Labor Party platform at the Adelaide Conference and it is a matter of fundamental importance. Even the Prime Minister seemed to grasp it a few months ago when he was desperately looking for some new initiative in the industrial relations field. He suggested that perhaps the States might refer powers on those matters to the Commonwealth Government. This seems to have been backed away from now, although it is a matter for further discussion. 
The whole purport of the statement, as I said earlier, is to distract attention from the Government's failures in relation to economic policy, from the abandonment of a number of promises which the Government has made, and to try again to divert attention to industrial relations as an issue in respect of which the Government can make tough noises and take no initiatives. That is the record of this Government in the five years that it has now been in office. I refer honourable senators to a view put by  Mr George  Polites, the secretary of the National Employers Policy Committee, on this very question of politics and industrial relations. When  Mr Anthony,  in 1977, said that this Government needed a mandate, as he put it, to stand up to the unions- a piece of irresponsible waffle of the first order-  Mr Polites  was asked this question: 
Could you explain to us as simply as you can how an election a year ahead of time is going to help curb industrial unrest? 

 Mr Polites replied: 
I didn't know that there was going to be an election a year ahead of time. If you know that I am pleased to hear it. I don't think it's got anything to do with industrial unrest. 
If honourable senators opposite will not listen, as a government, to the overtures made by bodies like the Australian Council of Trade Unions and to the National Labour Consultative Council, which the Government set up as a piece of rhetoric and nothing else, on these important issues perhaps they should listen to the national employers. They are as concerned about this sort of huff and puff stuff that honourable senators opposite go on with as anybody else in this country. National employers are concerned because from day to day they have to negotiate with unions and reach sensible and coherent agreements with them. They know that the way to the settlement of industrial disputes in this country is the way which has always succeeded- by negotiation. There is not one dispute which has been settled during the life of the Fraser Government by any initiative of Malcolm Fraser. Not one. Many have been exacerbated by his actions. The only disputes which have been settled by initiatives have been settled by initiatives of the employers or the Australian Council of Trade Unions. There is no secret about the popular success of the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Bob  Hawke, as a public figure. He has very high public ratings, as distinct from Malcolm Fraser who has very low public ratings. The reason for this is that Bob Hawke stands for conciliation in this country and Malcolm Fraser stands for confrontation. 
People do not like that sort of confrontation. We are getting another example of it tonight because of the werewolves in the Liberal Party who howl when the moon comes out. They think: 'We will wave the big stick and impress our back benchers and the old ladies in white tennis shoes in the Warringah branch of the Party and show them how tough we are in dealing with these problems. ' Of course, it is the most phoney political exercise which any Government has engaged in in the history of this country. It is the most phoney activity and the most cynical political exercise. Any government which is genuinely concerned about arriving at a sensible, consensual solution to these problems ought to display totally different attitudes. 
I conclude by referring honourable senators to two very important statements which this Government is not prepared to take any note of when it goes on with the sort of stuff that is in this statement. The first is the view of the Jackson Committee, which is something the Government has not taken much account of. Perhaps this passage is worth referring to. The Committee states: 
Changes in decision-making processes should be attempted only with the willingness and full involvement of management, employees and unions . . . There can be no progress in an atmosphere of bad industrial relations or of job insecurity . . . Unions for the most part have conservative traditions and find it no easier, perhaps harder to adapt than do firms. Their difficulties are little understood by managements and governments. 
That refers to this Government in particular. That statement can be found at pages 13 and 14 of the Jackson report. I commend it, as well as a lot of other wisdom in government reports which is being ignored, to the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
General Business taking precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. 
I do not wish to detain the Senate too long, if I can avoid it, but on 2 1 August this year a statement was made in the Budget Speech relating to overseas students in Australia. On 29 August I asked the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  a question about the overseas student charge which was imposed by the Budget and which, according to the Budget, will net $6m in fees from overseas students. On the occasion of asking that question, I sought from the Minister information about what the Budget Speech meant in relation to this issue, what investigations had been made about it, what would be involved in terms of hardship to students and a variety of matters of that kind. 
I am not a normal source of nourishment as is  Senator Carrick.  I received the answer: 
Honourable senators will know that Australia alone, 1 think, of all countries has not been charging fees to overseas students. Of course, there was a flow of students to Australia attracted by that fact. It is natural, therefore, that there should be some kind of charge. 
It was unnatural for many years, but it is natural now, according to the Minister. He continued: 
The details have not been fully or precisely defined. I will respond happily to  Senator Button  in terms of the three parts of the question to which he has sought an answer. I will try to do so as soon as possible. 
That was on 29 August. I then asked a supplementary question whether, in view of the hardship involved for some students, the matter could be dealt with very quickly. The Minister said: 

 Senator Button may not have heard correctly. My final remarks were that I would do so as soon as possible. 
Yesterday in the Senate I again asked the Minister a question in relation to this matter. In answering that question, which sought particular details about the type of students who would be affected and so on, the Minister said: 
I hope in the early future to be able to introduce into this Parliament substantial details which will cover all the matters raised by  Senator Button. 
Of course, the operative word in the Minister's statement is hope, because when the facts are clear about the mess that this Government has got itself into over this issue, it is seen that hope springs eternal in the Minister's heart. It was only last year or early this year that he told this Senate that no fees for tertiary institutions would be imposed in the year 1 980. 1 understand that the device to get round this particular situation, which the Government is now suggesting, is the imposition of a visa fee on overseas students. Students will pay the equivalent of university or colleges of advanced education fees as suggested in the Budget and pay it as a visa fee in order to get  Senator Carrick  off the hook with his promise made not long ago that no fees for tertiary institutions would be imposed in the coming year. 
The decision on this matter typifies the Government's messy and wing and a prayer sort of approach to problems both in education and revenue raising. During his Budget speech, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made the following announcement: 
Overseas Student Charge 
Commencing with the 1980 academic year, private overseas students who enrol at an Australian university or college of advanced education for the first time, or who change courses, will bc charged between $ 1,500 and $2,500 per year towards the cost of their tuition. 
This charge is consistent with overseas practice where foreign students attending tertiary institutions are required to contribute to the cost of their education. The move will also assist in alleviating the current excess demand for places available to overseas students. 
I interpolate here to point out that that is not the view of any university in Australia, but the Government did not bother to check up with the universities before that statement was made. The statement goes on: 
This charge is estimated to yield about $6m in 1979-80 and will help to defray the costs- presently met in full by Australian taxpayers- of educating private overseas students in Australia. 
Full details of these new arrangements will be announced after consultations have been held with major source countries. 
Of course, we do not know what private overseas students are. We do not know who the students who change courses are for the purpose of this exercise and we do not know a variety of other matters which are vitally relevant and of concern not only to overseas students in Australia but also to student populations generally. Let me indicate the numbers of students who are affected. In universities in Australia some 8,500 to 9,000 students are enrolled at present. In CAEs some 1,860 students are enrolled from overseas of whom 1,454 are from Asian countries and, in particular, 769 from Malaysia. I give these figures because it might assist the Minister to make a statement on the matter in answer to the questions which he has been asked. In high schools there are 1 ,432 private students and four sponsored students. The Treasurer in his Budget Speech made two things quite clear. Firstly, he made it clear that the Government is committed to raising $6m from this source during the year 1980. Secondly, he made it quite clear in his Budget Speech that no consultations have taken place with overseas countries from where these students come. The unilateral decision was made and it was then intended to have consultations with the expectation of raising $6m in fees from this source. This is ludicrous. This reminds me of the Budgets of  Mr Lynch,  which he himself described as somewhat rubbery in the figures which they included. 
In the three weeks since the Budget was delivered, several other facts about this decision of the Government have become quite clear. Firstly, when the Government made the decision it had no idea how it was going to define the concept of private student. Private student almost sounds like a pejorative expression. These days when all students are in a sense public students, the expression private student does not sound too good. The concept was included in the Budget Speech but was totally undefined. The Government has been unable to state whether the term includes not only students sponsored by Australian Government aid projects but also students in a number of other categories to which I wish to refer. For example, are students sponsored by community aid groups such as Rotary and the Freedom from Hunger Campaign included in the Treasurer's statement? Are New Zealand students who are entitled to permanent residence in Australia the moment they arrive included in this Budget figure in relation to overseas students? Are they private overseas students when, once they get there, they enjoy the other conditions of citizenship which Australians enjoy? Are students whose costs are paid because they were granted university postgraduate awards or university scholarships included? Are students who are sponsored by the United Nations included? What about the children of diplomats? Are they private overseas students? What about external students, particularly students from Papua New Guinea who are enrolled in Queensland universities? Will they have to pay fees? What about students who are studying here under exchange programs with other universities? What arrangements will be made about them? Of course, the Government had no idea at the time this statement was brought down as to the answers to any of these questions. We know that it had no idea because people from the Department of Education are trotting around Australia now trying to get the answers. Nor did they have any idea what the expression 'a change of course ' meant. When the Budget statement refers to a student who changes course having to pay fees henceforth, what does that expression mean? For example, does it mean that a student currently doing his Higher School Certificate with the anticipation that he will have free tertiary tuition in Australia changes his course by moving from Higher School Certificate to the university or a college of advanced education? 
In the three weeks since this decision was made, the Government has refused to clarify the position for thousands of overseas students who are already studying here and who potentially will be affected by this decision. As all honourable senators know, they are very concerned about it. The Government has refused to state whether, for the purpose of levying these new fees, a change of course will include a change from a master's degree to a Ph.D, particularly where universities require students to enrol in masters' courses even though the students' sole aims are to obtain a Ph.D. 
Does the expression 'a change of course' include enrolment in degree courses that have a prerequisite of completion of subjects in other undergraduate facilities? Does it include students who set out to qualify as teachers by doing an undergraduate degree and who will on completion have to enrol for a Bachelor of Education degree? Are students included who, because of quotas, enrolled in a course which was not necessarily their first choice for the purpose of obtaining high enough marks, and transfer to the course that they are actually wanting to do; for example, people who want to do law but who do a year of arts and then transfer, or people who want to do medicine but who do a year of science and then transfer? Is there to be particular discrimination against those students in relation to these matters? 
There is a chronic inability on behalf of the Government to define what these concepts mean. That is because the Government has no clear idea of how it will raise this $6m. It has not really thought about it. The attitude is taken: 'We will cut a bit from the education budget. Who are the most voteless victims we can find in order to indulge in this book entry exercise?' Of course, they are overseas students so there is a promise that by fixing these arbitrary fees one can raise $6m on the assumption that the same number of students will be here as there are now. That is an extraordinary assumption to make in this context.' On those sorts of assumptions we can set out to fix up another Fraser Budget with this minuscule figure of $6m, and a rubbery Budget figure it is indeed. 

 - Senator, you will have an opportunity to state your attitude. I wait with bated breath. 
-At this time of night, you get what you deserve. 
You can go home,  Senator. You  are not elevating either the debate or the scenery. Of course, the other matter which is important is that this is another example of the money grasping attitudes that motivate the highest spending, highest tax government this country has seen. There are no considerations of principle in relation to this issue and no considerations of equity or commitment to development aid. None of these things at all has motivated this policy. I wonder if it was considered by the Department of Foreign Affairs in any detail before it was embarked upon. Then one gets an extraordinary sort of statement from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who is a bit sensitive to this issue from the point of view of his Department. In a statement issued on 28 August, seven days after the Budget, he had this to say: 
A key element of Australia's new policy is the abandonment of previous numerical limits and the development of criteria to increase total numbers of overseas students within the available capacity of Australian institutions and without displacing Australian students. 
I do not want to detain the Senate tonight but if any honourable senators on the Government side next week can tell me what that gobbledegook means, I will be very grateful. I will even stay for the adjournment debate to listen. Australia will provide unlimited places for wealthy overseas students at the expense of the less well-to-do. Is that what  Mr MacKellar  means? That is the implication of his statement. What sort of justification can there be for that? One matter which the Government clearly has not considered is the situation of overseas students studying at high schools in the expectation of getting into Australian tertiary institutions. Many honourable senators will have received letters from students concerned, as I have. I wish to quote from only one, which is a letter dated 5 September 1979. The student, Lee Mei Wah, stated: 
The Australian Higher School Certificate, for which we are now preparing (in eight weeks time) is not recognised by our home governments. To return home at the end of this year, before even entering university, will mean one year completely wasted. 
We realise that the Government is entitled to impose such fees; what we are seeking is that we not be asked to incur this crippling fee which would have prevented us from even considering coming here in the first place had we been forewarned of it. We have understandably not prepared ourselves for any fees, and they will constitute a burden beyond the capacity of our families. 
We therefore suggest that the introduction of fees for private overseas students not come into operation before the 1981 intake. This will provide duc warning for further intending students: it will also allow for us, who came here under the same understanding as the current tertiary level students, to enjoy the same conditions. 
That student makes an important point and I hope the Minister will consider it. How can a government with any concern for equity and justice implement a policy that has that son of consequence? It seems that the Government is not concerned about those sorts of matters. Another matter the Government did not consider and has no idea about is the extent to which the provision of this free education to overseas students was a form of indirect aid to developing countries. Neither the Government nor the tertiary institutions has any statistics about the socio-economic groups from which these students come in their own countries. Honourable senators will get telegrams and letters from university student representative councils and student bodies saying that the average income of these families is of the order of $9,000. 1 am not sure how these student bodies know that because none of the universities have that information. Some people say they have done private polls among students. I am not sure that in any sense that information can be relied on. It is not really readily available. 
Many of these students are obviously wealthy and insofar as the Budget Speech was directed at them, it is probably a reasonable imposition. Many of them come from places where discrimination exists. Of course, it is not the job of the Australian education system to solve in Australia the racial problems of countries such as Malaysia, but as all honourable senators know, the students do come from countries like that. When the Government announced its policy, it clearly had no idea of what its implementation would really mean. Its eye was on the $6m, with no consideration for how the system would work or whether it would cause real hardship to a number of people. No meaningful discussions were held with representatives of the students or the tertiary institutions. Certainly the scheme the Government was proposing was not put before the educational authorities, otherwise the Government would not be so mute about how this system will work. As I have said, at the moment it has emissaries running around madly seeking information on how the implementation of the decision will be brought about so as to realise the $6m. By its own admission, there has been no consultation with governments of other countries. 
In conclusion, I will make the position of the Opposition quite clear on this issue. Our first commitment, as a political party, is the provision of tertiary education to as many Australian students as possible who qualify academically, irrespective of socio-economic background. Of course, this commitment has to be balanced in any political party by a desire for Australia to pull its weight in the development of less developed countries, particularly the South East Asian countries and Papua New Guinea. The reality of trying to bring together these two commitments- which I would have thought would be basically bipartisan commitments- is that Australia, if it is to prosper, must increase its role and trade with Asia. The Labor Party would provide free places for overseas students in so far as this assisted the development of poorer countries and on the basis of inter-governmental negotiations. The Labor Party does not oppose the imposition of fees on overseas students well able to afford them. There is no information available to the Government on this issue and no information on which it could base this decision. We are opposed to a decision that will create hardship in its transition, does nothing to promote the interests of poor students in other countries and represents a real cut in one of the most worthwhile forms of aid that we have probably given. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the Minister for Special Trade Representations said in New Zealand recently that Australia was seeking oil from half a dozen countries, that it would buy it anywhere it could and that availability rather than price was the overriding consideration? Did he say that Australia wanted oil now and not in five years time? 
I ask whether this rather disparate statement expresses the correct situation with respect to our supply position or was the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  correct when he said in his Press statement of 14 September this year that apart from avgas and distillate distribution problems the 'oil supply situation is satisfactory'? Did  Mr Newman  also say that there has been a tendency for difficulties in the oil supply position to be exaggerated? Was he referring to  Mr Garland  when he accused people of exaggerating the oil supply situation? 
I refer the Leader of the Government to the many previous answers in the Senate relating, as he would put it, to indices of business confidence and revival in the economy. I also refer the Minister to the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey released on Monday which showed that business confidence and expectations in the manufacturing industry are declining steadily. The Minister will be aware that this survey was taken before this year's Budget which on its' own figures admits 1980 will see Australia with higher inflation and higher unemployment. Is the Government concerned about this apparent decline in business confidence in the economy? If so, is it considering any measures such as a mini-Budget in an attempt to reverse this trend? 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacities as Leader of the 
Government in the Senate and Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to a question which I asked him on 22 August 1979 in which I sought clarification of the Prime Minister's views expressed in the  Australian  on 18 August 1 979. The Prime Minister had said: 
There has been very little wage drift outside the Commission's determinations- much less than I think most people would believe.  1 remind the Minister that he undertook to get a response from the Prime Minister as to the discrepancy between that statement and what the Government has been saying for the last four years. Has the Minister yet obtained clarification of that issue and can he provide me with an answer? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I regret that a copy of this report has not been made available to the Opposition. This makes it very difficult to comment upon it. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Opposition has not had the opportunity to study this report which has just been brought down. I think it is more commonly and simply known as the Ralph Committee report. This is a very important matter in respect of Australian health consumers, if I can call them that. The recommendations contained in this report, as reported in the Press and as otherwise rumoured, are really rather horrifying in respect of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme as we have known it in the past. The first observation I make is simply that the Pharmacutical Benefits Advisory Committee has been asked by the Present Government in the last week or so to cut $20m-worth of currently prescribed drugs off the free drug list. 
-I take it that in making that perceptive interjection the honourable senator is referring to his old friend Milton Friedman. 
The honourable senator knows perfectly well what the free drug list is and I do not think we need debate that any further now in philosophical terms. He knows that it exists and that recommendations about it have been made to the Government. The proposal which is contained in the Ralph Committee report really changes the whole basis of the payment for drugs very much against the health consumer. The suggestion taken up in the report is that there should be a prescribed level of Commonwealth contribution towards the cost of each drug and that, over and above that level, the matter should be left, in the jargon of the drug industry, to market forces. One of the consequences of leaving the price of drugs to market forces is expected to be that there will be a lot of competition to produce drugs and another that prices will rise considerably. 
One suggestion that already has flowed from the recommendations of the Ralph Committee is that Australians should insure not only for normal health cover, whether hospital or medical, but also against the cost of more expensive drugs which may be prescribed in the event of their becoming seriously ill. 
These are matters that we should perhaps discuss at greater length when we have had an opportunity to peruse the report. I merely at this stage draw the attention of the Senate to this very radical change which has been suggested- I use the word 'radical' with the greatest circumspection- to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. It is something which should be closely examined by members of the Parliament before the recommendations are acted upon. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Might I say, first of all, that I concur with much of what the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  said in his statement when tabling this report. I also appreciate his courtesy in making a copy of the report available at least a short time before it was tabled in Parliament. I do not want in any sense to sound churlish because the Minister has drawn attention to the fact that the report represents a new departure in the style of the report. The Minister has expressed some degree of satisfaction about the way in which that change of style has been represented, but I do want to make some comments about it just in the hope that in the next annual report there may still be some further improvements. As the Minister has pointed out, and as we note with approval, the Act now provides for a setting out of the research policy of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. That is referred to at page 12 of the document under the heading 'Reporting Executive policies '. 
It is a cause of regret to us, however, that a more comprehensive report could not have been produced on this occasion. It one looks at page 36 one sees that regular reviews are conducted by the Executive. Perhaps those reviews could be reported on as they are conducted. That would be of great benefit to the Parliament, if they were reported on in that way, and it would be of great benefit to the scientific community generally in terms of communication and understanding of what the CSIRO is doing in terms of its research program. It is gratifying that the priorities in energy research, for example, are set out quite clearly at page 43 of the report. It is perhaps a pity that in other areas the priorities were not set out in the same way as they have been in relation to energy research. 
I would also draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the Estimates committee report dealing with CSIRO indicates that fisheries and oceanography is one of the few areas to get a sizable increase in the CSIRO budget, an increase of about $ 1 m for fisheries research. Again, in relation to that, it would have been helpful to have in this report- I think it would have been possible even at the time this report was drawn up- some clear indication of and discussion of priorities and policy in the annual report as it relates to this area of fisheries. I just happen to believe it is a very important area, and it would have been helpful to have a discussion about priorities. 
I turn briefly to organisational matters as they relate to the CSIRO, and again make the point, which has been made here often enough, that there is a great deal of concern about integrating CSIRO research effort with the needs of industry and the needs of flexibility of the various divisions and, more importantly, a need for staff mobility. There has been very little discussion of these matters in the organisation section of the report. I would have thought that the annual report would be a good place to air these matters. As anyone who has any knowledge of the CSIRO is aware, these are matters of constant discussion amongst the senior officers of the CSIRO. On page 57 of the report it is recorded that a consultative council has been formed, which has formed committees. These are set out in a list on page 57 of the report. 
One would hope that the terms and conditions of service would be considered by that consultative council because, as I have said, they are matters of great concern to CSIRO officers at all levels. I would also hope that the consultative council would give some attention to considering the issues of early retirement, part time employment at a certain level of CSIRO research activity and at a certain age, and also the question of secondment in and out of the Organisation to industry, universities and so on. The Opposition thinks that these flexible policies are vital to the work of the CSIRO in explaining its policies to industry and in universities, and in arriving at a degree of mutual understanding about the work which is being done by senior research scientists and, more importantly, freeing up the scientific research community in Australia and encouraging more flexible and profitable relationships between those various communities, which are still very much allocated into separate boxes, as it were. That is a situation which the Opposition thinks highly undesirable and probably costly in the long term. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) How many: (a) university and college graduates; and (b) school leavers, who completed their studies in 1978, have been recruited into (i) the third; and (ii) the fourth, division of the public service. 
How many: (a) university and college graduates; and (b) school leavers, who completed their studies in 1978, have been employed in each Government Department on: (a ) a full-time; ( b) a part-time; and (c) a casual basis. 
-On behalf of  Senator Rae  and others who have been fussed about this issue for about three years, I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I do not want to enter into the lofty debate in which  Senator Davidson  has just indulged, but I do want to say that I, as other senators, have been approached by the bicycle lobby in Parliament House about accommodation for bicycles and particularly about the adequacy of the accommodation that has been provided under the arches to which  Senator Davidson  referred. I would like to express the concern of that lobby and my own concern that appropriate accommodation should be provided for people in Parliament House who ride bicycles. This could well be developed as an arm of the Government's energy policy, probably the strongest arm, if it were developed in terms of accommodation for bicycles. 
Health and energy, thank you. I think it is important for the staff who are concerned and I hope that action will be taken by the appropriate authorities to see that the silly decision is reversed and that accommodation is provided. 
-I understand that,  Senator. 
I understand that  Senator Davidson  is concerned to dissociate himself from a silly policy decision. I appreciate that and I am in accord with him in his dissociation. I urge the appropriate Minister to take quick action to see that that decision is rectified. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) To what  persons  has the payment  of  financial assistance been authorised under section 141A or 14 IB  of the  Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1901 in the period 1976-78. 
What has been the amount  of  the payment in the case  of  each  of  these persons. 
Of what organisation  was  each  of  these persons a member. 
Who were the: (a) counsel; and (b) solicitor acting  for  each  of  these persons in the proceedings in question. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer the Minister to the announcement by the Prime Minister on 1 5 February 1 978 establishing the Bowen Inquiry concerning public duty and private interest of members of parliament. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that Cabinet has now considered the report of the Bowen Inquiry? When will this much-delayed report be tabled in the Parliament? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I would have thought that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  might explain to the Senate, at this stage when all our memories need refreshing, the relevance of this particular exercise to the Australian Parliament. I do recall it, but I would have thought we would have some explanation of what considerations, in the view of the Attorney, arise from this review. If I might say so, I was intrigued by the Attorney's comment that it was a review conducted by himself and the Attorney-General of Western Australia because, with the greatest respect, I found it a rather superficial document on a reading of the report which was brought down. I am a little concerned also about the fact that there are no comments in the document about the application of the laws which apply in various States. Perhaps that was not the intention of the original review, but it seems a very sterile document without some reference to the applications. 
In the Territories, yes, it does. What intrigues me is what happens now as a result of this particular exercise. I wonder, for example, whether the Attorney has considered referring the question of the law relating to public assemblies to the Law Reform Commission with a view to trying to get some uniformity on, as it turns out, this very important question in the context in which this whole matter arose. The other matter to which I wish to refer is the reference to the South Australian law, and to make a suggestion that it might have been desirable if the Attorney-General had expressed a view on what law should apply in relation to this matter, and whether the South Australian law was perhaps not the most appropriate law to apply. 
In conclusion, might I draw the attention of the Senate to the summary which is provided at the end of the document and, in answer to  Senator Missen  's question particularly to the law which applies in relation to the two territories. May I also draw to the attention of the Senate not only the very restrictive application of the law but also the very restrictive law which exists in Western Australia and, of course, the knowledge that we have of its application in that particular State. I regard it as an important statement because it has turned out to be important in terms of the public interest of this country. I would have hoped that some recommendations or some comment would have flowed from the 
Attorney-General as to what might be done in relation to this whole matter and particularly what might have been done in relation to some degree of uniformity in the law through a Commonwealth agency. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The question referable to leave for  Senator Button  has been put and passed. Leave has been granted. Any further reference to the matter must be by leave.  Senator Missen,  do you seek leave to add some remarks? 
Leave granted. 
-by leave-I want briefly to support some of the remarks made by my colleague,  Senator Walsh,  in relation to this matter. I do so because it relates to an industry which the Opposition sees as having great importance and significance. The proclamation of a 200 nautical mile limit for any purpose has very wide-ranging implications. I refer briefly to some of those implications which were indicated by the judgment of the High Court of Australia in relation to the Seas and Submerged Lands Act which came into force on 3 December 1973. In dealing with the Act,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, Chief Justice of the High Court, stated: 
Upon the enactment of the Constitution, any rights or powers which the former colonies might have had in the territorial sca, sea bed and air space or in the Continental Shelf and incline became vested in the Commonwealth. The emergence of Australia as an independent State confirmed this situation. 
The importance of the matter in economic terms was stressed by  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Murphy, when he said: 
The area of the Territorial Sea is tens of thousands of square kilometres. The area of the disputed Submarine Lands and sub-soils is millions of square kilometres. Their resources are probably worth thousands of billions of dollars. They belong to the Nation, not the States. The rights over them are vested in and exercisable by the Government of Australia on behalf of all the people of Australia. 
This is the first proclamation of a 200 nautical mile limit for any purpose and it relates to fishing. I shall deal with the importance of the question of resources by referring briefly to one or two documents which relate to those resources. First of all, I refer the Senate to a statement by  Dr Garth  Murphy who is head of the fish biology section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Division of Fisheries and Oceanography. In that statement, which appeared in the  Australian  of 15 August, he stated: 
. Australia's richest fishing area is undoubtedly the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
There are significant fish stocks there, as distinct from prawns, and they are comparable with North Sea resources. 
We're still not certain what's there, but they're big', he says. 'Soon we'll be surveying the Timor Sea area. No one knows what's there'. 
He went on to say: 
We found a very productive area on the North West Shelf, he says. 'We weren't the first, of course- it supports 125 Taiwanese pair trawlers. They've had good catches, though some of the stocks are being fished pretty low as a result'. 
Later in the same article there is a reference to this fact: 
Last year the industry caught 60,000 tonnes of fish- less than thai taken by Taiwanese trawlers off our northern coast. 
And incredibly Australia still imports half the fish it eatsmainly in the shape of frozen fish fingers. 
I refer the Senate briefly to the importance of those sorts of comments as I would urge the Senate to see them, lt is stated that we import half our fish mostly in the form of frozen fish fingers which, as any senator of any discernment will agree, are pretty awful. We have enormous potential fishing resources around the Australian coast. That was acknowledged, I think, by the report of November 1977 on the 200-mile Australian fishing zone by a working group established by the Australian Fisheries Council. I refer any honourable senator who is interested to the summary of the findings of that working group and more especially to the things which the working group claims. I particularly refer to paragraph 10 which reads: 
The Working Group agrees with industry that governments should undertake more resource evaluation work to provide a better data base on which industry can base commercial decisions. It notes that in some instances feasibility fishing, particularly with observers on board, is the least expensive way to generate hard data. It feels that access to cheaper vessels would provide a positive incentive to the Australian industry to undertake development work and will recommend that existing shipbuilding policy be modified. 
Following that report on 13 April 1978 the Fisheries Amendment Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives and subsequently passed. It is as a result of that legislation that the present document tabled by the Minister now comes into the Senate. The Fisheries Amendment Bill provided penalties of quite a high order for foreign boats fishing in the 200-mile limit. I find amazing the inadequacy of the response by the Government to the sorts of comments which were made by  Dr Murphy  of the CSIRO, by the working party on the 200-mile fishing zone and in association with the passing of the Fisheries Amendment Bill. The response is really totally ridiculous. All the time we are talking about the possibility of establishing new and viable industries in Australia. When we ask people what new and viable industries should be established, the first one that most people who have thought about it think of is fishing. 
By the accretion of the 200 nautical mile economic zone around Australia's coast, we take on board- if that is the appropriate nautical expression- an enormous area of resources as  Mr Justice  Murphy and others pointed out in the course of the High Court judgment on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. One is prompted to ask questions as a result of the accretion of this enormous extra economic zone. How will we possibly engage in any sensible resource management of this area which is clearly much more familiar to Taiwanese, Japanese and other fishermen than it is to Australians? The response in the 1979 Budget was the granting of an extra $ 1 m to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for fisheries resource work. 
The only other response to date has been the bringing down of this document, with some of its pathetic suggestions about acquiring greater knowledge of the 200 nautical miles limit. It has been quite within the province of the Government for three or four years past to determine when it would bring down the statement and what sort of response it would make to the declaration of the 200 nautical miles zone. As I say, its response has been quite inadequate. How on earth, for example, is Australia, which is not able at this stage to determine when refugees and others land on the Australian coast, to police a policy in relation to fishing throughout this enormous 200 nautical miles zone? 
Only last week we heard that for defence surveillance off the north coast of Western Australia the Australian Department of Transport has chartered an aircraft owned by a Hong Kong firm. As I understand  Senator Chaney  's answer to a question on the matter, the contract with the firm remains in force for another three years. That is what is being done in relation to surveillance of that kind. How can we possibly pretend that we can, in any sense, police fishing within the 200-mile zone? How, in any sense, can we possibly conduct adequate surveys of the resources available in that zone, on the basis of the response which is now, being made by the Government? These are matters of grave concern, which I would have thought required a much better government response, certainly one as requested by the working party on the fisheries zone, which sought government action in relation to these matters. 
I should also point out that at page 6 of the statement in relation to the Australian fishing zone reference is made to discussions with the States about enforcement of the rules applicable within the fishing zone. There is a suggestion that discussions on that matter are still in progress and that somehow perhaps the States will be able to provide parking attendants, or someone of that kind, to inspect what is going on within the 200-mile zone. It is, of course, known to the Opposition that the Government is seeking arrangements with the States in relation to the resources, and the allocation of profits from the exploitation of resources, in the 200-mile zone. Presumably they will be announced in greater detail at a later stage. My purpose is to emphasise that, as far as the Opposition is concerned, and as the High Court pointed out in no uncertain terms, the matter is one which is appropriately the responsibility of the Commonwealth. Attempts to subvert that Commonwealth responsibility represent an abdication of the proper role of the Commonwealth Government, just as this Government has abdicated its role in a variety of other areas, such as Aboriginal affairs. We are concerned to draw to the attention of the Senate the importance of this issue and hope that we will have a further opportunity to debate it in greater detail. I seek leave to continue my remarks - 
-I agree. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that the Australian ViceChancellors Committee in a recent statement expressed concern at the reduction in Federal Government support for post-graduate students through the decline in the number and value of awards? Has it also expressed concern at the level of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance? In view of the Government's expressed concern for the development of Australian industry and technology and the need for an adequate supply of skilled research workers, is any increase in assistance to post-graduate research being contemplated? If not, will the situation for the remainder of this year remain as it was enunciated in the Budget? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I refer to an answer the Minister gave to  Senator Puplick  earlier today regarding consultations with the Queensland Government relating to the proclamation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. In view of answers to questions given earlier this year when this matter was being discussed, are these anticipated as being the last round of consultations with the Queensland Government regarding what were previously referred to as the constitutional issues and is a result likely to flow quickly from these consultations early in October? 
My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacities as Leader of the Government in the Senate and Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to an answer which was given in the House of Representatives on 30 August 1979 by the Prime Minister in relation to a question dealing with the situation of the Minister for Primary Industry. The Prime Minister said: 
The Minister for Primary Industry has broadly kept me and the Leader of the National Country Party informed of the process he had put in train to correct a situation that he discovered when he became executor of his father's estate. 
Is it a fact that in New South Wales today prosecutions have been recommended against the Minister for Primary Industry on at least three groups of charges? Has the Prime Minister been informed in detail and is the Minister satisfied that the Prime Minister has been informed in detail as to the allegations which make up the substance of those charges? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me from moving: 'That the Senate condemns the Prime Minister for failure to maintain propriety in Government'. 
The question of moving the suspension of Standing Orders in relation to this matter arises from Standing Orders 448 and 449. Of course this action relates to a particular subject matter which I have indicated as the substance of the substantive motion which I want to move. The Standing Orders are the rules governing the day to day conduct of the business of the Senate. It is sought here to suspend those Standing Orders to deal with a matter of much greater gravity than the day to day business of the Senate. The substantive motion which I seek to move as a result of the suspension of Standing Orders relates to the conduct of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It relates to a matter in respect of which there has been a long and deliberate course of prevarication, evasion and double standards displayed by the Prime Minister to protect - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am sure that  Senator Button  is aware of the implications and I trust that he will stick strictly to the matter that he proposes. 
-I was putting the point that the Standing Orders of the Senate governed the day to day business of the Senate and that it was sought to suspend those Standing Orders to deal with a more serious matter than the day to day business of the Senate. I indicated the nature of the serious matter to which I wish to advert. That was the situation which provoked the point of order. The substance of the motion sought to be moved if Standing Orders are suspended has to be touched on because one cannot in any sense tell the Senate why one wants to interrupt the normal procedures, the normal business of the Senate, merely by asserting the fact that he wishes to do so. It would be ridiculous for any honourable senator just to assert: 'I want to suspend the Standing Orders of the Senate'. He has to tell the Senate in some way why he wants to suspend the Standing Orders of the Senate. I began to tell the Senate, and I will endeavour to continue to do so, that I wanted the Senate to deal with a very serious matter which was more important than the day to day business. The serious matter relates to a report of an inquiry set up by the New South Wales Attorney-General. We have been invited in the Senate on numerous occasions to wait until this report has been tabled. We have been told: 'Wait in patience and then you will have an opportunity to talk about it in circumstances which are fair and reasonable'. That is what I am seeking in seeking to suspend Standing Orders in this place. 
If  Senator Lewis  wants to know where the report is, let me, first of all, read to him- 
-Yes, I have. 
-I will table this extract when I have read it and all honourable senators will be able to read it. The serious matter in respect to which I have been invited by interjection to refer in detail, as I said, relates to the report of the inquiry by  Mr Finnane,  who was appointed by the New South Wales Attorney-General. Let me just quote for  Senator Lewis's  benefit from a passage of that report because it indicates the basic reason why Standing Orders ought to be suspended. I quote: 
Having considered this evidence - 
That is referring to the Minister for Primary Industry- 
I do not accept Ian Sinclair's explanation that after his father's death he found three blank documents with three signatures purporting to be his father's - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Button,  you have said that you must not concern yourself with the substance of the substantive motion. I trust that you will deal only with the reasons for immediate suspension of Standing Orders. 
-With the greatest of respect, I was putting a particular argument. In the course of it I was interrupted by Government senators, who invited me to say what the Finnane report has said. They invited me to do that. 
-Oh, yes.  Senator Lewis  did. A minute later  Senator Rae  raised a point of order. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I believe that  Senator Button  is attempting to abide by my ruling, 
In order not to offend further the colleagues and accomplices of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this matter, 1 will resume an earlier thread of my argument which I was intending to put. I submit, in passing, that the points would have been more graphically illustrated for Government senators if 1 had been permitted freedom of speech and the right to quote from a document about which they are undoubtedly concerned. I said earlier that I sought to suspend Standing Orders as the rules governing the day to day business of the Senate, and 1 want to put to the Senate why that should be done. 
The Senate is one of two Houses of this Parliament. The Parliament in which we sit provides the government of Australia and it provides the Ministers in that Government. I put it to the Senate that the integrity of the Parliament is dependent upon the integrity of the Ministers and the integrity of the government which sits in that Parliament. If any higher authority be needed for that proposition, let me quote from the Prime Minister of Australia on that particular question. On 8 August 1978, in a matter which led to the subsequent dismissal of the then Leader of the Government in the Senate, when cowardly points  of order  were not taken in order to defeat the purpose of suspending Standing Orders, the Prime Minister had this to say about that particular issue and that particular set of circumstances-- 
-If the honourable senator would just let me speak for a minute and finish, and then interrupt- 
-I am entitled to speak, and in the course of my speech I will indicate to 

 Senator Rae the urgency. I remind the Senate that there are Ministers in this place, as there are in the House of Representatives. They are the government of Australia. What the Prime Minister had to say about this issue at that time was this: 
The community rightly demand a high standard from the Ministers of the Government. The judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh-  and one could add 'more urgent'-  than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life. If these high standards were not upheld, the people's confidence in government- a confidence which is fundamental to Australian democracywould be undermined. 
The Government has an obligation to uphold them, even though the cost can be and is in this instance a high one. 
That is the standard of the Prime Minister in relation to these matters and that, one would have thought, demands a sense of urgency in this Parliament in relation to the allegations against a senior Minister to which I am not permitted by his colleagues to refer in the context of moving for the suspension of Standing Orders. The Prime Minister said that in relation to  Senator Withers,  the former Leader of the Government in the Senate. On another occasion, on 14 September 1978, when he was reminding the people of Australia and the Parliament about their obligations in relation to these matters, he had this to say: 
I believe . . . that members of this Parliament do a grave and serious disservice to this nation if they seek at every point -  and, I might interpolate, at every point of order-  at every hand, to destroy any possibility of trust existing. 
They are the words of the Prime Minister on two occasions. What I put to the Senate is that the Senate Standing Orders, which are the rules of business for this Senate, the rules for the conduct of the daily business of this Senate, should not be used as a sort of coward 's castle; they should not be used as Salome's veil to try to hide a scar in the Government; they should not be used for these purposes, to prevent the Senate from debating a matter which goes to the integrity of the Ministry, to the integrity of the Government and, in a lesser way, to the integrity of every member of this Parliament. 
That is why it is important, and that is why it is urgent that this matter be dealt with. It has gone on for months and months and months, with questions directed to Ministers about this matter. I could take half an hour of the Senate's time in referring to answers which have been given and which show that either the Prime Minister knew about all of this all along or the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was lying to him. There is only one conclusion that can be reached. No other options are available on the basis of the material which is now available. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Button  does have a difficult task in remaining away from the substance. I believe that he is trying to do that. I ask you,  Senator Button,  to continue to stay away from the substance of the motion for which you seek the suspension of Standing Orders. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  Before I was again interrupted I had been making the point that this Parliament consists of two chambers; that this Parliament, in those two chambers, has Ministers in it; that the Prime Minister and others have laid down the highest standards in relation to Ministers and their conduct; and that the integrity of the whole system, according to his view and according to mine- which I put from slightly different premises, I suspect- and the integrity of the Parliament are threatened in circumstances in which there is no confidence in the integrity of a particular Minister. That is a matter of the gravest importance and urgency to this Senate and to the Parliament. I want to - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Button,  I must ask you not to draw conclusions in the course of the remarks that you are making. 
I do not seek to draw any conclusions on the basis of the Finnane report. What I point out to  Senator Missen,  if I may be permitted to speak to this, is that when  Mr Garland  was charged with bribery he was stood down from the Ministry straight away. 
I am dealing with  Senator Missen  's point. What I put to the Senate is that entirely different standards and entirely different courses of conduct are being adopted by the Prime Minister. That relates to the substance of the motion; but I say no more than that. 
Let us look at an example which occurred in this chamber, in the Senate, on 30 May 1978. On that occasion the Senate acceded to the view which I am now putting. On 30 May 1 978 it was sought to move a censure motion on the then Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  On that occasion I sought to have the Standing Orders suspended for that purpose and  Senator Withers  promptly acceded to that course being followed. The present Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  should bear that precedent in mind when considering this matter. I remind the Senate that the allegation against  Senator Withers,  and in respect of which we sought to have the Standing Orders suspended, was one of misleading Parliament. It was not an allegation of fraud or forgery by a Minister of the Crown. There was no such allegation. The allegation of misleading Parliament was a relatively minor one in terms of what the average citizen might think about issues of this kind. I would think that the average Australian is not particularly concerned about- 
That is what the average Australian citizen thinks about all of us. People are not particularly concerned about an allegation of misleading Parliament, but the allegations which are included in the substantive motion, which I will seek to move 'if the Standing Orders are suspended, are very serious allegations indeed to be laid against a Minister of the Crown. Again and again at Question Time we have been told: 'Look, don't worry about these things now. Wait until the Attorney-General's inquiry in New South Wales is complete, then let's have a look at the matter'. That is the invitation which we have been given on numerous occasions. Now the matter is before us and we have a difficulty about debating it. I referred earlier to a previous occasion on which the Standing Orders were suspended. Ultimately  Senator Withers  was dismissed by the Prime Minister for impropriety, if you please. That led to a former colleague of ours, a much lamented senator and wit in this place, making the comment at that time that sacking  Senator Withers  for impropriety was like fining Al Capone for tax evasion. He was not referring to the financial impropriety of  Senator Withers  but to his political sins. That is a vastly different matter and something in which perhaps we all indulge from time to time. 
This is a much more serious matter. The question which Government senators in particular must ask themselves is whether they will hide behind the veil of the Standing Orders; whether they will regard the rules for the conduct of debate in the Senate as a means of evading debate on a major and important issue- an issue which has been discussed tonight in all the news bulletins and has been reported in all the evening papers; an issue which presumably it is not proposed to allow the Senate to discuss because of the Standing Orders. If that is the view which the Government intends to take, it is a most reprehensible view, to use a famous expression. It amounts to concealing a matter of this kind behind glib references to the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
I deliberately have been circumspect in everything I have said in the course of my remarks in order to avoid making any allegation which might upset Government senators and in order to avoid dealing with the substance of the matter, which undoubtedly would upset Government senators, lt is most important that it be seen that we regard this as a very serious matter. Honourable senators opposite are fully aware of the fact that it is a serious matter and they should not take any course other than to allow the matter to be debated in the Senate. That is so for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, the substantive motion relates to the Prime Minister and secondly, different standards of behaviour are expected from different Ministers, whether they be national Country Party or Liberal Party Ministers. Different courses of conduct have been established in relation to the defalcations or misbehaviour of different Ministers. 
In spite of the lofty sentiments of the Prime Minister, which I read to the Senate at the beginning of my remarks and which should establish beyond doubt the concern of this Senate to deal with this matter as one of importance and a matter of urgency, in the four years of the Fraser Government strange and different standards have been applied to the conduct of various Ministers. I make no allegation of corruption or anything of that kind. I do not want to do so. 
If  Senator Maunsell  is concerned about that I merely say that more Ministers in this Government have been acquitted than in any other government in the Western world. That is an achievement! The point is that the substantive motion relates to a standard of conduct set by the Prime Minister and then abandoned when various standards were applied to different Ministers. That is a matter of urgency and importance and the Senate should not shrink from dealing with it. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- A  motion moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition does not need a seconder. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  No. The 
Leader of the Government in the Senate will speak to the motion. 
I rise at this stage to speak in the Budget debate, which has now been proceeding for some weeks, and in the course of which a number of matters concerning the Australian economy and the impact of the Budget thereon have been raised by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. From the Budget statement has emerged the clear understanding that by the end of this year we will have a 10 per cent inflation rate, and that Australia will have a considerable, and continuing, level of unemployment. 
However, I wish particularly to direct attention to the double standards that are quite implicit in the Budget in relation, on the one hand, to the poor and underprivileged in terms of social welfare, employment and other matters and, on the other, to Ministers of this Government. Before referring to that matter in detail I wish to mention briefly the matter of industrial relations in this country and the statements made on a number of occasions by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to it. I remind the Senate that for four years we have been told that one of the factors preventing greater stability in the Australian economy was the demands of unions in respect of wages. But not long ago, on 18-19 August in the  Weekend Australian,  the Prime Minister said:  1 suppose wages have been . . . neutral in terms of their effect on inflation. 
He went on to say: 
There's been very little wage drift outside the Commission's determinations, much less than I think most people would believe. 
After four years of claiming exactly the opposite, the Prime Minister had that to say on 18-19 August. Who could fail to be confused about the direction and integrity of the Government in relation to these matters? On the subject of integrity, I am reminded that on 12 March 1978, the Prime Minister said: 
Without integrity- without the appearance and reality of integrity- no Government can hope to have the confidence of the people, or the trust of the people. 
It is quite clear that if the Prime Minister has any integrity of any kind it is not of the intellectual kind in regard to his statements on industrial relations, on employment and on other matters which concern wage earners in this country. But I submit, and this is the burden of what I have to say tonight, that the Government has no integrity in terms of standards, in terms of direction, or in terms of the principles which, on the one hand, are applied to Ministers and, on the other, to the underprivileged of this country. Indeed, there is not even integrity in the way in which the various Ministers of this Government are treated. 
In 1975 the Labor Government was forced out of office in unusual and quite extraordinary circumstances which left in this country a legacy of political bitterness. The reason and justification for that decision, as expressed by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  were that his Party could do better in government than the Labor Government had done. That allegation was expressed, in his 1975 policy speech, in these terms: 
This election results from the dishonesty and incompetence of the Whitlam Labor Government. This election has been caused by the dismissal of two acting Prime Ministers for deceiving the Parliament. 
He went on to enumerate other reasons of the same kind and added: 
What can be done immediately, and must bc done, is to establish- for the first time in three years- sound and honest management of Australia's affairs. We have a comprehensive strategy. 
That is what the then Leader of the Opposition or caretaker Prime Minister said in 1975. Those allegations by  Mr Fraser  were accompanied by a cacophony of sound from Government senators and Liberal Party Ministers of the caretaker Government supportive of the same sentiments. I remind the Senate that when one talks about honesty, integrity and standards in government, not one Minister of the Whitlam Labor Government appeared in court on a charge of bribery. Not one Minister of the Whitlam Labor Government appeared before a royal commission to explain his conduct to a royal commissioner. Not one Minister of the Whitlam Labor Government was subjected to an inquiry into his personal financial affairs. Not one Minister of the Whitlam Labor Government, after lengthy inquiry, had allegations of fraud and forgery made against him by a quasi-judicial tribunal. Not one Minister of that Government admitted to a quasi-judicial tribunal that he had used a round robin system of cheques in order to cover up offences against the Companies Act. Not one Minister of the Labor Government did that. 

 Senator Carrick has a highly selective memory of things past. Sigmund Freud once said that neuroticism was an abnormal obsession with the past. By that definition,  Senator Carrick  is the leading neurotic of the Senate. Constantly, day after day, he has reminded us of the alleged political sins of the Whitlam Government but, of course, does not advert to the features of that Government's record to which I have just referred. 
Since November 1975 the present Prime Minister on numerous occasions has lectured this Parliament and the Australian people about propriety in government. Let me cite to the Senate some brief examples. In July of 1 975 in berating the Labor Government he said: 
Ten per cent, or even SO per cent of the truth is as good a way of misleading this Parliament and the Australian people as a downright lie. The half truth, the partial answer and the slipping over of the full facts are a misleading of this Parliament just as much as and maybe much more deliberately than the statement by the former Deputy Prime Minister. 
I believe that he was referring to  Dr Cairns.  On another occasion the same sort of sentiments were echoed by honourable senators in this place. In 1975 the Prime Minister was saying such things as: 
Our policies will be directed to working with all of you to give Australia a responsible Government and one that you can trust. 
As I said, those sentiments were echoed in this place by people like  Senator Webster.  I quote from  Senator Webster's  views about the same matter. Talking about Ministers in the Labor Government, he had this to say in the Senate on 15 October 1975: 
The fact is that evidence of this matter has had to be dragged out of the Ministers day after day. They should be on their feet apologising for the abject faults and falsehoods that they have brought into this Parliament. If they are not ashamed of themselves they ought to be. 
A leader with any respect for his own image would declare immediately in this Parliament that he has misled the Parliament, although perhaps unintentionally. Surely those who have followed the disgrace and discharge of the various Ministers during these past months must endorse my comment that any leader with any respect for his own image would resign immediately. 

 Senator Webster is concerned there about the image of Ministers and that is a matter to which I wish to come in a moment. That was his concern and he should perhaps be here tonight to look after the question of the image of Ministers as he was so keen to do in October 1 975. 
The more important statement among the lectures to this Parliament and to the Australian people about propriety came from the then Prime Minister on 8 August 1978 after he and other senior Ministers, including  Mr Ian  Sinclair and Peter Nixon, had carefully considered the determinations of the McGregor Royal Commission which ultimately made a finding against  Senator Withers.  The Prime Minister said: 
We had no doubt that our first and foremost responsibility was the maintenance of the high standards of propriety set and maintained by this Government. 
The community rightly demand a high standard from the Ministers of the Government. The judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside sphere of public life. If these high standards were not upheld, the people's confidence in government- a confidence which is fundamental to Australian democracy- would be undermined. 
The Government has an obligation to uphold them even though the costs can be and is in this instance, a high one. 
The Senate is debating the Budget. I cannot stress to the Senate more emphatically that that Budget is a document which relates to the finances of this Government and finances of the people of Australia. The question of integrity and the question of standards become doubly important when one is talking about the Budget documents. I have been concerned, for that reason, to establish the standards which the Prime Minister has laid down for the conduct of Ministers who prepare the Budget, the Ministers who present the Budget to this Parliament, of which we are all members. Those standards are very important. In the case of the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party in the House of Representatives, a very senior Minister, a close confidant of the Prime Minister and one who it might be said talks the same language as the 
Prime Minister on these questions, the standards seem to be very different. 
Lest there be any doubt that the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  talks the same language on these questions as the Prime Minister, talks the same language as I have just quoted, might I refer the Senate to the transcript of the  PM  program tonight when  Mr Sinclair  said this in a rebroadcast from an earlier occasion: 
Our standards arc very high indeed and the standards that I have set I believe maintain exactly the same standards that anyone would wish a person in high public office to set. I certainly, in terms of my own personal financial affairs, have done nothing of which there is any charge of impropriety, the misappropriation, to use the phrase he likes to use, and the sum of money he mentions . . . 
That is referring to  Mr Whitlam  who asked a question about the matter. Later,  Mr Sinclair  went on to say this:   . . I think what  Mr Whitlam  is trying to do is ensure that he having no case of his own he has got to make one and he just has no case because all these things have been discussed publicly before. 
That was in 1 977.  Mr Sinclair  went on to say: 
Well you know the trouble with the Labor Party's pursuit is that they have got nothing to pursue. You see, the whole matter has been discussed, published, and there is no fact to be revealed that has not been revealed and there is no circumstance which in any way is improper. 
Those are the words of the Minister for Primary Industry and  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party about himself in November 1977. Those words, as I say, were said about himself. I refer to the standards which have been suggested there by  Mr Sinclair  and which have been repeated again and again by the Prime Minister in this sort of schizophrenetic attitude to standards which he announces on the one hand and standards which he has on the other. I refer particularly, in illustrating the point about standards, to the interim report of the New South Wales inquiry into the affairs of the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party and the Minister for Primary Industry which was brought out today and which of course is available to the Government. I quote from page 26 of the report - 
The Senate has no Standing Order on the matter and whether a matter is allowed to be discussed is in the discretion of the Chair, whose decision of course is subject to the will of the Senate. In interpreting the sub judice doctrine, the Chair is likely to keep in mind what is the greater good and, in the ultimate, it is submitted that the greater good must be the public interest. 
On the preceding page there is this reference, in quoting the Jerger case: 
The Parliament does not ask 'Is there a proceeding pending at this moment', but rather 'in all the circumstances, should a debate on a particular matter be permitted at this particular moment?' 
Let me remind you of what we understand from allegations made in this chamber this evening are the facts. First, there has not been any document tabled in this chamber. We do not have access to a document which  Senator Button  wishes to quote from. Secondly, it is described by speakers as an interim report of a quasi-judicial proceeding in which there are allegations of what could amount to criminal activities. It is not clear whether any recommendations have been made in relation to prosecution. We cannot check because we do not have the document. It has been suggested in earlier debates in this place that there are suggestions of criminality in relation to forgery and certain other falsities. The fact, therefore, is that what  Senator Button  is attempting to do is to refer to a document which is not available to this chamber for anybody to see whether it is selective quotation or not selective quotation. It is a document which is in some way related to a part completed quasi judicial inquiry into alleged offences presumably under the Companies Act which may go further than the Companies Act and involve the criminal law as such. It is the clearest possible case of a situation where the Chair ought to protect. It should do so on the basis to which I referred, which is this: Should a debate on a particular matter be permitted at this particular moment? That is the question. 
-I will concede that. 
Order on the matter and whether a matter is allowed to be discussed is at the discretion of the Chair, whose decision of course is subject to the will of the Senate'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I thank honourable senators for their contributions, but I ask them not to debate the matter. 
-I am indebted to all honourable senators who have contributed. When I said that I conceded to  Senator Rae,  all I meant was that I would not read the section of the Finnane report which he finds difficult to stomach. I do not concede any of his arguments about why it should not be read to the Senate. We can debate that at another time. I was talking about the difference in standards which are set by this Government in relation to different classes in the community and different Ministers in this Government. In relation to the matter which is now the subject of a report of the New South Wales inquiry, I say first of all that the Prime Minister has known about that for a very long time- since November 1977 when the issues were first raised in relation to the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. 
One can only conclude from the farrago, the long series or smorgasbord of questions and answers, that somebody is pulling somebody else's leg, not to put too fine a point on it, and either the Minister for Primary Industry is pulling the Prime Minister's leg- not to put too fine a point on it- or the Prime Minister is pulling the Parliament's leg in relation to this matter. For example, 1 refer to the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 30 August and 7 June this year, when the Minister for Primary Industry had this to say: 
Let me say to this House and to the people of Australia that from the moment these irregularities first appeared . . . 
That is in relation to himself- 
I reported them to the Prime Minister and to my own leader. I told them of the nature and the manner in which I hoped to resolve them. 
When the Prime Minister was asked about that on 30 August, he said that  Mr Sinclair  had, of course, reported these matters to him. He stated: 
I think that it would be much better if this matter was put aside . . . until that report is made available and until that report is public. Then there may be some facts on which to  make judgements 
That is what the Prime Minister said on 30 August in the House of Representatives about that matter. There has been a long history in relation to this question of double standards, of which the Prime Minister of this country has been fully aware. I have referred already to the much vaunted standards of this Government, but let us look for a moment at the reality. Let us look at the standards in relation to these sorts of matters involving people in high places in public life in Australia. In 1975 there was a report brought down in this Parliament by the Joint Committee into the Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament- a committee on the declarations of interests. It was signed by  Mr Robinson,  now a Minister; by the Honourable Peter Nixon, now a Minister; and evidence was given to it by the Right Honourable Ian Sinclair, now a Minister. That report recommended urgent action in relation to the disclosure of pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. That was in November 1975, and urgent action was recommended in relation to this matter. 
What happened after that? Because this report related to an endemic disease of the Fraser Government, nothing was done about that report in 1976 or 1977. It was only in February 1 978 that the Bowen inquiry was set up after the former Treasurer had hit the fence- to use a common piece of parlance- in November 1977. The Bowen committee of inquiry was set up to investigate the question of pecuniary interests.  Mr Justice  Nigel Bowen,  Sir Cecil  Looker and others presided over that inquiry. Eighteen months later, after that recommendation which was described as urgent by Ministers of this Government in November 1975, nothing has been told to the Parliament of Australia about the matter. As the whole question of family trusts came out in Australia earlier this year, the Prime Minister flamboyantly announced that he had disposed of his own family trust. He did so after family trusts had become useless vehicles for tax avoidance in Australia. I think that happened in July of this year after that precise situation had changed as a result of legislation of the Government, which the Opposition applauded. 
Look what has happened in relation to the standards of other Ministers, compared with the present Minister for Primary Industry who has not even yet been called upon to resign or been asked to stand down from the Ministry. When 

 Mr Garland was charged with bribery in the context of an election, he instantly stood down from the Ministry. One would have thought that an appropriate course for a Minister to take. He was not convicted; he was charged with bribery. The magistrate said there was a pretty good case against him but he would not send him for trial. So, he got back into the Ministry. When allegations were made in the context of a royal commission against  Mr Robinson,  as a Minister, he was suspended. They were just allegations made in a royal commission. There was no finding of facts or anything like that. Allegations were made and he was suspended from the Ministry. He came back later, but that is how  Mr Robinson  was treated. When  Mr Lynch  got into trouble over Stumpy Gully and tax avoidance, he was dismissed from his post as Treasurer in 1977 because of those allegations. 
The interesting fact about that was that the Prime Minister of the day said: 'Look, there has been an outside inquiry that has acquitted  Mr Lynch,  in my view, of these charges and therefore I will allow him to remain in the Ministry'. There has been an outside inquiry into relation to Ian Sinclair, too, but the findings are different; so the Prime Minister's actions are different.  His  actions are different because  Mr Sinclair  belongs to a different party. Look what happened to  Senator Withers.  He was found by a royal commission to be guilty of impropriety, of all things, and he was dismissed from the Ministry. That was the standard applied by the Prime Minister in relation to  Senator Withers.  Immediately after that the Prime Minister made that very pompous statement about the standard of propriety in government on which he insisted, about which I read to the Senate earlier. That is what happened after  Senator Withers  was dismissed. 
Of course, we all know that after  Senator Withers  was dismissed that  Mr Anthony  and others went to the Prime Minister- perhaps with the gift of foresight, I do not know- and said: From now on, Prime Minister, you have to be loyal to your Ministers'. Of course, that was an idea which had never occurred to the Prime Minister of Australia. One has only to ask  Sir Billy  Snedden or  Sir John  Gorton to find proof of that fact.  Mr Anthony  and others suggested to him that for the first time in his life, after Reg Withers was sacked, he ought to be loyal to his Ministers. So he said: 'Yes, I will be loyal to my Ministers'. Who is the first man who comes along to whom he decides to be loyal?  Mr Ian  Sinclair, the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party and the Minister for Primary Industry in Australia. So, the unhappy Prime Minister in his one act of loyalty in his life embraces the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. Fancy anyone embracing a cobra like that in order to display that he has the gift of loyalty. So double standards apply in relation to Liberal Party members. 
-That is called a metaphor,  Mr Deputy President.  Probably  Senator Peter  Baume has not heard of that. I did not mean that  Mr Sinclair  was a cobra. I meant that the Prime Minister embraced an awful problem. 
-Yes, he did when he embraced the Minister for Primary Industry as a person to whom he decided to be loyal. Indeed, he is still being loyal to him. There are double standards- one for Liberals, one for members of the National Country Party; one for some Ministers, one for another; one for this Government and its Ministers and another for the people of Australia. 
-Did the AttorneyGeneral attend a meeting, chaired by the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Lynch,  on 3 1 May this year following the contradictory answers about the Great Barrier Reef given by him and  Mr Newman?  At that meeting, were discussions held about the fact that three Ministers would be in difficulty if  Mr Newman's  answer were allowed to stand? Did  Mr Newman  at the meeting volunteer to go back into the House of Representatives and say that he had not heard the question? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I present the following petition from 161 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 1977 should immediately be repealed because: 
* It provides unfettered power to Ministers to suspend, stand-down and dismiss Commonwealth Government employees and places them in a markedly disadvantageous position as compared with all other Australian workers. 
* Its use places Commonwealth Government employees in direct conflict with the Government as it circumvents the arbitration tribunals and denies appeal rights. 
* Its use will exacerbate industrial disputes and inflame industrial relations in the Commonwealth area of employment. 
* The International Labour Organisation has condemned the Provisions of the Act as being incompatible with the rights of organised labour in a free society. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer him to questions which I have asked him on three occasions and in answer to which he has on each occasion undertaken to bring down a statement relating to fees for overseas students in tertiary institutions. I ask the Minister whether the statement made by  Mr MacKellar,  the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, on 28 September 1979 is in any sense a definitive statement of the Government's view on this matter or whether we can still expect a statement from the Minister and, if so, when. 
by leave - I move - 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I want to make some very brief remarks in relation to this report. My first comment is that the report is for the financial year ending 30 June 1978 and that where the  Chairman  has signed the report on page 5 the date which apparently was previously there has been blocked out and the date now appears as September 1979. Delay in the presentation and tabling of reports has consistently been taken up by  Senator Rae.  But, in relation to a report of this kind, such a delay does have a detrimental effect on the capacity of the Parliament to discuss the issues contained in the reports and to discuss what the bodies which are the authors of such reports are doing in thenday to day work. For example, it is interesting to note that this report does not contain any discussion of the core curriculum work of the Curriculum Development Centre, which has been the subject of some public discussion in the last year or so. Certainly I have not found it in the limited time I have had the document available to me. One would have thought that that would be fairly central to any intelligent discussion in the Parliament of the work of the Curriculum Development Centre. That is a matter of regret. Page 1 1 of this report contains a discussion of a review of the program of the Curriculum Development Centre. It states in the course of that discussion that:   in the latter part of the 1979-80 triennium increasing emphasis will be given to activities and projects relating to primary schooling and to upper secondary, technical and further education . . . 
I just make the point that it is gratifying to see that at least at the end of this triennium the Curriculum Development Centre will give attention to those areas of education which, as a matter of public discussion for some time, have been seen to be the most important. Primary education and the upper levels of secondary schooling and technical and further education are areas on which day after day we have discussions in this Parliament. We have discussions about the relevance of education to work, the relevance of training to work and, more particularly, the matter of youth unemployment. Even at Question Time today, I suppose three or four questions were asked on this subject matter. It is interesting to see that the response of the Curriculum Development Centre will be to look at these matters late in this triennium. I do not blame it for that; I am making a simple point that there is an awful lead time between the emergence of significant educational and social problems and the response of government statutory authorities and other bodies to those problems. It is gratifying to see that the Curriculum Development Centre will be looking at those matters because they are areas which the Curriculum Development Centre identifies in its report as being of crucial importance in any intelligent discussion of education in this country. It is to be hoped that that work which will take place in the latter part of this triennium, will be expedited as much as possible. 
The report in the review of the program also refers to further projects in primary, upper secondary, technical and further education which will be tackled by the Curriculum Development Council. I notice that in a subsequent chapter of the report, under the heading 'Science, Mathematics and Technology Education', there is some discussion of the importance of these aspects of education and training. Unfortunately, there is not much discussion of computer education, which the Opposition certainly regards as important. The report contains also a pretty clear indication of the very limited resources which are available to a body such as the Curriculum Development Council in the area of science, mathematics and technology education. We hope that those matters also will be expedited, perhaps with some government stimulation and assistance, because they are matters of very considerable importance to the future of the education system in this country. 
The report deals also, in passing, with schoolbased decision making. I simply make the point that, as school-based decision making becomes more and more autonomous- as one suspects is happening in a very slow, ad hoc sort of waythe role of a professional body, such as the Curriculum Development Centre, in developing curricula becomes more and more critical for the benefit of school-based decison makers. To that extent, any discussion or emphasis which the report places on that issue is commended by the Opposition and is regarded as well worth while. I have had the opportunity to look at this report only very briefly, but they seem to me to be some of the important issues which emerge from it. I commend the report to the Senate and seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
This report, which again I have had for only a very brief time, is the fourth annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations and is for the year 1979. It is a document which I commend to the reading of all honourable senators. 

 - Senator Evans points out that it may well be the last report we will see. The business sheet shows that it was originally the intention of the Government to table this report and the comments of  Mr Justice  Staples concerning human rights. Then later this day the Senate is to debate the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill. This report, insofar as I have been able to examine it, chronicles the Government's running down of the functions of the Commissioner for 
Community Relations since the implementation of the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975. As I said, if the legislation which the Government has foreshadowed had in fact been introduced and passed today that process of emasculation of the Racial Discrimination Act would, in a sense, have become complete.  Senator Evans  implied this in his interjection. 
The report contains a number of examples of how racism is finding its expression in contemporary Australia in 1979. At page 2 of the report the Commissioner notes that he has identified 30 extremist or racist groups dedicated to promoting race hatred and community division. Taken at their own words, these groups would have a combined membership, according to the Commissioner, of some 104,000 people. I think that every senator will have received in his mail in the last few weeks copies of literature- if it can be so described- which is identified with these racist groups. The proliferation of that sort of material is of considerable and growing concern to many people in this country. 
The Commissioner notes in the report that coincidental to the rise in unemployment and particularly youth unemployment, school children are being made deliberate targets for racist propaganda relating to the employment issue. The Commissioner, both at page 2 and again at chapter 7 of the report, refers in detail to the decision by the Queensland Government to defy the law of the land and to deny complainants under the Act the right to conciliation processes laid down under the existing Racial Discrimination Act. The Commissioner notes that in the end as a result of the complete lack of cooperation between his office and the Queensland Government over a period of up to twelve months certificates had to be issued to complainants so that they could take their complaints against State Ministers to courts of law. Another interesting section of the report is the review of the international scene in which the Commissioner contrasts the action taken at home to combat racial discrimination with the Australian Government's attitude overseas. He notes, for example that the Australian report to the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination at page 5 stated: 
Action has been taken to repeal laws that may have discriminated between people on grounds of race, colour, national or ethnic origin. Section 10 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1 975 overrides any existing laws that may operate with a discriminatory effect. 
That is what the Australian Government has told the United Nations. The Commissioner in all charity notes that while that may have been the desire and the expressed view of the Australian Government in international, forums- this Government tends to express fascinating views in international forums compared with its performance at home- the sentiment expressed stood in sharp contrast to the actions of the Queensland Government in relation to Aborigines living on government reserves and Torres Strait Islanders in their home territories. The Commissioner says that in practice the Queensland Government has failed to recognise the existence of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act of 1 975 and, to all intents and purposes, the Federal Racial Discrimination Act of 1975. The first report by the Australian Government to the United Nations Committee stated:  . . The Department (of Aboriginal Affairs) is concerned with the rights of Aboriginals to retain their own languages, culture and traditions, their right to manage their own affairs and their rights in land. 
The Commissioner then states: 
In practice, such rights are daily negated on the Queensland Aboriginal Reserves, which are managed by white staff appointed by the Queensland Government, and where the land is owned, not by Aboriginal communities, but by the State Government. 
That is, the Government of Queensland. The Australian report further stated: 
Adequate provision for research and education on racial discrimination has also been stressed by Australian-- 
That is internationally- 
As important. 
The Commissioner says that of course he would agree with that. I think we would all agree with that. He continues: 
. but in fact very few resources have been allotted for its implementation. In the case of my own Office, smallness of staff numbers and the steeply increasing workload has precluded research and severely limited community education. 
A number of other statements in the report go to the same essential issues, but I just want to refer briefly to some of them. I can fully understand the desire of the Government to publish this report and forget about it if possible. We do not intend to allow that to happen because some of the matters are very serious and cannot be wished away by this window-dressing government that we have in Australia. I want to refer the Senate to one or two other passages. First of all, I refer to the Australian report which states: 
Australia is fundamentally opposed to and condemns all propaganda and organisations which are based on or profess ideas or theories of the superiority of one race or group of persons of one colour or ethnic origin, or which attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and discrimination in any form. 
The Commissioner then stated: 
In practice, I have not been able to prevent the dissemination of racist literature, nor can a racial or ethnic group ( as distinct from a person) have any redress under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 against racially defamatory statements. 
In that regard it is worth referring to the conclusions of the National  President  of the United Nations Association of Australia,  Mr Richard  Alston, on the operation of the Racial Discrimination Act. I draw government members' attention to the fact that  Mr Richard  Alston is also the distinguished  President  of the Liberal Party in Victoria. He has the difficult but not entirely racist task of negotiating with the National Country Party in that State on behalf of the Liberal Party- a set of negotiations he handles with great skill and aplomb.  Mr Alston  who has had a very long association for so young a person with the United Nations Association of Australia, is a man whose views should be considered seriously by government senators, if not by Country Party senators. 
In the summary of the report on page 14 the Commissioner deals with some of the views which have been put forward by the United Nations Association of Australia and which bear on the comments I previously made about the frustration which the Commissioner has suffered in the exercise of his functions under the Act. I think a very interesting commentary on page 13 of the report points out that the Commissioner for Community Relations has not been consulted at all about the forthcoming amendments to the Racial Discrimination Act. I would have thought that that was quite an extraordinary omission. 
It is not just an omission; it is an extraordinary arrogant and insulting way to treat a distinguished figure in this field and an extraordinary and insulting way to treat an office such as the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. I think it is important that that be noted before we get into the detail of debating the Government's new window-dressing scenario for these matters to be dealt with in the future. On page 12 of the report the Commissioner also reiterates the suggestions made in his 1977-78 report for the better operation and implementation of the Racial Discrimination Act. It is very interesting that those suggestions made on page 12 of the report as to how the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 might be improved in its operations have not been tackled by the Government. Instead, we have this totally emasculating and alternative legislation which is projected to be brought forward in the Parliament in the near future. I make the point that, in a sense, this report is highly critical of the Federal Government's actions and, more particularly, the Queensland Government's actions. For that reason, I guess this Government sought to embark upon the course it has decided on. 
We reach a parlous situation in a so-called pluralist and democratic society if a person in the office of Commissioner for Community Relations is placed in the extraordinary position where he cannot speak freely, without threat and without at least a degree of consultation with the government of the day. If that be so, it is an extraordinary and depressing situation for this country. I again make the point that the aim of the projected legislation is to obviate this sort of criticism and to thwart proper analysis of that criticism in this place by honourable senators and members of parliament. I find it quite extraordinary that the Commissioner was not consulted about the legislation which is now to be brought forward. I find it quite extraordinary that the Government has not seen fit to make any comment on the recommendations the Commissioner made in his 1977-78 report and which he feels it necessary to make again in the body of his 1979 report. This is another deplorable story in the life of this shonky Government. It is a matter that we would like to discuss and debate further in the Senate. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the rank order placing of Watsonia High School on the revised Schools' Priority Index Survey, which records degree of disadvantage. 
What funds for both capital and recurring expenditure have been made available in each year form 1 969 to 1 978 to Watsonia High School, and to a private secondary school of comparable size and in a similar category on the Schools' Priority Index Survey. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) Is the Great Barrier Reef one of the few remaining areas of the world in which giant clams can be found. 
Is the giant clam ecologically important to the survival of the Reef; if so, how. 
Are the Taiwanese poachers referred to in an article in the Melbourne  Herald,  9 June 1979, also taking triton shell fish, and is the triton shell fish the main predator of the Crown of Thorns starfish. 
Are the same poachers taking turtles and bird life. 
Do some of these poachers scour the reefs for up to three months at a time. 
What resources, in particular resources of the Armed Services, are deployed to prevent these practices. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to a question asked of the Minister on 27 September by  Senator Lewis,  in which he asked about the apparent relative decline in students enrolling in vocational courses in the technical and further education sector compared with students enrolling in what he termed arts and humanities subjects. I refer also to the Minister's answer in which he said, not surprisingly; 
Most of this problem occurred in the period of the Labor Government . . . I . . . underline a profound truth. I now say that during those years there was a drift away from the vital TAFE courses into too heavy a concentration in the arts courses. 
I ask the Minister whether he was aware when he gave that answer that during the three years of Labor government enrolments in vocational TAFE courses increased by 25 per cent and in arts courses- in spite of the growth of colleges of advanced education- by less than 20 per cent. I ask also whether the Minister intends to continue with the practice of giving answers of this kind without any reference whatsoever to the facts. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer him to an article which appears in today's  Australian  which is captioned 'Jim Carlton, Federal Liberal M.P. for Mackellar and  chairman  of the Government Members' Employment and Youth Affairs Committee takes a look at the Catholic report on unemployment and concludes the church is dabbling with Marxism '. Is this the view of the Government as well as the view of the  chairman  of that Committee? If so, how could such a situation have arisen after four years of Fraser Government? 
I refer the Minister for Science and the Environment to a statement made yesterday by  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, in which he linked the Unemployed Workers Union to the Australian Conservation Foundation because both organisations, together with a number of other organisations, share a particular post box in Canberra. Is the Minister able to confirm that this post office box number is the address for groups which share the facilities of the Canberra and South East Region Environment Centre? Is it not a fact that such centres are funded by this Government to provide resources for community groups? Is it the Government's view that because organisations share a post box they also share their views? 
-The Senate is debating the Passports Amendment Bill 1979, a piece of legislation in respect of which my own knowledge is relatively recent. I merely wish to make some general comments about the legislation in the course of the second reading debate. The purpose of this Bill is to make a number of amendments to the existing legislation on passports. Basically it does three things. Firstly, it gives a wide discretion to the Minister, both in the issuing and cancellation of passports; secondly, it lays down some criteria in some circumstances for authorised officers in issuing passports; and, thirdly, it substantially increases the penalties for offences under the Act. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but is concerned with a number of its features. In respect of one issue it will move an amendment to the motion for the second reading and in respect of others it will seek changes to the Bill in the Committee stage. Under the previous legislation the Minister had no power in relation to the issue of passports although he had wide discretion in their cancellation. The power to issue passports resided with officers authorised by the Minister. They exercised wide discretion in the issue of passports and no doubt the exercise of that discretion was based upon the policies of the government of the time. In any event this Bill makes it quite clear that the Minister had overriding control in both the issue and cancellation of passports. 
While the Opposition does not oppose this ministerial discretion it is alarmed that there is no check on the exercise of that discretion. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal was established to provide checks on unfettered discretion given to governments, either to officials or to Ministers. The existence of that Tribunal gave the citizen some confidence that administrative discretions were not exercised in an arbitrary way. The policies of this Government towards the operation of that Tribunal are somewhat obscure. In some cases discretions created by legislation are referred to that body, but this does not happen in others. In this case very wide discretion is conferred on the Minister and his officials under the passports legislation and is not subject to any appeal. Thus a passport could be denied or cancelled without any reason given and the citizen has no recourse whatsoever other than to appeal to the individual who took the initial step. 
The Opposition believes that administrative discretions should be referable on appeal to the Appeals Tribunal unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary. In other words, there should be appeal against the exercise of admin.strative discretion unless the government of the day gave very cogent reasons why such an appeal should not lie. In this case, if one accepts what the then Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said during the House of Representatives debate, it would appear that the matter has not even been considered. For this reason, during the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving an amendment that will allow an appeal and it urges most strongly that the Government give this amendment very serious consideration, if only in the interests of consistency with other legislation brought down by this Government. 
One of the problems under the legislation is that a passport could be denied to a person without his being told. The issue of a passport to such a person could be delayed, and delayed without any reason being given and without any assurance that a decision would be made ultimately. The Opposition believes that some time limit should be imposed during which the Government should make up its mind about whether a passport will be issued to that person. If a passport had not been issued within that time, such a person should then have a right to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Under conditions such as these, people could be assured of receiving just treatment under the legislation. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber should be concerned that the Government invites them to create laws which transfer significant discretion to administration. The Parliament should indicate that it would be much more happy to confer these powers after proper appeal provisions are instituted. The Senate, of course, as the vaunted watchdog of the Executive, should be very concerned in relation to that issue. 
The amendments introduced by this Bill are somewhat confusing. In the second reading speech, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said that the Bill seeks to provide a proper legislative basis for passport policy and a clear legislative framework for the exercise of ministerial discretion. If that is the case, then this Bill has been a significant failure. Under the Bill, the Minister has unfettered discretion, with no guidelines. A few guidelines are being introduced for authorised officers, but they are subject to being overridden by ministerial direction and, in any event, do not cover every situation. For example, in the second reading speech, the Minister discussed the practice of requiring the consent of a spouse or former spouse to the issue of a passport. He recognised that this matter was a difficult one and involved the infringement of certain rights. He indicated that the practice of requiring that consent would continue. Where is anything dealing with that issue in the Bill? There is no reference to the consent of the spouse. There is no restriction on authorised officers issuing passports without any consent. Apparently this is one area which will be left to unfettered ministerial direction and for which there is no legislative framework at all. 
The provisions contained in the Bill provide directions to passport officials in cases of minors, people for whom there is a warrant for arrest, people who owe money to the Commonwealth, and other classes of persons to whom passports will not be issued. However, even this legislative framework is subject to being overridden at any time by directions from the Minister. In those circumstances, it is not clear just what benefits will be gained by having these matters in the Bill. Certainly the legislation does not live up to the expectation created by Ministers that it would spell out as clearly as possible the reasons for which a citizen may be refused a passport. 
Even so, there are some issues arising from this part of the Bill which do require attention. Among the matters dealt with by the Bill are the conditions under which a passport will be issued to a person under 1 8 years of age. The broad intention of this aspect of the Bill is to ensure that an unmarried minor is not issued with a passport without steps having been taken to protect the rights of the child and the rights of persons who have custody or guardianship of or access to the child. The intention of this part of the Bill is acceptable to the Opposition. However, it does not deal with the situation of entry of the child's name on the passport of an adult. To increase the protection provided by this part of the Bill, the Opposition will be seeking an amendment to those clauses. 
I touch on the question of the need for consent of a spouse or former spouse. The Minister indicated that this need will be significantly reduced when Australia becomes a signatory to the International Convention on Recovery Abroad of Maintenance. As this Convention came into existence in 1956, the Opposition invites the Minister to inform the Senate why Australia has not yet become a signatory to that Convention prior to this time, which is some 23 years after its commencement and when Australia intends to become a signatory to it? One aspect of the Bill which concerns the Opposition is the stiff increase in penalties provided under the Act. For example, under the existing legislation if a person fails to hand over on demand any passport in his possession after it has been cancelled, he is subject to a penalty of  100 or imprisonment for three months. Under this Bill he would be liable to a year's gaol. The Bill creates a new offence. If somebody loses a passport and fails, as soon as he becomes aware of the loss, to report it, he is liable for a penalty of a year's gaol. These are fairly serious penalties in respect of the offences to which I have referred. 
I must say that these provisions strike terror in my heart when I recall the fate of some passports I have held. 
-I thought that it may be a not uncommon event and something which might even provoke the Minister. 
-No, but I am talking about passports before the Minister became the holder of an official passport. With respect, it may lead him to examine more closely the provisions of this Bill. In the view of the Opposition, serious offences demand serious penalties, and the Bill provides for a penalty of up to five years gaol for offences involving the forgery of passports. The Opposition has no quarrel with this provision. It is obvious and necessary. However, it is concerned about the stiff increases in penalties for what appear to be fairly minor offences. No reason has been given by the Government for these dramatic increases. In the second reading speech, the Minister pointed out that the Government was concerned with traffic in lost, stolen and forged passports but has given no indication that there has been any increase in that sort of traffic in Australian passports. No information has been provided concerning the incidence of offences of this type and certainly no justification has been provided for the increased penalties. In those circumstances, the Opposition will move a number of amendments seeking to reduce the penalties in a number of cases. 
It is clear from the second reading speech and from the Bill that much of the administration of passport legislation will depend on the policies of the government of the day. These policies may change from time to time but will not be spelt out in legislation. One of these issues has given rise to very serious concern in recent times. There is considerable concern in many sections of the community about the need to show on Australian passports the place of birth. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recommended in its 1976 report on dual nationality that consideration be given to deleting this requirement. The Minister has indicated that the Government is not prepared to accept this proposal. He pointed out that a number of countries would not accept passports which did not show any place of birth; thus the absence of this information would inconvenience a large number of Australian travellers. 
On that basis the Government intends to continue with the practice of showing this information on the passport. This practice is not suitable to many naturalised Australians and other Australians born outside this country who do not wish to have their place of birth stated on their passports. Many of these passports holders may be caused difficulties because of the provision of this information. For this reason, the Opposition sees considerable merit in giving passport holders an option as to whether their place of birth appears on the passport. This would ensure that for the majority of Australians who are not concerned with this issue, their travelling rights around the world would not be restricted in any way as a result of passport policy. On the other hand, people who elect to have this information removed from their passports should be able to do so on being informed of the potential difficulties they will face in gaining entry into certain countries. It seems quite reasonable to the Opposition that such an option should be available and it urges the Government to consider adopting this course in the future. For that reason, the Opposition proposes an amendment to the second reading speech, and I move: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the place of birth should bc disclosed on a passport only if the holder or applicant so elects '. 
-As I understand it,  Senator Knight  sought some elucidation from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in response to what  Senator Tate  put forward. We did not get that elucidation because the waters are even more muddied than they were when the discussion first started. I always enjoy  Senator Carrick  's excursions into the realms of the political philosophers of the times from which he comes- the eighteenth century. But I fail to see their appropriateness to this discussion. 
Well, yes. 
In that case the Minister would not be delighted but bitterly upset, I am sure. As I understand it, the point of  Senator Tate's  comment is simply that an Australian citizen going to a country in the group mentioned would comply with the law of that state by filling in the appropriate form which that state requires to be filled in- either an application for a visa or an entry card- and would write his place of birth on that form. The point that  Senator Tate  was making was that that compliance with the law of a particular state is really all that should be required of an Australian citizen. The inclusion of the place of birth in the passport adds nothing to that requirement of the law of the particular state. All it does is to provide a system of mirror photographs, as it were. It is like being asked to provide one's driving licence to prove one's signature. In a passport there are many things which relate to that point- the photograph and so on. It is not a question of the place of birth being an essential piece of information in terms of international law. 
Of course, but what  Senator Tate  is putting is that we as Australian citizens should not be required by the domestic requirements of other states to put the place of birth in the passport. It should be sufficient to provide that information in another way. I follow what  Senator Carrick  said in his answer, namely, that any freedoms must be limited by the overriding freedoms of others. That is to say, freedom as an individual notion exists subject to the qualification of respect for the freedom of others. But surely there is not an issue of that order in the discussion which has taken place here today. The analogy seems to me to be totally inappropriate. For that reason, I support the observations which were made by  Senator Tate  and which, with respect, do not seem to have been answered. 
I appreciate that the answer just given by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to  Senator Knight's  question was a qualified answer. As I understand it, it was to the effect that it is envisaged that reasons for a refusal to issue a passport, for example, will be given and that those reasons will be consistent with clause 7 of the Bill. A matter which particularly concerns me is what the situation would be with a decision to refuse to issue a passport for reasons which are not stated in the legislation- I take is that such reasons still exist- essentially as a matter of ministerial discretion. I refer to refusal on the grounds of security reports. For a very long period in Australia that was a ground for refusal which operated to the detriment of many migrants in this country. 
-The Opposition proposes to move two amendments to clause 8. The intention of the proposed amendments is to affect proposed sub-section  7A(1)  and  7A(2)  contained in the Bill. Under proposed section  7A,  restrictions are placed on an authorised officer in the issue of passports to unmarried minors. The combined effect of those two proposed sub-sections is that an authorised officer, unless directed by the Minister, may issue a passport to a person who is unmarried and who is not 18 years of age only in very restricted circumstances. 
However, proposed section 7A does not deal with the situation of a very young minor whose name may be included on the passport of an adult, who is likely to be a parent or guardian of that minor. Under existing passport practice it is not necessary to issue a very young minor with a passport but rather to make an entry on the passport of that minor's parent or guardian. The proposed section places no limits on the powers of an authorised officer to make such an entry. In the case of a very young minor being taken out of the country under circumstances not contemplated by the section, there are no restrictions on an authorised officer as in the case of a young minor with a separate passport. The intention of these two amendments is to remedy that defect in the legislation and the Opposition hope that the Government will consider the matter seriously. It seems to be an anomalous situation in terms of the function of an authorised officer as contemplated by this clause of the Bill. I move: 
Page 3, clause 8, proposed new sub-section 7a ( 1 ), line 13, at end of proposed new sub-section, add 'nor include such a person on a passport issued to another person'. 
Page 3, proposed sub-section 7A (2), line 17, after 'years', insert 'or include such a person on a passport issued to another person '. 
I move: 
Page 4, clause 8, proposed new sub-section 7e(2), leave out 'notice', insert 'notification by the Minister". 
The amendment relates to that part of clause 8 which proposes to insert new section 7E (2). Under sub-section ( 1 ) of the proposed new section an authorised officer shall not issue a passport to a person if the Minister has notified the authorised officer that he has formed certain opinions about what that person would do outside Australia. The wording of the proposed section is: '. . . if the Minister has notified the authorised officer that . . . ' Under proposed new section 7E (2) the notification given by the Minister ceases to have effect upon the giving to the authorised officer of a notice stating that the notification has ceased to have effect. The first point to note about the clause is that there is no explanation of a difference in wording of the section, in that the words notice and notification appear to be interchangeable. I ask the Minister to indicate what is a notification, what is a notice, and what is the difference? Perhaps that knowledge would help us along the way considerably. More importantly, I want to draw attention, in relation to this amendment, to the fact that the notice under sub-section (2) need not necessarily be given by the Minister. In other words, the Minister may notify the authorised officer under sub-section ( 1 ) and subsequently the authorised officer may receive a notice cancelling the notification. That notice does not have to be given by the Minister. It can be given by somebody else, for example, a person in a superior position to the authorised officer, such as the permanent head. 
It seems to the Opposition inappropriate that someone other than the Minister could cancel a notification given by the Minister unless that is deliberately intended by the Government. I seek clarification in relation to that. Again, I reiterate that there may be a satisfactory explanation. In the absence of an explanation, as we read the Bill at the present time, the Opposition's amendment is to ensure that both the notice and the notification have to come from the Minister. We also need to understand what each of them is. 
-I move: 
Page 4, clause 8, at end of clause, add the following new proposed section:  7f. Within 30 days of receipt of a passport application, an authorised officer shall issue a passport or inform the applicant that his passport application has been denied or is still under consideration, specifying the section and subsection of the Act under which the application is denied or is under consideration.'. 
The amendment adds a new proposed section 7F. Throughout the second reading stage I referred to the absence from the Bill of any time limits on the Minister or any authorised officer in making a decision on the issue of a passport. The Opposition indicated earlier that it believed that this situation is unjust to applicants. They may have to wait for some time without a decision by the Government. That means in effect that the applicant could for a long time be denied a passport by default without any explanation. During the discussion of earlier clauses, I indicated that in the past this situation has been known to run for years. To overcome this defect, the Opposition proposes an amendment to the Bill which would ensure that the Minister or an authorised officer must make some decision within 30 days. I appreciate that  Senator Carrick,  in the course of his reply at the second reading stage, said that it may not be possible for a decision to be made within 30 days because advice has to be received from outside offices and so on. With respect, that may be a reason for saying that it should not be 30 days, that it should be 60 days or something like that. It is not a reason for not grappling with the point of principle that a person should not be left in limbo awaiting a decision which in effect amounts to a refusal to issue a passport and no decision having to be given because the Government has not applied its mind to the question, or for some other reason. 
In addition to that, because unusual circumstances are covered by the clause, the Opposition proposes in this amendment that even in situations where either the Minister or an authorised officer has not made up his mind, or that there are reasons for delaying the decision, the applicant can be so notified, which in a sense is a further way of dealing with the point which the Minister made in his reply at the second reading stage. There are two ways of handling the problem which the Minister foreshadowed, apparently as the Government's reason for the rejection of this amendment. We would say on the Opposition side that the amendment is a minor restriction on the freedom of the Minister or the authorised officer. The Opposition believes that such a freedom of an applicant for a passport is highly appropriate. I now get back to the discussion of the great philosophers of the eighteenth century, the balance of freedoms and so on.  Senator Carrick  will no doubt take that further in his reply. The failure by the Minister or an authorised officer to act within the time limits proposed should attract the right of appeal by the applicant. That is a matter which we can discuss in a later amendment. That appeal, in our view, should be to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
What we are concerned about here is a point of principle whereby an applicant can be left in limbo. We say that if there are reasons for the delay beyond 30 days, the Minister or authorised officer should inform the applicant that there are special reasons why there is a delay or, alternatively, if the time of 30 days is too short the Government should look at the question of providing a longer time in which the Minister or authorised officer has to give the applicant some sort of answer. I would have thought that this is a reasonable proposition which would appeal to the alert libertarians on the Government benches in that section of the Senate and should have the support of the Senate. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South Wales)Minister for Education) (5.21)- During my response at the second reading stage of the Bill, I dealt at length with this matter. I do not think that I should weary the Senate with canvassing the ground now. I pointed out that the great bulk of applications is dealt with within two or three days. I pointed out the impracticality of the amendment itself. Fundamentally, if the Passport Act is brought under the Administrative Appeals Tribunal the 30-day concept of a proposal would certainly not be necessary, as the Ombudsman Act already provides for application to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for any review of failure to carry out acts which are subject to appeal before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It would seem that the obvious thing to do is to provide an appeals device which can look to the heart of things. It may not take 30 days. It may well be that somebody needs action to be taken in much greater urgency and requires an appeals device. I believe that the combination of what the Act intends now and the appeals which have been foreshadowed for the future is a better solution than the Opposition proposes. We would reject the amendment. 
-The point that I was seeking to make is, with respect, being missed by the Minister. First of all, it is not sufficient for the Minister to say that the bulk of passport applications is dealt with very expeditiously within two or three weeks. 
Two or three days, I am sorry. For the purpose of the argument I wish to put, the time is immaterial. It is not sufficient to talk about the bulk being dealt with in a short period. What the amendment is concerned about is, as it were, the hard case, the exceptional case, which may result in detriment to a particular applicant. With the greatest respect, in the context of the discussion on this Bill, it is not sufficient for us as an Opposition to say that we accept that the Government is- if I may use the Minister's word- contemplating an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which would embrace these sorts of matters. The third argument, really, which is advanced by the Minister is that this is impractical. What we are concerned about is that some provision should be inserted which protects the applicant in the difficult situation and which is practical. In our submission, it is specious to reject it on the basis that 30 days may be impractical. 
-A number of amendments to clauses 9 to 13 have been circulated by the Opposition. They are numbered 5 to 1 5 inclusive. I seek leave to move the amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
Page 5, clause 9, sub-clause ( 1 ), paragraph (a), lines 3 and 4, leave out " 'Imprisonment for 1 year' ", insert " '$500 or imprisonment for 3 months' ". 
Page 5, clause 9. sub-clause (1 ), paragraph (e), lines 20 and 21, leave out "'Imprisonment for 1 year'", insert " '$500 or imprisonment for 3 months ' ". 
Page 5, clause 9. sub-clause (3), lines 39 and 40, leave out "imprisonment for a period not exceeding 1 year", insert "a line of $500 or imprisonment for 3 months". 
Page 6, clause 10, proposed new section 8a. line 12, leave out "Imprisonment for 1 year", insert "$500 or imprisonment for 3 months". 
Page 6, clause11. paragraph (a), proposed sub-section (1) line 26, leave out "Imprisonment for 1 year", insert "$500 or imprisonment Tor 3 months". 
Page 6. clause 1 1, paragraph (c), lines 30 and 31, leave out " 'Imprisonment for1 year' ". insert " '$500 or imprisonment for 3 months' ". 
Page 6, clause 1 1. paragraph (d), lines 33 and 34, leave out " 'Imprisonment for1 year' ", insert " '$500 or imprisonment for 3 months' ". 
Page 7. clause 12, proposed paragraph 9a (g), lines 21 and 22, leave out "imprisonment for a period not exceeding 2 years", insert "a fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment for6 months". 
Page 8, clause 12, proposed new section 9c, line 9, leave out "Imprisonment for 2 years", insert "$ 1 , 000 or imprisonment for 6 months". 
Page 8, clause 13, proposed section 10, line 28, leave out "Imprisonment for 2 years", insert "$1,000 or imprisonment for6 months". 
Page 8, clause 13, proposed section II, lines 29 to 43, leave out the proposed section, insert the following section: "'11. (1 ) Subject to sub-section (3), proceedings in a court of summary jurisdiction for any offence against this Act may be instituted either in the State or Territory where the offence was committed or in the State or Territory in which the defendant is found. " '(2) Subject to sub-sections (3) and (4), a prosecution for an offence under section 9b will be on indictment. " '(3) Where a person is charged with an offence under section 9b, a court of summary jurisdiction may, with the consent of the defendant and of the prosecutor and if the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, determine the charge summarily. "'(4) Where, in accordance with sub-section (3), a court of summary jurisdiction convicts a person of an offence under section 9b, the penalty that the court may impose is a fine not exceeding $2,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding1 year, or both'.". 
Our amendments basically deal with the penalties in the Bill. In the course of the second reading debate I indicated that we felt that the penalties proposed were too severe in many cases for what were relatively minor offences. The Opposition proposes the reduction of all penalties with the exception of the penalty for forgery, which is included in clause 12 and which proposes the insertion of a new section 9 (b). For a start, we believe that some of these offences should not be indictable offences. It seems most unjust that to fail to notify the loss of a passport should be an indictable offence under any circumstance. One could go through the offences covered in this Bill and see similar situations. The Opposition is proposing this course because, firstly, under the existing Act penalties for offences leave the court with an option to impose a fine or imprisonment. The Opposition is seeking to ensure that the courts have the option which they have under the existing Act; that is to say, that there is a discretion in the court. We also believe that the maximum sentences proposed under the Bill for most of these offences are too severe. However, we recognise that maximum fines under the existing Act are too low in view of the time that has elapsed since these fines were included in the Act and the change in money values that has occurred. As a result we have proposed the changes with the exception of the penalties dealing with forgery which we consider appropriate. 
The Opposition proposes that for each offence attracting a penalty of one year's gaol the penalty be varied to read '$500 or imprisonment for three months'. Where the proposed penalty is two years' gaol the Opposition suggests the substitution of a fine not exceeding $ 1 , 000 or imprisonment for six months. If these changes are acceptable to the Government it would be necessary to vary proposed section 1 1 which makes all offences under the Act indictable. Under the Opposition's proposed amendments only the offence of forgery would be an indictable offence while the rest would remain as summary offences. 
A significant reason in convincing the Opposition that this would be the correct approach was that the Government has failed to indicate any reasons why it has substantially increased the penalties, apart from the ones we recognise as necessary due to the change in money values. It has not pointed to an upsurge in the breaches of the provisions of the old Passports Act. It has not been argued that the Government is having difficulty in regulating the provisions of the old Passports Act. We have been told nothing about the rate of convictions or penalties imposed under the previous legislation. It seems that little thought has been given to the change in penalties. The Opposition suggests that the Government should give serious consideration to the suggested amendments, the most important aspect of them being the apparent imbalance between the penalty for forgery and the penalty for minor offences such as losing one 's passport. In our view forgery is a serious offence and the others are not. 
-The remaining amendment is amendment No. 16, which has been circulated by the Opposition. I move: 
Page 8, after clause 13, insert the following new clause: " 1 3a. After section 1 1 of the  Prinicpal  Act the following section is inserted: 
 I 1a. Applications may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of: 
a refusal by the Minister to issue an Australian passport under section 7; 
a refusal by an authorised officer to issue an Australian passport under section 7, 7A, 7B, 7C, 7D, 7E or 7F: or 
the cancellation of an Australian passport by the Minister or an authorised officer under section 8.V. 
I should indicate that during the second reading debate I pointed out that there was no appeal from the very wide discretion of the Minister and his authorised officers, and we saw no reason why these matters should not be subject to an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. From the exchanges which we have had at various stages of the debate, it is quite clear that the Government is contemplating this course but it is not in a position at this stage to do anything about it. I do not quite see why. I had difficulty in understanding the view which  Senator Knight  expressed, which was that somehow by watching the operation of this Bill when it becomes an Act there will be some new wisdom as to how many people wanted to appeal, why they wanted to appeal and so on. When one considers that the operation of the principal Act goes back a large number of years- I am fully aware that there is no appeals provision in that Act- one would have thought that that experience would already have been available to the Department, and an appeals provision of this kind could be inserted. When I say that there is no appeals provision in the present legislation, I am saying that the environment in relation to the rights of the subject, the rights of the citizen, has changed considerably in the last few years as a result of legislation of the previous Government and of this Government. This legislation should be made consistent with that changed environment in relation to these matters. 
We strongly commend to the Government the proposal set out in this amendment. We would derogate from our function as an Opposition if we accepted contemplations of the Government. All sorts of things are within human contemplation but they are not necessarily attained. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Crimes (Aircraft) Amendment Bill. As the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  indicated in his second reading speech when introducing the Bill, when it is passed there will be discussions with State Attorneys-General to try to provide a uniform enactment throughout Australia to cover airports in relation to hoaxes, hoax telephone calls, fake bomb threats and home-made bomb threats at airports. The purpose of the legislation is to protect the travelling public and aircraft from a variety of offences associated with airports and air navigation and to provide substantial penalties for these offences. We welcome all of these matters which are undoubtedly necessary. We take the view that this is a very cheap form of legislation when one considers legislation of this kind and, for example, the estimated $30m which will be required, we understand, to ensure the air travel security of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This is a very cheap Bill. 
No, I am referring to this Prime Minister. There are only three leaders in the world- President Carter, the late lamented Idi Amin and Malcolm Fraser- who require aircraft of this kind. So it is not any Prime Minister. As Opposition spokesman on education, I recall that the amount involved in the purchase of the Prime Minister's VIP aircraft would build 30 schools in Australia. I find it unfortunate that some citizens must have their security assured at that cost to the Australian taxpayer. The cost of this legislation, however, is quite cheap and, we hope, effective. We hope also that it is complimented by legislation of the State parliaments. We commend the legislation to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Does a recently promulgated Soviet law, operative from 1 July 1979: (a) declare that all persons both in territories now forming part of the USSR as well as their children, are Soviet citizens; and (b) make renouncing Soviet citizenship a punishable crime. (See the report of an article in Tygodnik Polski', 14 July 1979, contained in 'From the Ethnic Press' 24 July 1979.) 
Is the aim of this law to discourage Soviet emigrants from visiting their countries of origin, particularly for the Moscow Olympics. 
Has the Australian Government made any representations to the USSR regarding this law. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What action has been taken to introduce legislation for the protection of plant breeders ' rights in Australia. 
Will any action taken ensure that free availability of genetic material for breeding purposes is not inhibited while protecting legitimate commercial rights. 
What action has been taken to set up germ plasm banks to ensure preservation of basic genetic material. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
1 ) What was the total cost of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's inquiry into Self-Regulation, conducted during 1977 and 1978. 
How many persons gave evidence before the Tribunal during the Self-Regulation Inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the value of all benefits available under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme. 
) What means test conditions apply to this assistance. 
What has been the value, in constant prices, of all assistance for each year since 1972, and what index base line has been used in estimating constant price values. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Has considerable concern been expressed about the problems of the State Colleges of Victoria meeting increasing staff superannuation commitments. 
Is money being given in recurrent funding to enable the creation of reserves to pay superannuation. 
Has the Tertiary Education Commission or the Government determined any policy on the matter; if not, when does the Commission propose to take action on the matter. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
What has been the cost, to 4 June 1979, of each Royal Commission and inquiry set up by the Federal Government since December 1975. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) Are awards given for postgraduate study by: (a) individual universities (b) companies (c) endowments; and (d) other non-Commonwealth sources, taxable. 
Why, if any category is not taxable, is it treated differently to commonwealth Postgraduate awards, which are taxable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) When was the Florence Agreement adopted by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. 
What are the principal products covered by the Agreement. 
How many and which countries have ratified the Florence Agreement. 
For what reasons has the Australian Government decided that Australia should not ratify the Agreement. 
Would ratification of the Agreement involve a cost to the Government in revenue terms; if so, what is the estimated cost. 
Is the Government any closer to ratifying the Agreement, following the Minister's recent call at the United Nations General Assembly in New York for the dismantling of existing protectionist barriers. 
