I address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Is it a fact that the official cars of Australian ambassadors and heads of missions overseas are mostly, if not all, of foreign make? Bearing in mind its importance to the national image overseas and the fact that suitable Australian cars are now available, will the Minister ensure that all cars in future provided for overseas missions, including those for ambassadors and heads of missions, are of distinctly Australian make? 

 - Mr Speaker, I am honoured to be here as the first representative of the new electorate of Isaacs and to be a member of this House during a period when decisions will have to be made which may affect the lives of all of us for many years to come. We must question where we are going and where we wish to go. Not the least of these fields of critical inquiry must be the future of our manufacturing industry which today employs nearly one-third of our national work force. One of the facts we have to face is that we must increase our exports if we are to achieve our expectations of growth. The Export Development Council recently forecast that we have 7 years in which to double our exports if we are to be able to pay for the imports necessary to sustain our economic growth at the present rate. No matter how high we set our expectations from minerals and from agricultural products, a very substantial gap will have to be filled by manufactured exports, and can be filled in no other way. 
It is encouraging that manufactured exports have risen steadily to the point where they now amount to 19% of our total exports, but this gives no room for complacency. Manufactured exports by 1977 will have to contribute something like $ 1,750m out of a total export income in the vicinity of $6,000m. This means that our manufactured export earnings must treble in the next 7 years. To achieve such an increase our present rate of capital investment in industry will have to be doubled. This will not be achieved by mere chance or by the unguided operation of market forces, lt will require a sustained and carefully co-ordinated programme of guidance and help in every aspect of our secondary industry - a continuation and expansion of the Government guidance which has been  so  successful in the past. 
When there is a major problem to be solved there is a natural tendency to look for a panacea, a single solution to a complex problem. There is no such panacea for the problems of our secondary industry. Action must be taken on nearly every facet of our industrial affairs. Each of these is a subject in itself, but I must deal briefly with all of them so that they can be seen in perspective as a co-ordinated whole. What can we do to help? The decision to establish an Industry Development Corporation is a momentous step and if it succeeds in converting some of our capital inflow into fixed interest loans in Australian hands instead of being equity in foreign hands, and if it can also succeed in marshalling additional capital for this purpose, it will contribute greatly to the development of Australian industry and will increase Australian ownership of Australian industry. But I believe that the function of the Industry Development Corporation must also be that of an equity taker of last resort. 
If the guidelines for overseas investment work properly - and if they do not work properly they will have to be strengthened until they do - equity should be available to Australians in overseas companies setting up in this country. But if this offer of equity is not taken up by Australian investors it should be open to the Industry Development Corporation to do so, and it should do so in worthwhile cases. Nevertheless it is essential that the Industry Development Corporation should be required to divest itself of its holdings as soon as possible after the development phase has been completed, and obviously it must transfer its holdings into Australian hands, otherwise the whole purpose of the exercise will be defeated. But important though the Industry Development Corporation may be, it alone will not stimulate the necessary level of industrial investment. Other measures also will be needed. The taxation allowance has been a powerful stimulus to investment but it has the defect that it is of too short a term. Federal Budgets run from year to year but industrial capital investment frequently has to be planned at least 5 years ahead. I believe that an assurance by the Government of 5 years continuity of the level of investment allowances would have a beneficial effect on the planning of our industrial development. 
I must touch on the question of tariffs - as long as the modest back bencher does not object - because tariffs have been an important factor in the development of our secondary industries and are certain to be vital to their continued survival and expansion. The question of tariffs is, however, so complex that I should like to confine myself to 3 points. The first point is that it must remain clear, as it is now, that the Tariff Board is an investigatory and advisory body only, and the final decision on tariffs must be made by the Government. The second point is that when the Tariff Board is given economic guidance by the Government, this guidance must also take account of business criteria. Perhaps the best example of this problem was the guidance given on the future of the machine tool industry which was built up with such great difficulty and which is so important to our defence capacity. The directive on the importance of this industry stated that it should remain as a nucleus but should not be encouraged to expand. This might have made good sense to a civil servant but its effect has been that the machine tool industry is now in a state of disintegration, because no competent businessman would allow his resources to be locked up in an industry which had no prospects of growth. 
We also need the Tariff Board to be required to report in much more detail than it usually does on the secondary economic effects of its tariff recommendations, because this House, and the Government, cannot make an informed decision on a tariff proposal unless they know the expected secondary effects. These unrevealed secondary effects are frequently of great importance to our economy and to our export potential in particular. But whether through tariff changes or other factors, as technology develops and trade conditions change it is inevitable that some of our existing industries will become economically redundant, and the quicker we can shift our national resources out of these industries and into more rewarding fields the better for the economic well-being of the community as a whole. The difficulty is that these uneconomic industries are usually the very ones that are short of capital to allow them to shift into a new field. If we allow the ordinary market forces to take their course the adjustment will inevitably be somewhat painful and inefficient. 
In many other countries various measures have been adopted whereby the community as a whole meets most of the costs involved because the community as a whole will ultimately benefit substantially from the reorganisation. The Common Market countries, the United States, Canada and Britain all have adjustment assistance provisions designed to facilitate the redeployment of resources into more economic and efficient fields. The provisions obviously vary with the circumstances but the idea is the same and extends from relocating industries and labour to retraining workers, research assistance, special rate finance and, where these are inadequate, to actual financial compensation. I believe that the efficient development of Australian industry demands such provisions. 
The need for increased Commonwealth involvement in charting the future course of Australian industry may be seen by observing some of the developmental activities of the States. One of the factors which decreases the efficiency of Australian industry is the desire of each of the States to have all types of industry set up within its borders, whether this makes economic sense or not. I have been told that at least one State has a shopping list of industries which are not yet set up within its boundaries. The States attempt to lure industries by offering special conditions for power, transport or rates or other incentives - concessions for which the community ultimately pays. The effect of these efforts by the States is to fragment our industrial production in many cases and create several inefficient production units instead of one efficient unit. The division of power as between the Commonwealth and the States makes this a very difficult problem to tackle, but I believe that this Government should do all in its power to ensure a better coordination of these activities. The economic unit is Australia, not six separate States. 
Of course, increased capital investment is only one aspect of the development of our secondary industries. Our ability to export and to replace imports economically ultimately depends on our prices, and wages are the fastest growing component of industrial prices. Wage fixing by the Arbitration Commission has been under attack in recent weeks, but I believe that the attack has been on the wrong objectives. What is wrong with wage fixing by the Arbitration Commission is not that the Commission is biased and certainly not that it is under outside influence. What may be wrong is that the procedure - the adversary procedure of the law courts - is inappropriate to the problem of fixing a national wage. Also, when the arbitration court was set up in the early 1900s economic theory and the understanding of the role of government in economic matters were very much less developed than they are today. I would suggest that all members of the Arbitration Commission should have formal economic training. They should abandon the use of the adversary procedure of the law courts, with its cumbersome processes and overelaborate rules of evidence. 1 believe that if these two things were clone wage decisions would be quicker and wiser. Nevertheless, we must recognise that rises in wages are inevitable and proper not only to compensate for the unavoidable inflationary effects of full employment but also to allow 'he work force as a whole to share in the rising national wealth, for increased productivity is only very rarely reflected in decreased prices. 
Balanced against wages must be productivity, lt is extremely difficult to establish the productivity of the Australian work force compared with that of other countries, but one fact stands out. Compared with America Australia has less than half the power assistance available per worker. If we wish to increase our productivity it is obvious that the most effective method is increased provision of labour saving equipment. This brings us back to the importance of investment. The efficiency of management is equally difficult to establish. In some sections of Australian industry there is a belief that management skill is achieved only through experience; that by being seated at his desk an executive absorbs management skill - presumably through the seat of his pants. This, of course, is nonsense. I do not want to belittle the importance of experience, but it is a very rare individual whose management .skill would not be improved by formal study of his profession. Comparative international statistics are very difficult to obtain, but as far as I can establish Australia has proportionately only one-fifth the number of business executives who have completed courses compared with the United Slates and less than one-twentieth the number who have completed formal management training. The recent steps taken by the Government to investigate business management training will help to overcome this deplorable situation, but we are dealing with an ingrained attitude. 
The bigger firms already recognise the importance of management training, but this is not by any means always true of the smaller firms. It is worth remembering that manufacturing firms with less than 50 employees make up 93% of the factories in Australia and employ one-third of the secondary industry work force. I think it would be worth while considering government sponsored management training teams to assist these smaller firms, but whatever we do the process of improvement is likely to be slow because we are dealing with an attitude of mind, and attitudes are far more difficult to change than legislation. 
Australian industry is also lagging behind other countries in the amount of our resources which we are devoting to research and development. A survey completed by the Australian Industrial Research Group in 1968 showed. 'that as a proportion of the gross national product Japan spent 6 times as much as Australia on research and development, Britain 10 times as much and America 15 times as much. Our claim to fame seems to be that we are spending more than Greece and Spain. It is inevitable that we will have to borrow some techniques from overseas, but we must reduce the extent of this dependence, because there are serious drawbacks in such a policy. Licence and royalty fees are growing every year. Last year they amounted to $60m, and this figure is likely to double every 5 years. Unless the trend is corrected there will inevitably be a serious effect on our balance of payments position. If we rely on skill and knowledge acquired by licences and royalties we will1 inevitably lag behind our competitors in design and manufacturing techniques, with bad effects on our exports. Moreover, with licence and royalty agreements there are frequently franchise restrictions which deny us the right to sell overseas in competition with the company which made the original design. 
The setting up of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board was admirable in purpose but so far it has not had sufficient effect, perhaps because of minor defects in the legislation. Improving the standard and quantity of our research and development is so urgent that I consider that the review of the Act, mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, should be considered without delay. We are an inventive people and in our industry we must not remain a crowd of copyists. 
The enormous industrial advance we require over the next 10 years will not be achieved by any single measure. It is only by consistently pursuing a number of complementary policies that we will achieve success. If we take all these measures, no one of which is an answer in itself, we can achieve the industrial advance necessary to sustain the rising standard of living to which our people have a right. But increased wealth does not necessarily mean increased happiness, although it does provide a base which makes increased happiness possible. We must ensure that our increased national wealth is shared by those who need it most, whatever the cause of their need. 
While we are expanding our economy, we must see that we do not destroy our surroundings. There has been, in the last few years, a vast upsurge of interest in conservation, in preserving our natural assets and beauties. I believe that this quickening interest in conservation is one of the best things that has happened in Australia. But no longer is it enough to conserve what we have. We must also restore what we have lost, and our physical surroundings are not all. We must also enrich our cultural surroundings. In Australia, we do not have any great cultural heritage, nor do we have any enormously wealthy individuals, as there are in America, to endow cultural organisations. For these reasons, we have a greater need than practically any other country for government encouragement and government assistance to the arts. The setting up of the Council for the Arts in 1968, the doubling of its grant in the Budget for this financial year and the announcement of the intention of the Government to establish an Australian film development corporation are most significant steps in our cultural progress. 
Australia is one of the few great democracies to be established in the twentieth century. We are the only country that has a continent to itself. We have the chance and the opportunity of building a great society here. We must not be afraid of excellence. Our target must always be just beyond our horizon. True, we are relatively small in population. But ancient Athens never had more than 60,000 free citizens, yet their achievements in art and science, in politics and philosophy, are still remembered after more than 2,000 years. If, here in Australia, we can build a society that is secure and yet free; which encourages enterprise and yet gives social justice; which expands its economy yet preserves and improves its cultural and physical surroundings; if we can build such a society - and we can - we will become the wonder and the example of the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Before 1 call ihe honourable member for Burke, 1 would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
Does the Minister for Education and Science agree that the standards in many areas of the State education systems are well below the desirable standards? Accepting that it is necessary to have the facts before taking action, can the Minister say when the co-ordinated inquiry into educational needs being conducted by the States will be completed? 
The health care of a developing community such as ours is one of the most important and, at the same time, one of the most difficult tasks of government. In this debate we are considering only I aspect of a complex problem. Other aspects, such as hospital facilities and care of pensioners and the aged, will, I presume, be considered in later debates. In considering a health plan one has to steer a course between 2 dangers. One can see the perils of an over-regimented medical system such as in England, which aims at equality but only achieves inefficiency. On the other hand one can see the danger of a system such as that in America where medical resources are allocated mainly on the ability to pay and proper medical care is beyond the reach of many people. We must avoid both these extremes. There are certain principles which 1 believe we must follow. The first is that no-one must be denied reasonable medical care because of his financial status. The second is that there must be a reasonable freedom of choice for both the patient and the medical practitioner. The third principle is that the national expenditure on health must rema n in balance with our expenditure in other areas such as education, national development and social welfare. 
This new health benefits plan has had some vicissitudes and there are still some anomalies in the proposed fees which will have to be corrected; but basically the plan is sound. In this country, where we are endeavouring to achieve an efficient voluntary health scheme the co-operation of many parties is required. The medical profession, the insurance firms and the Government should all aim at achieving the best results, not primarily for themselves but for the community as a whole. If this co-operation can be maintained a voluntary health scheme will work better for the community than any compulsory socialistic scheme, but if this co-operation falters there will be pressures from the community for a system of nationalised medicine, and this would be a disastrous step for the health care of the community. 
Many members of the medical profession seem to think that the Constitution is an effective bar to the nationalisation of medicine as in England, but there are at least 2 ways in which the Constitution can be circumvented by a Socialist government determined on nationalisation. The most obvious of these would be a participating doctors scheme under which medical benefits would be payable only to patients whose doctors practised in a manner and at fees fixed by the government. To avoid the muddle and inefficiency of nationalised health services we must all work together to sustain and improve the voluntary scheme, of which this new health benefits plan is a vital component. 
The first principle of the voluntary health scheme is that no-One shall be denied reasonable medical care because of his financial status. The differential rebates in the new plan are essential if we are to achieve this aim. Whatever we do about the fees of general practitioners', it is certain that specialists will still charge more for similar services, and without differential rebates patients who have to have specialist treatment would be financially penalised. These differential charges are not the invention of the Government; they merely recognise a feature of medical fees which has been in existence for many years. It is not unreasonable for specialists to charge more. The cases which are referred to them are usually the more complex and difficult ones. 
The necessity for some differential fees was recognised in the submission of the College of General Practitioners, when it recommended that an extra rebate should be paid on the recommendation of the referring doctor. Clearly the referral is the key to the successful operation of the system. The specialist benefit should not be payable unless a signed referral from a general practitioner is attached to the claim. This should remove one of the chief worries of the general practitioners. It has also been suggested that patients will insist on being referred unnecessarily to a specialist, but I believe that the confidence of patients in their general practitioners and the inconvenience of making a separate visit to a specialist will make this type of abuse relatively rare. If it does become prevalent, it will be possible to adopt some variant of the proposal of the College of General Practitioners so that the higher specialist benefits would be payable only of the general practitioner in his referral certified that it was a case beyond his personal capabiilty 
But, even when the costs of the various procedures are agreed, there will still be a number of anomalies that require urgent attention. The first is the extraordinary discrepancy between charges for similar services in different States and, in the case of New South Wales, between parts of a State, lt seems that the medical profession was previously unaware that these discrepancies existed, and I hope that we will soon see machinery set up whereby these anomalies will be eliminated. It would be absurd if future adjustments to fees were based on such insecure foundations. We also need, of course, some agreed machinery whereby these charges can be updated at intervals of, say, 2 years. This will be one of the most difficult problems because the medical profession is traditionally jealous of its rights to set its own fees. But each doctor in private practice in Australia next year will receive an average of $8,500 of public funds from the Federal Treasury, and the Government has a responsibility to the taxpayer to see that any increases in these amounts are economically and socially justified. 
Although this new health benefits plan greatly improves the fairness of the health scheme, one great anomaly remains. I refer to the allowable deductions for medical insurance premiums. An income tax deduction of $1 is worth nearly 3 times as much to a man on $12,000 a year as it is to a man on $2,000. These deductions, in effect, represent a cash payment by the Government to assist the taxpayer in meeting his medical insurance contributions, and it has some odd effects. This deduction, coupled with the assistance given to low income families who pay their insurance premiums, produces this situation: People on below $42.50 a week get Government assistance to pay all their health insurance premiums; people on less than $45.50 a week and more than $61.50 a week get two-thirds of their insurance premiums paid for them; people on less than $48.50 a week and more than $70 a week get one-third of their insurance premiums paid for them; and the people in the middle - that is those on between $48.50 and $70 a week - get least. They have less than one-third of their insurance contributions paid for them. 
I believe that this situation needs examination. The best estimate the Legislative Research Service could provide for me was that the deductions allowed for health benefits contributions reduce Treasury revenue by about $30m a year. I think we should consider eliminating the income tax deductions for insurance premiums and use the $30m increase in Federal revenue to increase the Commonwealth contribution to health benefits and thus reduce the insurance contributions of everyone equally. 
No matter how good our health insurance arrangements are, they will avail us little if we do not have enough doctors, lt has been suggested that this new health benefits plan will cause a decline in the prestige of general practice and a fall in the number of general practitioners. I do not think this is true. The decline in general practice is a world wide trend, and the trend is most advanced in the United States, the country the health policy of which is most under the control of the medical profession. What is the situation in Australia? The most recent study of medical manpower was made in 1967 by  Mr R.  B. Scotton. In an article in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' he suggested that, in terms of the number of medical practitioners per head of population, Australia was at that time better off than England and New Zealand, and by now would probably be better off than Canada and nearly as well off as the United States. He also pointed out that the number of medical graduates from our universities would cause a steady improvement in the doctor-patient ratio. 
But this refers to the total number of medical' practitioners. Our number of general practitioners does not seem to be rising in proportion to the population, and there is some evidence that their average age is increasing. Why is the proportion of general practitioners in the medical profession steadily falling? The reason does not seem to be financial. From the results of a survey recently carried out by the University of Melbourne, it seems that the average earnings of a general practitioner in Victoria are higher than those of any other profession and are exceeded only marginally by his specialist colleagues. In fact, the average lifetime earnings of a general practitioner seem likely to be higher than those of the average specialist. Of course, the general practitioner has to work hard for his income. He has long and erratic hours - much longer and more erratic than most specialists. But on the other hand, the general practitioner, as the family doctor, has a most important role in the community - a role that is most rewarding to those who are motivated in this way. 
The recently established College of General Practitioners is working hard to improve the prestige of general practice. The most important means to this end is an increase in post-graduate ' training of general practitioners. It is a sobering thought that a general practitioner can practise for 50 years or more after qualifying without ever undergoing any further formal training or qualification, or even any private study. Of course, the great majority of general practitioners endeavour to keep themselves up to date, and the efforts of the College of General Practitioners to formalise and extend this postgraduate training are altogether admirable. I think that ultimately periodic postgraduate training will have to be made mandatory. Although the postgraduate training efforts of the College of General Practitioners are excel lent, other measures will also be needed to increase the number of general practitioners to meet the needs of the community. 
The first of these measures is to study the entry standards into medical schools. At present all our main universities have quotas for the medical faculty, and all of them use academic attainments, usually matriculation results, as the sole criterion. This has resulted in a large number of clever boys, looking for the most rewarding profession in which to employ their talents, choosing a medical course, although their motivation towards medicine may not be strong; they are more interested in the social and financial rewards. Of course, they are a minority, but I understand they are an increasing proportion. I think the entry requirements should be widened to include such factors as common sense, humanity and desire to serve the community, as well as academic standards. Admittedly these would be subjective judgments and would be time consuming, but I believe their use would result in a more desirable motivation among medical students and an increased proportion of them would be likely to be attracted to general practice. These entry qualifications should be one of the first targets of the new advisory committee on educational research. After all1, it costs the community - the taxpayer - an average of something like $40,000 for each medical student who completes his university training. So it would be worthwhile taking some additional trouble with their selection. 
The second area to which we should give attention is the guidance given to medical students in the later stages of their course. At present they are instructed almost entirely by specialists during the period when most of the students are making up their minds on the direction their careers will take. I think that there is no alternative to the continuation of instruction by specialists, but the university medical schools should make a determined effort to balance the influence of the specialists with a programme showing the attractions and advantages of general practice. I would hope,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that these two measures would provide the necessary number of general practitioners, but we must face the possibility that they may not be sufficient. The laws of supply and demand will probably keep the correct balance between the various medical specialist fields, but the laws of supply and demand cannot be relied upon to keep the overall balance between general practitioners and specialists. If there is a shortage of general practitioners the average general practitioner will have to refer patients to specialists or to hospitals - patients whom he could normally have treated himself. As he becomes more and more overworked and achieves less and less professional satisfaction, there would inevitably be an increasing and accelerating trend towards specialisation. 
There must be, in any community, an optimum balance between general practitioners and specialists. The community as  a  whole is making very substantial financial sacrifices through the universities to provide an increasing number of medical practitioners. As I said earlier, we are very well off overall by world standards. I believe that, as a last resort, if other measures fail, it is up to the medical profession to control its own internal balance. If the proportion of specialists is becoming excessive, I think the medical profession must restrict entry into the various specialist bodies. If it is thought that this is an unreasonable interference with medical freedom, I would draw attention to the arrangements in the legal profession. In the legal profession the number of junior counsel advanced to Queen's Counsel is controlled by the profession in. co-operation with the State governments, so that the number of Queen's Counsel is determined not only by the desire and attainments of the individuals but also by the number of Queen's Counsel the Bar can support and the balance between senior and junior counsel. This system seems to work very well, except perhaps in South Australia. Although the problems are different, I think a similar level of internal self-discipline in the medical profession could preserve the balance between general practitioners and specialists. 
Although the three suggestions I have made concerning the general practitioners are primarily the constitutional concern of the States, I believe the Federal Government must act as an initiator and catalyst in trying to solve the problem, because the general practitioner is an essential component of an efficient and satisfying health system. He is the only one who can provide family medical counselling, preventative treatment and early recognition of the presence of disease. No-one else can fill this role adequately. If there are not enough general practitioners, as is the case in America, for instance, home visits will be cut out and patients will have to go to specialists or hospitals for advice and treatment which could have been given by the local general practitioner. This will be expensive to the community and often highly inefficient and inconvenient for the patient. Here in Australia we have a medical profession whose prestige and ability are not excelled anywhere in the world. This new health benefits plan will minimise the financial problems of the patient. We must supplement these financial provisions with initiatives aimed at ensuring that the general practitioner remains, as the family doctor, the keystone of the health system. 
Or KLUGMAN (Prospect)  [4.38]-  I congratulate the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  on assimilating extremely well the medical briefing from the Collage of General Practitioners without accepting its political propositions. 1 would certainly agree with him. It gives mc great pleasure to second the amendment proposed by the Opposition. Today we are debating this Government's panic amendments to prop up the failing health legislation. I think it is important to have a quick chronological look at the origin of this amending Bill. Until about  3  years ago the Australian Medical Association and the Minister for Health talked about Australia's leadership in this sphere of health schemes. The basis for this was similar to the basis for the Minister's claim that Australia's hospitals were the best in the world; in other words, non-existent. It is interesting, by the way, to read the speech he gave in 1967 and note that the only authority he quotes in support of his claims is  Mr Enoch  Powell. However, during the last  3  years at least many attacks began on the scheme. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  with the help of such medical economists as Messrs Scotton and Deeble from the Institute of Applied Economic Research at the University of Melbourne, not only exposed the iniquities of the Liberal scheme but went further and proposed Labor's alternative national health programme. 
The Minister for Health, a man with impressive academic qualifications, has doggedly defended the present scheme. I feel that his statements often have obviously been briefs from the Voluntary Health Insurance Council, a pressure group financed by some of the larger funds. One of the most depressing and yet interesting aspects of the defence of the Government's scheme and the attacks on Labor's plan has been the faceless men preparing handouts for the Minister and the AMA. Most prominent amongst these men in New South Wales have been  Mr Cade  and  Mr Turner,  tsars of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd and the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, respectively. 
Br KLUGMAN-I did. It is in pencil. That is why I am taking some time to  read  it. We have reached the stage where  Sir Clarence  Rieger, Federal  President  of the AMA, is also a director of one of the South Austraiian medical funds and the  President  of the Voluntary Health Insurance Council. We never know when he is speaking as the Federal  President  of the AM A and when he is speaking as the representative of the Medical Benefits Fund, but I feel, as a member of the AMA, that more often than not he is speaking as a representative of the Voluntary Health Insurance Council. Only recently has it become obvious to AMA members that as their  President  he is acting as a spokesman for the directors of the larger benefit funds. Please do not interpret this to mean that he is speaking for the ordinary members of these so-called mutual benefit funds. Not only do the members have no say in their funds but they are not even told who the directors are. The Articles of Association of  Mr Turner's  Hospitals Contribution Fund are not even available to this House. Some weeks ago I asked the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to supply these. He has apparently been unable to do so. 
In the Medical Journal of Australia on 11th April 1970  Dr Knight  of East Melbourne wrote: 
When the Government during the election campaign last year announced its 'new' scheme, the AMA should have made it clear that doctors have no part to play in patient-government relationships. Instead the Federal President of the AMA issued a statement which . appeared to he  an  instruction for doctors to campaign actively on behalf of the Liberal Party's scheme and oppose that of the Labor Party. This apparent incursion into the political arena had Icd many to believe  that  the AMA is actively joining the Government and the benefits societies . . . 

 Dr Knight is not the only doctor to wake up to this. At an extraordinary general meeting of the New South Wales Branch of the AMA on 22nd March this year in Sydney 1,007 proxies were received. One - I repeat, only one - was given to  Sir Clarence  Rieger. Suddenly doctors all over the country are realising that the leadership of the AMA, which until recently they had supported as being 'establishment' and anti-Labor, is really acting in the interests of the highest echelons of the largest health funds. 
Lel us return ' to recent political history. Until 2 or 3 years ago we had claims by the Minister, the Liberal and Country parties, the AMA and the so-called open funds that all was well with their - 1 emphasise the word 'their' - scheme. Under the leadership of the leader of our Party the contributors, who had been grumbling but leaderless and - I emphasise this - unrepresented on the boards of the funds, showed the conservative politicians that they were dissatisfied. Even the Australian Democratic Labor Party expressed its support. On 3rd April 196S the Senate agreed to the appointment of a select committee.  to inquire into medical and hospital costs in 
Australia and, in particular, to examine the operation and administration of the medical and hospital benefits schemes, and to recommend such legislative and administrative measures by the Commonwealth as will, having regard to the constitutional division of . legislative power in Australia, enable the provision of the optimum standards of medical and hospital care for all. 
Although the Government parties had a majority on the Committee the Government panicked and on 18th April 1968, a fortnight later, appointed the Nimmo Committee to review the voluntary health insurance system in Australia. Its terms of reference were quite restrictive and it had no authority to hear evidence in public. The Government's aim was to divert attention from the Senate Select Committee and to take the heat off health insurance as an issue. It was only partly successful. The Nimmo report of March 1969 was highly critical of this best of all systems, although it was restricted in its terms of reference. The findings of the Nimmo Committee included: 
The operation of the health insurance scheme is unnecessarily complex and beyond the comprehension of many. 
The benefits received by contributors are frequently much less than the cost of hospital and medical treatment. 
The contributions have increased to such an extent that they are beyond the capacity of some members of the community and involve considerable hardship for others. 
The rules of many registered organisations including the so-called 'special account' rules permit disallowance or reduction of claims for particular conditions. The application of these rules has caused serious and widespread hardship. 
An unduly high proportion of the contributions received by some organisations is absorbed in operating expenses. 
The level of reserves held by some organisations is unnecessarily high. 
The cost of illness may include, in addition to hospital accommodation and treatment and medical services, a wide range of other services which have never been covered by the health insurance scheme. These 'other' services include nursing home accommodation and treatment, physiotherapy, home nursing, chiropractors' services, chiropodists' services, optometry and dentistry. Whilst future increases will be necessary from time to time as costs rise, health insurance contributions are in present circumstances as high as most people are prepared to pay and as many people can afford to pay. . . . 
In addition to the findings the Committee made 42 recommendations. Nothing more happened until September 1969. Let us remember the political context; at this stage the Government was supremely confident over the coming election. The gallup polls tended to justify this confidence. Then suddenly things changed. In August 1969, according to the gallup poll, the Liberal Party had over a 5% lead when people were asked: 'How would you vote if an election was held today? By 4th October the Australian Labor Party had a 3% lead. The Government panicked. It looked back to see what the reason was for the sudden change in its standing. One of the questions that had been asked at the gallup poll in August was: Do you support the present system of health insurance, or do you support the ALP's scheme?' The ALP's scheme had a 58% to 39% margin, which was the biggest margin in relation to any of the issues which the gallup poll organisers thought were up for discussion at the last election. At that stage the Government decided that it had to pull a rabbit out of the hat. The Prime Minister then made h:s rather sudden announcement. 
Following the rather embarrassingly disastrous opening of the election campaign the Prime Minister lost his nerve. Having announced a $5 maximum payment for any medical service he was astounded to find that a number of doctors and procedures were involved in an operation. When challenged on this he rather characteristically did not bother to check w th his Minister for Health. He stated bluntly: 'It includes the lot', meaning pathology, X-rays, anaesthetics, assistants, surgeons and aftercare. As usual he then produced 2 arbitrary figures, no doubt supplied by the Press Coordinator for the Royal Visit,  Mr Tony  Eggleton. Not unexpectedly, these figures showed that the Liberal Party's scheme was better and cheaper than Labor's. Also not unexpectedly, the figures were completely wrong. 
Not having done anything about the 42 recommendations in the Nimmo report brought down in March, the Government passed amending legislation in September 1969, just before the dissolution of the House, to implement partly one of these 42 recommendations. The recommendations had been to provide free or subsidised fund benefits for low income families. These were defined with reference to the Commonwealth award wage for each State and related to the number of dependants. Instead, the Government's amendment fixed on $39 a week as the upper limit for families to receive free insurance. The legislation was to come into force in January 1970. But the Government knew that the national wage case decision would alter the awards in the interim and would be brought down before the legislation would come into force. The Government's excuse was that it could not risk entering into an open ended arrangement by tying the legislation to the minimum wage. No such talk of open ended arrangements takes place when it comes to fertiliser subsidies. The subsidy is paid on every ton of fertiliser no matter how many are sold. I assume that that, is because of pressure from the Country Party or from representatives of the chemical firms. 
So 14 months after the Nimmo Committee's 42 recommendations we have only I implemented and that in a far more restrictive fashion than recommended by the Committee. Not surprisingly, we are about to amend this 1 recommendation introduced by the Government last September. Since last October the Minister has been trying to produce legislation to implement the Prime Minister's election promises. He has allegedly had discussions with the AMA, the funds, dissident doctors - that is, those who have not received knighthoods for their services to medical politics - and State Health Ministers. It is interesting to note in passing that at an AMA meeting in Sydney on 22 March at which the doctors overwhelmingly recorded a vote of no confidence in their federal council, one of the federal councillors pointed out that this body, the federal council of the AMA, had not even met for the previous 6 months. The Minister kept on issuing statements that the legisla tion was ready. On 4th March he made a statement to this House. He admitted that his, or  Mr Justice  Eggleston's, guesstimate at election time of $ 1 6m extra cost to the Commonwealth and almost no extra cost to contributors was out by over 100% as far as the Commonwealth was concerned and that the increase in subscriptions from contributors would be at least $22m per year. Since then the Minister has been attending AMA meetings - smiling - appealing to most doctors' anti-Labor prejudices; changing his proposed legislation - smiling; ' facing Government back bench dissent - smiling; and wishing he were back with the Army either as Minister or as an officer. When he finally introduced this Bill last month there had been further withdrawals from the Nimmo recommendations. There is how no reference to our National Health Insurance Commission to administer the health insurance programme and employers will now nor be obliged to collect and remit contributions on behalf of employees who elect to pay their contributions in this way. No doubt pressure from the large open funds and the employers federation deleted these suggestions. 
What are the remainder of these proposed amendments? They have been called the centre piece of the Gorton Government's legislative programme. What a centre piece. They sound impressive when we are told that they occupy 178 pages. However 142 of these pages are schedules of common fees for every State of the Commonwealth. These fees are of course not binding on doctors; they contain many anomalies and they are already out of date in some instances and will soon become so in others. For those of us who like puzzles we can while away the cold Canberra evenings and find, using many cross references, that the most common fee for a suprapubic prostatectomy, item 5010, in Victoria is $200 and in Tasmania it is $150; for an endoscopic prostatectomy, item 5014, it is $210 in Victoria and only $100 in Tasmania. By the way, the explanation of thus, if any, is not that the urologists are. much more expensive in Victoria than in Tasmania because we find item 5019, the median bar endoscopic resection, probably the commonest of these operations, has a common fee of $90 in both States. 
Let us look at the rest of the amendments. We have some minor redefining of medical services so as to include a small number of procedures performed by oral surgeons but even these are restricted to those performed in operating theatres of approved hospitals. The schedules are to be changed by regulation, but we are not told on what basis. Both doctors and contributors are vitally interested in this. We have amendments assuring contributors of maximum cost of S5 for medical services provided the doctors charge the common fee and provided the cure is surgical. Should a contributor be unlucky enough not to be curable by surgery but to require repeated examinations, visits, tests, transfusions or infusions, each one of these can cost $5. A coronary occlusion, a stroke or a diabetic coma can still cost a lot in medical fees alone. There can surely be no reason why a cancer victim treated surgically should pay only $5 whilst if treated with radiotherapy or with drugs he has to pay much more. I think that in many ways this is symptomatic of the Government's approach to issues. I think the Government's motto is: We will deal with the dramatic aspects, but where logic and reasoning are required that is not our cup of tea'. There is still no refund for patients attending outpatient clinics at hospitals. 
There is no attempt to encourage preventive medicine; there is no rebate for routine overhauls which take a long time; there is no extra rebate for cancer smear tests or immunisations, apart from the usual consultation fee which would often be less than the actual fee charged. When dealing with the registration of funds there is still no obligation on them to let members have any say in them or even for members to know the directors, the method of election or even the constitution. We have recently heard in this House that  Mr Turner  of the New South Wales Hospitals Contribution Fund was appointed to the Art Gallery Society of New South Wales in return for appointing P. G. Huxley Esq. as a director of the HCF. Apart from him how many more Liberal Party protegees are there amongst the directors? These amendments, whilst they will be beneficial to some contributors, of course do not change the basic weaknesses. We still have a scheme based on equal and now greatly increased contributions. We have, because of tax concessions, the spectacle of the net cost decreasing as the taxable income increases. 
It is indeed a cornerstone of Liberal legislation. 
I now want to say a few words regarding some of the medical criticisms. The main attack has been on differential rebates between general practitioners and specialists and the common $5 specified excess in case of operative procedures. Let me say that I support the Government on this. I hope that the Minister will not accept any amendment after he hears this. What the doctors opposing this are saying is that the poorer people should be financially, deterred from seeking specialist treatment in order to preserve the jam on the butter of general practice, lt opposes a fundamental concept of an effective national health service, which is that the best medical care should be available to everyone regardless of his financial resources. Personally I am very concerned that the Government will use regulations regarding referrals financially to deter patients from seeing consultants. If there are those on the Government side who say that specialists are necessary for some of the minor conditions such as confinements, let me ask them whether their wives or daughters had general practitioners or specialists for any confinement in a city in the last 10 years. 
The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners last week produced a leaflet entitled 'You and Your Doctor' for distribution to patients. It is in the form of question and answer, and I give this example: 
Why should doctors determine their own fees anyway? 
. . . This matter is part of the doctorpatient relationship, which has existed for centuries. Once an outside party is involved in the setting of fees, the relationship begins to crumble. Doctors realise that medical care is everybody's right, regardless of the patient's ability to pay, and many an account has been settled with a dozen eggs, or a basket of fruit, or nothing more than the spoken thanks of the patient. In no other field of business or commerce does this relationship exist. Do you wish to see it destroyed? . . . 
This is a statement from the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. It is no wonder that  Her  Majesty left this country on Sunday. I certainly would like to see this necessity to depend on charity destroyed. There is no need in a country such as Australia to depend on the charity of a doctor or for a doctor to accept certain services from a patient rather than to have the services paid for by some public authority if the patient is unable to afford it. It is similar to last year's handout by  Sir Charles  Rieger in which he said:   . . that delicate, personal, doctor-patient relationship where the patient is personally responsible for his fees. 
No health scheme such as this one will ever be fair or even effective and apparently only a Labor government will provide these changes. The scheme must be based on general taxation to be equitable. 
By the way, it is interesting to note that the Commonwealth contribution of $2 per bed day to a contributor's hospital costs has not been altered since 1962, even though this year there was an opportunity to do so. During the Chifley Government the Commonwealth contribution was 60c per day for every bed but now it is 80c for non-contributors and $2 for contributors to hospital funds. The approximate bed day cost in New South Wales was $1.60 in 1946, with a Commonwealth contribution of 60c, or 37%. Under the Menzies Government in 1962 when the $2 was brought in the cost was $12; in other words there was a Commonwealth contribution of 16% to the cost. Now under the Gorton Government the Commonwealth contribution has dropped to 10% of the cost because the cost per bed has increased to $20 per day and the contribution has not altered. Even in the case of pensioners the Commonwealth, which pretends to shoulder financial responsibility for their health, only contributes $5 per day which is only 25% of the cost. It is no wonder that the hospitals cannot even begin to live up to the Minister's claim of being the best in the world. Let us further remember that the costs mentioned are only maintenance costs and do not include capital expenditure. It is no wonder that the Minister's statement that people could get a hospital bed at the standard they desired almost at will in Australia is far from factual. 
May 1 conclude by quoting from an editorial in what is not exactly a left wing paper - the 'Australian Financial Review'. It states: 
What started off  as a  serious exercise in social engineering with the avowed purpose of removing the financial penalty that occurs through Hi-health, has become a battleground of pressure groups with the public left forgotten on the side lines. Where does the patient rank in the policymaking now? 
The Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  who is not even a member of the inner Cabinet, apparently interprets his position to be that of an adjudicator between pressure groups that have been institutionalised by Government machinery - listening to the health funds here, tut-tutting  at the Australian Medical Association there, speaking sternly to hospitals everywhere. 
He is the embodiment of what is wrong with the Liberal Government of today. 
Somewhere along the way the guiding principles of Liberalism have been subordinated to defending the policies and values that have been handed down from another era. 
At all costs (to the public) nothing must be done or said to antagonise the organised and vocal pressure groups. 
In Australia only the silent majority is  defranchised 
Can the Minister for Labour and National Service say what degree of response is likely from trade unions to the call for strike action by the organisers of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign? 
I should like to get away from airy generalities and irrelevant detail and deal with the practical problems of 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth employees. I think that we are all in sympathy in principle with the desirability of increased leisure, but the Commonwealth Government also has a responsibility to the community as a whole for the economic and efficient operation of the civil service. The maintenance of the proper balance between these two requirements is one of those difficult judgments that face any government. We must not overlook the fact that there is a very tight labour market at the moment and that the conditions of Commonwealth employees must be such that we continue to attract and to hold people in this vital service. 
Various arguments have been advanced in favour of 4 weeks annual leave. The first of these is that the increased complexity of the work and the pressures on public servants make it necessary for them to have additional annual leave so that they will be better able to cope with the strain of that work. This is true in principle. But the situation would not be improved if public servants had to work harder or had to work more overtime in order to cover the absence of staff on additional leave. An additional week's leave for Commonwealth public servants would cost the Treasury - the taxpayer - $2Sm a year, or more if increased overtime was necessary, which would seem inevitable in the present labour situation. If it flowed on to all Australian employment, as it almost certainly would - and much more quickly than the SO years suggested by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  - the cost of this flow on would be $290m a year. 
The second argument advanced is that public servants are entitled to additional leave as one of the benefits of increased productivity. I agree with the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  that public servants have kept pace with the rise in national productivity, but the benefits of increased productivity can be and are distributed in many other ways - in higher wages, the avoidance of price increases that might otherwise occur, and increased expenditure on community services such as education and social welfare. These benefits do flow to Commonwealth employees as their share, or part of their share, of increased national productivity. 
The third argument it that more annual leave is enjoyed by some other sections of the Australian work force, particularly the New South Wales civil service. There is something in this argument, but strict comparisons would have to take into account such things as differences in working hours and long service and sick leave entitlements. On balance I do not think that Commonwealth public servants are disadvantaged compared with those people who do get additional annual leave. In fact, of course, some members of the Commonwealth Public Service already get more than 3 weeks annual leave; I refer to parliamentary draftsmen, reporters, magistrates and managers of social service rehabilitation centres. Presumably if the general leave of the Commonwealth Public Service were increased to 4 weeks' these people would wish to see their entitlement further increased, which would cause considerable difficulties particularly, as I am sure honourable members are aware, in the area of parliamentary draftsmen. This is typical of the practical problems which confront the Government in making this difficult judgement. I think that on the whole Commonwealth public servants are as well off overall as are the groups in other areas who receive more than 3 weeks annual leave. 
The fourth argument which has been advanced is the need to restore the relative advantage of the Commonwealth Public Service, which has always enjoyed 3 weeks annual leave but which is in the process of losing this advantage over other workers who used to receive 2 weeks and now receive 3 weeks or more. This brings us back again to the fact that conditions of employment must be looked at overall and that we must not merely concentrate on one particular aspect. If this argument of. relative advantage in this particular area is pursued, would honourable members opposite be advocating 5 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants if the general level were raised to 4 weeks? If they do, they should think very carefully about the effect this would have on the economy and efficiency of national and parliamentary administration. 
The Government is keenly aware of what the people of this country owe to the integrity and efficiency of the Public Service. There is much to be said in favour of increased annual leave, but there are serious practical difficulties at the moment. We in this House must be watchful to see that the employment conditions of Commonwealth public servants are fair and equitable and likely to attract the number and quality of people we need for this vital service. This, I am sure, we will always do. 
1  can speak with some personal authority and sadness of the defects of the present Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. Before I resigned from the Navy  2  years ago to stand for Parliament I had served in the Navy for  3 1  years. Yet my benefit from the Government after  31  years service was nothing, although I was given back my contributions less depreciation. This was entirely correct under the DFRB Fund rules because I resigned more than  11  years before the retiring age laid down. Although it was correct under the rules, they are bad rules. In fact, this unfairness was recognised when there were  2  spectacular resignations by officers of my rank. They were given substantial payments to which they were entitled in justice but to which they were not entitled under the DFRB Act. 
The present Act is well intentioned, but good intentions are not enough. The DFRB Act does not fit the special needs of our fighting Services and is a major cause of dissatisfaction with conditions of service.  It is pointless to tinker with the present Act. We need a special review of what we are trying to achieve with our defence forces retirement benefits and how best we can achieve it. We must not leave such  a  review to the Treasury. A select Committee is the only way I can see of achieving a radical review of the whole of the system, and I therefore support the purpose of the amendment. 
Can the Minister for Defence say what steps are being taken to have Service representation on the committee in his Department which deals with the pay and conditions of servicemen? Is this Committee giving urgent consideration to the many urgent matters before it having regard to the special careers, risks and skills of servicemen? I mention the last matter because the Minister was reported in the daily Press last week as suggesting that the skills of Service pilots were less than those of Department of Civil Aviation pilots. 
-The prime task of a government is to manage the national economy, and the Budget is the principal weapon in this control. Inflation is the dominant problem of economic management in almost all of the main industrial countries, and we have not completely escaped this problem in Australia. In the June quarter, as pointed out by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the increase in the consumer price index reached an annual rate of more than 5%. This is too high and it must be damped down. If it is not contained not only will it harm people on fixed incomes but it will also provoke or increase wages turmoil and if it continues unrestrained for too long we will price ourselves out of our export markets which, particularly for manufactured goods and minerals, have been developing so satisfactorily in recent years. Control of inflation is the initial aim of this Budget and by aiming at a domestic surplus of $550m, in conjunction with other measures, this should be achieved. 
The second aim of a responsible Budget must be tj encourage the expansion of the economy. Under wise economic management our economy has been growing rapidly for many years. Last year our gross national product increased, at constant prices, by 5.5%. Perhaps more significant is the fact that our national product per head of population - the real indicator of national prosperity - increased by 3.2% at constant prices. Maintenance of this steady increase in national and individual wealth must be a central aim of government and this, too, will be achieved by this Budget. The third great restraint in the framing of this Budget was the great increase in grants to the States. The States are responsible for many of the activities which most affect the people - education, hospitals, town planning, housing and redevelopment, and conservation. An improvement in their financial resources was essential, even though it will greatly reduce the ability of the Federal Government to make increased payments in other directions. 
In reducing personal income tax rates the Government has not only met an election pledge but has more than met it. I can well imagine the remarks of honourable members opposite if the tax rates had not been reduced. In addition to improving the incentive to increase production, the lowering of the tax rates restores to the individual the right to make decisions about the expenditure of his money. Each individual will have more money in his pocket. He does not have to spend it on those goods which are now the subject of increased tax. The increased taxes are justified. In fact, in the case of cigarettes one could make a case for a much higher tax designed not to maximize revenue but to deter people, particularly young people, from smoking. There is no reason in logic why wine should be free of tax when drinkers of spirits and beer are taxed more than Sim a day - and I speak as a wine lover. Moreover, the items such as television sets, cameras and jewellery in the old 25% sales tax scale are luxuries or things that are not essential. 
Last but not least is the increased tax on motor cars and petrol. Australia spends 6% of its gross national product on private cars and their running costs. This is a higher rate than in any comparable country, and nearly as high as in the United States, which is a much wealthier country. I think that this excessive expenditure on cars is a wrong use of our national resources. Although we have great distances we are in fact the most urbanised society in the world, and that should mean less, not more, need for cars. I think that this small deterrent to the over-usage of cars is justified because their excessive use distorts our town planning, pollutes our atmosphere and wrecks our public transport systems. 
I am sure there is widespread disappointment that it has not been possible to make a larger increase in pension rates. But the situation must be seen in perspective. Under Liberal governments the rate of pension increase over the years has been substantially higher than the rise in the cost of living. The trouble has been that the starting point in this process, namely the pension rate under the last unlamented Labor government, was far too low. The real value of pensions has steadily improved under Liberal rule and will con tinue to do so as the economic situation permits. Also, last year there was a dramatic easing of the means test. Many fringe benefits, such as the free pensioner medical service, have been introduced over the years. I think what we are achieving would be made clear if pensioners received automatic cost of living adjustments, together with periodic increases as the economic situation permitted. This would also ease the problem of inflation for pensioners for they of all people have least margin for absorbing rises in the cost of living. But it must be remembered always that pensioners have done much better under the present system than they would have done under automatic cost of living adjustments only. It all ultimately comes back to the problem of the importance of the control of inflation. What does the Labor Party propose? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would like to increase payments to war pensioners and social services beneficiaries, to schools, hospitals and urban authorities - all of which are the responsibility of the States anyway - and to stricken primary industries. It was noticeable that in proposing help for primary industries the Leader of the Opposition was careful to avoid specific recommendations. This was wise, remembering the previous Labor Party recommendations in this field. 
At the same time the Leader of the Opposition would like to increase income tax deductions and eliminate the increase in direct taxation necessary to preserve the stability of the economy.  His  generosity with other people's money is remarkable. As he asked: 'Where is the money coming from?' In the highly unlikely event of a Labor government coming to power it is obvious where it would come from - from printing presses working overtime. In the very words of the Leader of the Opposition: 'Happy is the country where $32,000 a year is a middle income.' If the present ideas of the Leader of the Opposition are any guide a short period of Labor rule would mean that $32,000 a year would be the basic wage. The Leader of the Opposition seems to suffer from the delusion that centralised bueaucratic control of such matters as health and education would result in economy. All experience shows that exactly the opposite is true. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  is more responsible in economic matters than in his leader so he contented himself with saying absolutely nothing in support of the economic vandalism of his leader. The economic statements of the Labor Party remind me of a baby - a loud voice at one end and no sense of responsibility at the other. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  mentioned in his Budget Speech that he was looking in more detail at other aspects of the taxation system. I should like to draw his attention to the deductions which are allowed before income tax rates are applied. These deductions have remained broadly unchanged for many years and 1 believe many of them  aTe  out of date and inappropriate. They are also very regressive. An income tax deduction of Si is worth nearly 3 times as much to a man on $12,000 as it is to a man on $2,000 a year. What these deductions are, in effect, is a cash payment by the Government to assist the taxpayer in meeting certain expenses. I believe wc should look very critically at these cash payments to see whether they are socially desirable and whether there are not better ways of assisting people in the lower and middle income groups to meet their expenses. 
The first area with which I would like to deal is that of medical expenses. There are 3 components involved. The first is the deduction allowed for contributions to medical and hospital benefit insurance funds. 1 have drawn the attention of the House to this anomaly before but I think it is worth repeating. The deduction for medical insurance premiums, coupled with the assistance given to people on low incomes to pay their insurance premiums means, in effect, that we have this situation: People on incomes below $42.50 per week get government assistance to pay nl] their health insurance premiums. People with incomes between $42.50 and $45.50 a week and people earning more than $385 a week that is $20,000 a year - get two-thirds of their insurance premiums paid for them. People earning between $45.50 and $48.50 and more than $92 a week get one-third of their insurance premiums paid for them. The people in between - the middle income earners, that is, those receiving between $48.50 and $92 a week - get least; they have less than one-third of their insurance premiums paid for them. 
I believe that this pattern is absurd. These deductions allowed for health benefit contributions reduce Treasury revenue by about $31m a year. We should eliminate this as an allowable tax deduction and use the $31m rise in Federal revenue to increase the Commonwealth contributions to the benefits payable and thus reduce the insurance payments of everyone equally. 
Also, in the new health scheme there is what is called a deterrent fee to prevent abuse of the service. This deterrent fee is the gap between the most common fee and the insurance rebate paid. As this deterrent fee is a fixed amount, obviously it becomes less effective as a deterrent the higher the income of the patient. But by allowing it to be claimed as an income tax deduction it not only becomes relatively less effective as income increases but also the actual financial deterrent is less. I believe there is no ground, in reason or common sense, why this deterrent fee should be allowed as a tax deduction. The final component of allowable deductions for medical expenses is that for payments in excess of the most common fee. If is a vital requirement of the new health scheme that treatment should be reasonably available to patients at the most common fee. There is not, nor should there be, any objection to people seeking treatment from doctors of their own choice who charge more than the common fee. But it seems to me absurd that these people should be subsidised by the Treasury in these payments in excess of the common fee by allowing them to claim it as an income tax deduction. If people wish to have such treatment they should pay for it themselves. 
A second area where the present system of income tax deduction is unfair to people on lower and middle incomes is in the allowable deductions for children. We give assistance for children in 2 ways* - child endowment and through income tax deductions. I think it is common ground with everyone who has investigated the problem of poverty that probably the best way to reduce poverty would be by an increase in child endowment and we could, at no cost to the Treasury, nearly double the present level of child endowment by eliminating the income tax deduction for children. This would of course make the assistance equal for everyone and eliminate the situation where the assistance - the sum of child endowment and income tax deduction - for a first child, for instance, is $1.29 for a man on a taxable income of $2,000 a year and $3.17- nearly 3 times as much - for a man on $20,000 a year. 

 Mr Speaker, the third area to which I would like to draw your attention is that of education expenses. There are many areas of anomaly here, and I should like to draw attention to only one example. Once a student turns 21, all deductions cease for his parents, yet the average age of completing every university degree is now more than 21 years. The final example I would like to quote is the loophole through which Collins Street, or Macquarie Street, or Mugga Way farmers are able to deduct improvements and losses on their farm properties from their income tax. I heard the other day of a professional man - and probably there is not too much difficulty in guessing his profession - who wanted to invest $132,000 on his property last year. As his aim was to avoid income tax, it had all to be in improvements which were fully tax deductible. The distraught farm management consultant had run out of ideas on how he could spend the money because, as he said, he already had super a foot deep over the property and elephant proof fences at intervals of 10 yards. What this man was trying to do was to deprive the Federal Treasury of something like $100,000, so that he could have a capital gain or perhaps an attractive holiday home. 
This problem of deductions for Collins Street farmers has, of course, been raised before. I remember it being raised by the honourable member for Mallee. The Treasurer replied-- and with great respect, I think he was somewhat disingenuous - that the problem was not as simple as it appeared on the surface. He said a large number of people who are thought of as Pitt Street farmers are, in fact, genuine full time primary producers who have, in the last few years, not earned as much income from their farming activity as they have from the limited number of investments which they have been able to acquire. I am sure that no-one is suggesting that hard-pressed farmers, earning little from their properties and forced to take other jobs in order to keep going as farmers, should be deprived of the tax benefits of their properties. But there is a fairly large group of wealthy business or professional people who are taking advantage of this tax loophole and are in no sense genuine farmers. I would suggest that individuals with a non-farm income in excess of $10,000 should not be entitled to claim improvements or tax losses on farming properties unless they can convince the Taxation Commissioner that they are genuine primary producers. This should not be too difficult for the Taxation Commissioner for he already has a much more difficult and questionable judgment to make in deciding on the intentions of investors on the stock market. 
I have touched on only a few of what I regard as the anomalies in our present income tax law which bear unfairly on the people in the lower and middle income groups. It is our determination on this side of the House to do something to help these people and we have done a great deal in this Budget. I think we could do a great deal more to this end by reviewing the structure of allowable deductions. It need not cost the Treasury anything. A reorganisation within the existing financial limits would do much to help. I think in the past the Treasury's attitude with regard to these deductions has been to let sleeping dogs lie because if they stirred them up they might get bitten. However, the effects of these deductions is social as much as economic and we should be prepared to look at this closely. The only time these income tax deductions can be changed is when there is a reassessment of income tax rates or when the benefits are being changed as is happening with the health benefits at the moment. Now - this year - is the time to make the change and I commend the opportunity to the Treasurer for the next budget. 
As I said at the outset, the principal aims of the Government in this Budget must be the control of inflation and to continue the rapid growth of the national product in real terms. The prosperity of each of us depends on the prosperity of all of us. Our ability to do all the things we wish to do - to maintain our security, to improve our housing, health and education, to eliminate poverty, to improve the quality of life - ultimately depends on a steadily increasing national income. This will be achieved by wise economic management and for that reason I strongly support the present Budget. 
After the excursion into ancient and mostly imaginary history by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  I should like to bring the House back to sanity on this important issue of law and order. 1 propose to quote a description of the younger generation written by a very wise man. He said: 
Our youths now love luxury. They have bad manners, contempt for authority, they show disrespect for their elders. They no longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble  their  food and tyrannise their teachers. 
That is not a description of members of the Australian Labor Party; it was actually written by Socrates in the 5th century B.C. There is nothing new in our present turbulent younger generation. It is true that our society and all societies throughout the world are subject to unprecedented stress. Someone said the other day that of all the scientists who ever lived, 90% are still alive. The effect of this can be seen in the accelerating change in our material surroundings. This naturally and inevitably leads to the questioning of other aspects of our society. Because of this rapid material change society has a greater need than ever before of some certainties to hold onto. The rule of law in this country now faces graver and more pervasive danger than it has ever faced before. I put it to you bluntly: The rule of law could be wiped out by one misguided generation, no matter how well intentioned that generation thought it was. If this should happen it would take a century or more of struggle and sacrifice to restore what had so wilfully been thrown away. 
In our society the question is not 'May I dissent?' One may dissent. One may criticise. One may oppose. Our Constitution and our courts guarantee this. The real question is: 'How may I dissent?' Each of us owes a duty of obedience to law. If we wish to protest we must find out what methods of protest are lawful. But it must be remembered that good motives do not excuse actions which injure others. The individual's conscience does not give him a licence to indulge individual conviction without regard to the rights of others. But if an individual observes these restraints, he has the right to protest, however strongly; the right to criticise, however intemperately; the right to draw others to his cause. The state must not only respect these rights; it must also protect the dissenter from other citizens who try to prevent him exercising his rights. This may be seen in practice in the protection afforded speakers in, say, the Domain in Sydney or the Yarra Bank in Melbourne or in the arrangements made for orderly and prearranged protest marches. 
What happens if dissenters go beyond these bounds and disrupt the movement of peaceful citizens, invade offices, terrorise people in their homes or show their contempt at the proceedings of the law? Clearly if our society is to survive under the rule of law it must take action to restrain and, if necessary, to punish such dissenters. These dissenters are in many ways like young children who are constantly probing to find out how far they can stretch parental authority. We need clear statements on the permissible limits of dissent and firm action to be taken against those who transgress these limits. But principally it is a question of enforcing more strictly the limits which already exist. In nearly every case of outrageous mob action at a university the situation would never have got out of hand if the university authorities had acted promptly in the first place to restore order. The extent to which some university authorities have abdicated responsibility for the behaviour of their charges is almost a national disgrace. This is having an ominous effect on the future of tertiary education because the public is becoming increasingly hostile to students. If this trend continues it cannot fail to do great harm to our society. 
In addition to enforcing reasonable limits on dissent it is essential that we keep open every avenue for the orderly voicing of dissent and the airing of grievances. I believe that this has been largely achieved in the universities and it has certainly been achieved in our society at large. The way to change laws or policy is through the ballot box, not through strikes organised by a would-be dictator or moratoriums organised by a would-be alternative Prime Minister. The result of this type of dissent may be, as was pointed out the other day, a massive vote of no confidence in the Opposition. However, while I share this want of confidence in the Opposition, I realise too that the trend is dangerous for democracy and the rule of law in this country. We must all unite to restore and improve the rule of law for the alternative is anarchy. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Isaacs respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly ali nations which have perished have done- so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' Page 951): and 
That, in accordance wilh the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14 th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition 1 received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Is he aware that a deputation from the Executive Council of Australian Jewry is to meet members of the Government and Opposition parties to permit the delegates to submit their views about the treatment of Jews within the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Can the Minister let me know the views of the Australian Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister noted the recent rise of $4 in the minimum wage? Will action be taken to adjust the levels of subsidised health insurance accordingly? 
This debate initiated by the Opposition is a remarkable one. The Australian Labor Party is a Party which has a habit - perhaps a policy - of promising everything to everyone; more for education; more for local government; more for conservation; more for urban renewal; more for the pensioners and at the same time it would double the number of pensioners by the abolition of the means test. The Opposition promises more subsidies for agriculture, more of this and more of that. This is almost endless and then it adds the  35-hour  working week. A simple question such as 'where is the money coming from?' brings forth the attitude of 'Do not confuse us with facts'. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is the shadow Treasurer, said last year; 
I suggest that there is in Australia an undue obsession with inflation. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who is prepared to promise anything to anyone, in the last Budget debate said: 
Happy is the country where $32,000 is a middle income. 
He omitted to mention that in his inflationary Labor paradise  $32,000  probably would not buy as much as  $3,000  does today. 
As a nation we are not as affluent as is sometimes suggested. It is true that under a wise government ours is a country which has grown steadily richer in the last  20  years and should it continue to have a stable government we can expect this trend to  continue  in the future. But nevertheless we cannot do everything at once. We must make choices. Should we try to do everything at once as the Opposition would have us do the result would inevitably be galloping inflation and the destruction of our society and its values. Perhaps this is what the left wing of the Opposition would like to happen. 
I think honourable members opposite should study some of the words used by a former Commonwealth Treasurer who said:  1 am deeply grateful for the support that my colleagues have shown me in my fight against the great danger of inflation. I know that some of them have not readily seen the force of many of the economic theories on which I have had to act. 
Those words were used by the late  Mr J.  B. Chifley quite some time ago and I have no doubt that if he were alive he would still adhere to those remarks about the dangers of inflation and the lack of understanding of the economic theory by the Labor Party. 
At least he was aware of it. The members of his Party have now forgotten it. He was aware of the dangers of inflation and the damage it would do to our society. Inflation causes industrial turbulence; it discourages savings and makes exports more difficult. It harms those on fixed incomes and at the lower end of the economic scale. Perhaps most importantly, as was pointed out by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development the other day, inflation tends to strengthen other forces making for disenchantment with governments and existing political parties. Honourable members opposite, as they flirt with inflation in the hope of electoral gain, should ponder those sober words. But inflation is not a problem peculiar to Australia. It is a post-war disease of the whole world. In fact in 2 decades of Liberal rule Australia has achieved a remarkable combination of steady growth and reasonable control of inflation. Now that balance is threatened by forces, some of which are not and constitutionally cannot be under the control of the Government. Nevertheless the danger of inflation to our society and our economy is so serious that the Government must be prepared to take all useful actions within its power. Clearly it is . prepared to do this. Control of inflation is partly psychological and it would be greatly helped if this Parliament were to itself firm in its determination to fight. Lack of determination in this cause by honourable members opposite will in the short term damage the nation and in the long term destroy their own Party. 
The question of what measures we should take to control inflation without halting our expansion is a desperately difficult one to answer. Someone said the other day that if all the economists in the world were laid end to end they would all point in different directions. I should have thought this barbed shaft could more appropriately have been aimed at honourable members opposite. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has announced several measures to control inflation and is clearly determined to lake more action if necessary. In many ways the most significant step was the decision to review tariff policy. This even produced a comment on tariff policy from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which must have outraged at least 8 of the 9 sections of his Party. 
What should we do about tariffs? Tariffs have served us well in the past. They have enabled us to build up great secondary industries which never would or could have survived without tariffs. But our industrial pattern is changing. Twenty years ago the contributions of agricultural and manufacturing to the gross national product were approximately equal. Now that of manufacturing is 4 times greater. Twenty years ago our manufacturing exports were negligible. Now they are substantial and growing fast. With the decline in world prices for agricultural products they will have to grow even faster in the future unless we are content to survive merely as a quarry. 
Some of the traditional arguments for high tariffs are quite unsound. The one that irritates me most is the claim that industry provides employment and that on that ground alone it must be protected. Then we have to import at additional expense immigrants to provide labour for the industry which provides the employment and so on in never decreasing circles - a feeling which honourable members opposite are no doubt familiar with. What would happen if we decreased tariffs? Weak companies would disappear possibly by absorption and there would have to be some retraining of labour. The results would undoubtedly be politically unpopular and special cushioning arrangements would probably have to be introduced. On the other hand moderately efficient companies would be forced to improve their performance in their use of their capital and their labour. This would be a clear gain. The efficient companies should be unaffected. A reduction in tariffs would also make it easier to export good products. We should not continue to try to make everything. Let us make more efficiently the things for which we have the natural resources and adequate capital and labour and import those things for which we do not. This would be much less inflationary and should improve our balance of payments. 
Sweden, which has the highest standard of living in the world - higher than America - is an example of the successful implementation of such a policy. I should like to see the word 'economic' in the economic and efficient words of the Tariff Board Act interpreted to mean economically sensible to manufacturers in Australia. Many of the present high tariffs would pass this test but some would not. An exception to this rule must be our defence industries. The disintegration of the machine tool industry in recent years has been a tragedy caused, in my opinion, by giving protection on too wide a front but not giving adequate protection to the really important industries. Where an industry is essential to our defence capability it must be protected whatever the tariff cost may be. Of course, reduction in tariffs alone is not enough. We must improve our rate of growth in productivity, which is alarmingly low. The most obvious means of increasing productivity is to increase capital investment. Although I accept it as necessary I was sorry to see the investment allowance being made the first victim of the anti-inflation campaign. I hope that it will be restored as soon as possible, despite the feeling of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that investment spending is not desirable. 
We must also make better use of the capital equipment we have, lt is absurd to see expensive equipment lying idle for twothirds of the time. The amount of shift work in Australia is deplorably low. These are big subjects in themselves. I mention them only because I want to make it clear that there is no single panacea for our industrial development problems. Is the Tariff Board suitable for developing such a policy as I have outlined? I think that the answer is clearly no. It needs public guidance from the Government on national industrial policies. The guidance must be public, because manufacturers before they invest capital must be able to make some estimate of the likely future for their products. The tariff level is a vital component of such an estimate. We have limited capital resources. We must give sufficient information to ensure that that capital is used wisely. Tariffs have served us well in the past. The time is now ripe to review our tariff policy. It is one of the key decisions of the 1970s. I am delighted that the Prime Minister is determined to look at it. 
Tariffs are only one aspect of the antiinflation struggle. This House must show itself clearly determined to take all measures necessary, however unpopular they may be in the short term. I know that this will be difficult for honourable members opposite, for it seems that they will promise anything to achieve power, even if they destroy the economy in the process. The attitude of the Leader of the Opposition was described by a well known poet as 'I promise you, I promise you, anything you want me to.' Every group in the community has been asked what it wanted and then told: 'That is Labor policy' regardless of the impossibility of meeting all these promises at once. But the electorate is wiser than the Leader of the Opposition thinks and has rejected his second-hand Utopia. Now the Labor Party does not know where to turn. Its leader pushes his followers on with the rallying cry: 'Now that we have lost sight of our objective we must redouble our efforts'. They obediently gallop off in all directions. They are in such disarray that they do not look like an alternative government; they do not even look like a credible opposition. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it true as stated in the editorial column of the Australian' today-- 
As the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  pointed out, it is 32 years since there has been a debate on censorship in this House. The debate has been enlivened by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who seems to have a definition of censorship which is ail his own. Censorship, properly defined, is a subject which is the responsibility of this House and which, as the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  claimed, is philosophically evil. Moreover, not only has this subject not been debated in this House but there has been little serious investigation of the subject elsewhere in the community. Many investigations have been carried out overseas but most of those mentioned by honourable members opposite are of dubious relevance to Australia's social and legal situations. 
There is, however, one investigation which I would like to draw to the attention of the House, lt was conducted in England, the country from which we have taken most of our legal values and many of our social values. Even more importantly, it was conducted by a respected statutory body, the Arts Council. It came to its conclusions most reluctantly, aware that they would not be palatable to the government. Before I give the conclusions and the reasons leading to them I must point out that the censorship powers which in Britain rest with the Westminster Parliament are in Australia divided between the Federal Parliament and the 6 State Parliaments. Although this affects mainly the process of law making and law enforcement, the individual Australian citizen is affected by the sum of the efforts of the legislative bodies. Therefore I believe that censorship must be looked at as a whole, ignoring for the moment the division of powers between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The British investigating committee came to the conclusion - I repeat that it reached its conclusion very reluctantly - that the laws against obscenity, while constituting a danger to the innocent private individual, provide no serious benefit to the public and that the relevant Acts should be repealed and should not be replaced. The main reasons which led this conservative committee to such radical conclusions - I emphasise that these are the reasons of the British committee and not my own reasons - are as follows: 
lt is nut for the State to prohibit private citizens from choosing what they may or may not enjoy in literature or art unless there is  incontravertible  evidence that the result would bc injurious to society. There is no such evidence. 
No crystal ball can lay down .dogmatically whether more or less pornography would result from repeal, but in any case there is a complete absence of evidence to suggest that sex in the arts, even when aphrodisiac in intention, has criminal or antisocial repercussions. 
Although if is sometimes conjectured with no indisputable evidence that heavy and prolonged exposure lo the portrayal of violence may hot only reflect but also influence the standards  df  society, violence has been ubiquitous in the 'arts, literature and Press of the civilised world for so Jong that censorship must by now be recognised ,as a totally inadequate weapon to combat it. Indeed, laws available for the purpose, including the' Obscenity Acts, are virtually never invoked- against it: 
Since judges have to work ' in what is in effect a legal vacuum, the prosecution of an occasional book - usually the wrong one - often succeeds only in bringing the law into disrepute, without effectively preventing the distribution even of that book.   
The very objective of the law is not even established, let alone identified in concrete, meaningful terms that could command ..acceptance. Although judges emphasise that an article cannot be condemned because it shocks or 'disgusts, in practice that is precisely what happens, since juries have no other criteria to guide them. 
I must emphasise again that .what I am giving are the conclusions of the British committee and not my own.  , 
Wait for . it:  The committee concluded that: .&lt; . 
lt is impossible to devise' a definition of obscenity that does not beg the question, or a rational procedure weighing depravity .and. corruption against  artistic  .merit and the 'public good'. 
When juries and defendants are. without a comprehensible definition of the crime alleged, the defendant is left at the mercy  of a  personal opinion; which is a system of censorship rather than a system of law. ,  . 
It is intolerable that a man. .should be criminally punished for an action that he has no means of ascertaining in advance is criminal. 
Incitement to criminal behaviour is sufficiently covered by the ordinary law of incitement. To o that extent the Obscenity Acts are redundant. Insofar as they add the concept of a mere unintentional tendency towards crime as a punishable offence they are to be deplored. 10.It is an affront to both legal and common sense that incitement to  a  non-crime should be punishable as a crime; and worse when this doctrine is extended to  a  mere tendency. 
No encouragement should be given to the.' concept of the State  as  custos morum with its corollary that merely to shock is a crimin offence. 
The proper sanction for breaches of taste or non-conformity with current mores should be social reprobation and not penal legislation. 
I draw the attention of the House to this British report because I think it should not be ignored by the House. It is a report by  a  serious conservative committee in a country with similar legal and social values to ours. Nevertheless, the question we must answer is whether it is applicable to Australia. I think the answer is clearly no. Although some of the committee's reasons have been challenged, I think that that British committee may well be right in its conclusions. But nothing is so forlorn as an idea whose time has not come. I do not think the Australian public is prepared to accept such a policy, with its incalculable social effects. 
The overwhelming majority of Australians wish us to retain some form of censorship, not solely of matter dealing with sexual acts but, perhaps more importantly, of matter dealing with excessive violence and sadism. As Disraeli once said, ironically: 
In a democracy it is occasionally necessary for a government to bow to the will of the people. 
On this matter of censorship I believe that the will of the great majority of Australians is clear, and it is the same as that of the Government. If then we are to retain censorship, as I am sure we should, I think the only sensible policy is that of the Minister in his attempt to move with the shifting of public opinion - which, incidentally, may not move indefinitely in the direction of increased permissiveness. I do not envy the Minister his task of attempting to assess community standards, particularly as the most vocal individuals are not necessarily the most representative. I think he should make more use of this House as a sounding board and that this debate should be only the first of regular debates in the future. 
On only one minor matter do 1 part issue with the Minister, and that is the distance he is prepared to go to achieve uniform censorship standards ail over Australia. The danger of this is that Commonwealth standards, as administered by the Department of Customs and Excise, will be held to the level of the most reluctant State or reduced to the level of the most permissive State. I think the Minister should act on his own judgment and that of the distinguished bodies which advise him, and if a minority of States like to impose their own censorship then let them. It will be futile in any case, particularly with books. That is the only issue on which 1 differ from the Minister. 1 think he has done a remarkable job of intelligent administration of his difficult portfolio. Perhaps his greatest contribution has been to shine a bright light into the dark corners of censorship. If, as I believe, censorship is inherently evil  -  a necessary evil, but still an evil - then this House and the public should be fully informed on what is being done. I think that, after what the Minister has done, it will never again be possible for a blanket of darkness to be drawn over censorship, and that is a great gain for individual liberty. 
The battle against inflation is, in part, psychological. The visible determination of the Government to fight to control inflation is vital and for that reason I support the suspension of the 20 per cent tax allowance for manufacturing investment. Nevertheless, I should like to argue that this allowance should, in truth, be suspended only and not cancelled as was proposed by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin). 
There are a number of strands to the argument that this allowance should be restored as soon as inflation is contained. The first strand is that investment in plant and equipment is an essential ingredient of increased productivity and, thus, increased industrial efficiency. We need more, not less, investment in industrial equipment. 
The second strand is that this tax change does not affect the 2 fastest growing areas of investment, that is mining and other non-manufacturing activities, particularly office buildings. I certainly agree that the knocking down of solid office buildings and their replacement by tall glass boxes is a waste of national resources and that it should be restrained, but that has nothing to do with the present tax concession, which does not cover such construction. Nor does it cover mining investment, which has risen by 51 per cent in the last year. International comparisons are notoriously difficult, but Professor Colin Clark pointed out in last December's 'Economic Record', comparing Australia's capital investment with such investment in Norway and Japan, that we have a relatively low investment in industrial equipment. He suggested that this might be because Australian industry is not under sufficient competitive pressure to induce adequate investment in new equipment. If this is true, the answer lies in the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and tariff review, both of which are being closely examined by the Government. But, industry needs a carrot as well as a stick and that is why this investment allowance is so important to our future industrial prosperity. 
Professor Clark suggested also that we ' are devoting too much of our savings to public investment and to private office buildings. The former can be controlled and is being controlled by Government policy, but I confess that I do not know how we are to control excessive expenditure on private office buildings. The only immediate weapon seems to be exhortation. 
I must repeat that all this investment allowance covers is manufacturing industry and between the last quarter of 1969 and the last quarter of 1970 this rose by only 10 per cent compared with a rise over the same period of 51 per cent in mining and 20 per cent in the remaining nonmanufacturing industries - wholesale and retail trade, transport, building construction, banking and so on. We seem to be hitting hardest at the least offending section of the economy. An examination of the Bureau of Census and Statistics publication 'Capital Expenditure by Private Business for the December Quarter', published on 17th February, reveals a disturbing fact about this 10 per cent rise in manufacturing investment. Mineral processing - extracting, refining and founding - which we all agree should be encouraged, is included in manufacturing investment. This investment rose by 64 per cent between the last quarter of 1969 and the last quarter of 1970. Investment in the remainder of manufacturing industry - vital areas such as engineering, vehicles, chemicals and textiles - actually fell from $2 10m to $206m over the same period, and this fall is even more dramatic when one realises that investment in vehicle manufacturing has almost doubled. This leaves the rest of those manufacturing industries in a fairly parlous investment situation. 
I think there is a danger in looking at trends over too long a period. As Keynes once said, in the long run we are all dead. A year or so ago the Treasurer was reasonably happy with the balance of the economy. What surely we should be restraining now are activities that have continued to rise since then or, more particularly, those which are rising at an increasing rate. Neither of these is true for investment in manufacturing plant and equipment. On the figures that 1 have seen, the seasonally adjusted figures for investment in plant and equipment, that is, excluding buildings, have shown a slow but steady decline since March 1970. To remove a taxation incentive to investment in manufacturing equipment at a time when such investment is actually falling seems to me to be dangerous and not desirable in the long term interests of Australian industry. 
As 1 have said, I support this measure as an anti-inflation step, but I should like an assurance from the Treasurer that this investment allowance, which is an important incentive to increased manufacturing efficiency, is only suspended and will be restored as soon as inflation is contained. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral studied the new telephone accounts, which are the print-out of a computer? Does the Minister agree that they are extremely difficult for the average citizen to understand? Will he consider the preparation of a simpler form of account which does not require a subscriber to be a computer programmer to understand? 
The amendment to the Naval Defence Act which is now before the House is designed to change 39 Navy League Sea Cadet Units into Naval Reserve Cadet Unite and to transfer responsibility for them from the Civilian, voluntary Navy League to the Naval Board in Canberra. This places these cadets in the same relationship to the Navy as the Army Cadet Corps and the Air Training Corps are (o their parent Services. I am sure that this step is necessary. The running of the Sea Cadet Corps is becoming increasingly beyond the financial and administrative resources of the Navy League, and unless something radical is done the Sea Cadet Corps will inevitably decline in numbers or standards, and more probably in both. 
Nevertheless, we first have to determine what the purposes of these cadets should be. I believe there are 2. The first is to give young men who are interested in the sea, and the Navy, in particular, some knowledge of the subject. The second is to provide recruits for the regular and reserve naval forces.  For  both of these purposes it is important that training should be realistic and instructors well informed and up to date. If service at" sea is not truly repre sented - and the sea is a harsh task mistress - we may achieve many dissatisfied recruits and this in the long run will be harmful to both the individuals and the Service departments. At the moment I understand that 15 per cent to 20 per cent of sea cadets apply to join the regular Navy and about half that number are accepted. Others join the merchant service for the Navy League encourages life at sea, not merely service in the Navy. 
As a by-product these cadet units provide a community youth service. Although this is beneficial it is not a prime purpose of their existence. If the Navy League Sea Cadet units are to survive their transfer to naval control we must continue to interest the local community in their activities through supervising committees of local citizens. This is absolutely vital if these cadet units are to thrive. The case of the closed units is different. Closed units are those normally based in schools to which membership is limited to students of the particular school. Some years ago there were quite a number of these closed Sea Cadet units but gradually they have disappeared until today there is only one. This seems lo have been caused solely by the shortage of suitable masters with naval experience. World War II veterans are fast fading away or perhaps ex-sailors do not become schoolmasters. I think the same problem which has nearly destroyed the Sea Cadet units in schools will overtake the much larger Army cadet units in the not too distant future. In a few years there, will not be many masters with Army experience and if these Army cadet units survive, the cadets will be taught by officers with little or no practical military experience. I believe this is happening already and many of the school cadet units are becoming counterproductive - that is if the aim is to interest boys in the Army and attract some of them into Army careers. 
If these school cadet units are to continue, and I believe they should, I think the Services will have to provide much more training support than they have in the past.. But if this radical step is taken, I think at the same time the school cadet units should be changed from Army cadet units to combined cadet units in which, after a common basic training, cadets will be assigned to the Service in which they are most interested for further training. 
This is the system for school cadet units in Britain and I think it is a good system. It is surely in line with our future military requirements. 
But whatever decision is taken about the school cadet units, if the Navy is to run the Navy League cadet units effectively some change of policy is essential - a firm coherent policy, not a drift during a series of interregnums. The responsibility for the policy and administration of these new cadet units will be with the naval Director of Reserves in Canberra. There have been 11 Directors of Reserves in the last 10 years, including 3 in the last year. This may be acceptable to the Reserves, although I doubt it, but it certainly would not be acceptable if the Navy were to take on this large new commitment of more than 2.000 sea cadets. 
It is not only in policy directions that the Navy will be accepting an additional load. These cadet units will be receiving large quantities of Navy stores, bookkeeping for which will certainly be beyond their unaided capacity. If we are to avoid administrative chaos the Navy will have to be prepared to provide substantial assistance with storekeeping. The same applies to training. If training is to be realistic and efficient, as it must be if we are to achieve our aims, the regular Navy will have to be prepared to provide substantial equipment and instructors. I am told that the Air Force has about 70 regular personnel dealing full time with the Air Training Corps which has a strength of about 6,000. I am sure that a comparable commitment will be required from the Navy for these new reserve cadets. I should like an assurance from the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  that the Navy has accepted this full commitment as well as the titular responsibility. 
Although the Navy League is not mentioned in the amendment we are considering, the future of the Navy League must be of great importance to this House. I think its future lies in 2 fields. Firstly I think that the League can assist in the expansion of cadet units. At present there are 39 sea cadet units with 300 officers and instructors and 2,000 cadets, In a country such as Australia we should have many more units to cater for young men who could be interested in this Service. In the great city of Melbourne, for instance, there are only 2 units. The establishment of new units is not easy. It requires the dedicated efforts of a committee ,of volunteers, the attraction of suitable instructors and the enlistment of local youths. I think the Navy League could perform in all these roles more effectively than the Naval Board or the local naval authority. Once a unit was formed it would, ' of course, be handed over to naval administration under the provisions of this Act. But the Navy League would have performed an invaluable service in creating these units - and such a rule is clearly in: accordance with the spirit of the memorandum of association of the Navy League. ,. 
The second field of future activity of the Navy League should be to foster understanding in the community of the role of maritime power and the. importance of the Navy. This purpose is clearly set out in the Memorandum of Association of the Navy League. But it is a purpose from which the League has been deflected by the strain of running its Sea Cadet Corps. When the League is relieved of this administrative and financial load it should he able to devote more attention to expounding the role of sea power. This is a vital task. The only possible threat to the [territorial integrity of this country comes from across the sea. The greatest threat to our economic life is the cutting of ' our sea communications. We are an island people and for us, no less than for seventeenth century England, it is true to say: 'It is upon the Navy which, under the, : good providence of God, the wealth, safety and strength of this country do chiefly depend'. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Is the Minister aware of the closing of the White Ensign Club in Melbourne? Does the Minister agree that the Navy has a special responsibility for the welfare of its sailors, some of whom are as young as 16 years and are far from their homes? Will he see that suitable cheap respectable accommodation is available in Melbourne for such sailors on leave, if necessary by subsidy from public funds? 
I should like to deal with the second part of this cognate debate and to explain why the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act is related to while separate from the Repatriation Act. As the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  said in his second reading speech, it is the usual practice of the Government to keep the rate of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners in line with the rates payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. There were some 11,000 Australian merchant seamen engaged during the Second World War on the vital task of keeping our ships in operation. They faced the dangers of enemy operations at sea - submarines and mines - and many ships were sunk or damaged off the Australian coast. 
These seamen were given special consideration, and as a result the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act was passed in 1940 to provide pensions and other benefits to these Australian seamen for death or incapacity due to war injury suffered as a result of enemy action or as prisoners of war. Because these seamen were paid at higher rates than the average members of the forces - they received their normal rates of pay plus a substantial war risk bonus - and because they were following their normal occupation, the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act is in fact closer to workers' compensation legislation than it is to the Repatriation Act in the benefits it provides. The Act covers only injuries suffered as a direct result of enemy action, a much more restrictive definition, as honourable members will be aware, than that used for repatriation benefits. However the benefits granted under the Act are kept on a similar scale to the related benefits under the Repatriation Act. 
The number of merchant seamen involved is not great. The present total number of ex-seamen pensioners, wives, widows and dependent children is only 243. The total cost of this increase in pensions will be only $462 up to 30th June this year or $1,700 in a full year. But small though these sums are in the vast total of Commonwealth expenditure they are important to the individuals concerned and are an appropriate recognition of the debt that our community owes to them for the risks they dared to take and the injuries they suffered on behalf of. all of us in time of war. If any honourable member doubts the extent of this sacrifice I suggest that he visit the Australian War Memorial and count in the special place there devoted to merchant seamen the names of those who made the supreme sacrifice. 
We live in an era of rising expectations. Standards of living, standards of education, standards of health and standards of leisure which would have seemed Utopian a few generations ago are now within our reach, but these goals will not be reached by a mere redistribution of a static national wealth. In fact. 1 hope it will be obvious to members of the Opposition that the attempts of militant unions to redistribute wealth in favour of their members have been counterproductive for the work force as a whole. The apparent gains have been more than counter-balanced by the loss of national production through strikes and restrictive practices. There are, of course, strong arguments against uncontrolled growth, and in any debate on increased productivity we must consider possible objections, for increased productivity inevitably results in increased total production. More and more people are arguing that growth is too high a priority already and are warning of its cost in terms of threats to the environment. Prince Philip remarked scathingly that gross national product is rapidly assuming the religious significance of a graven image. Anti-growth economists on both right and left, like Professors Mishan and Galbraith, are amongst the most revered pundits of the day and scaremonger journalists have had a fine time in the last 12 months. 
We must treat any argument based on the environment with sympathy and seriousness. There are very real costs in economic growth. Higher production means more pollution of every kind - more smoke, more noise, more pesticides, more effluent and more garbage. Higher living standards, particularly the demand for more space and more mobility, must mean more encroachment on the countryside. Urban clearance will threaten historic buildings. Urban roads will ruin existing homes. Redevelopment will destroy traditional patterns of living. It follows that we must not become growth extremists, our eyes fixed on index numbers of production and seizing on any technical innovation regardless of social cost. Japan is an example of a country which, having single-mindedly pursued a goal of quantitative growth, is now counting the environmental cost and finding it extremely heavy. Our task is to ensure that growth really does lead to an increase in welfare, remembering that welfare consists not only of the quantity of goods and services which we produce but also of the quality of the environment in which we consume them. We must always bring the environmental argument into the balance sheet, and we must devote part of our growth to dealing with its costs. It can be done, given the will and the right priorities. 
The technical answers to most forms of pollution are known. We can, in the long run, produce quieter aircraft engines, pollution free cars, clean rivers, safe pesticides and effective waste disposal. Sensible planning can conserve the countryside even in the face of more people, with more cars and with more leisure. Urban planning can, in theory at least, protect the urban environment. But it will require high public expenditure, more rigorous and imaginative planning and a determination to impose on both industry and consumer the full costs of the pollution which they create. In other words, it will involve an allocation of resources which is determined not by market forces but which reflects our social priorities. But none of this is an argument against the growth we desperately need; it is an argument for discriminating growth and for applying its fruits intelligently. 
How then can we achieve growth? The main element must be increased productivity. Too many people regard an increase in productivity in secondary industry as merely a matter of the work force working harder. This, of course, has an important influence on productivity, particularly the avoidance of zero production through strikes, but there are many other reasons why output per worker is lower than it should be - excessive job changing, poor training, work restrictions and inter-union demarcation absurdities. Improvement in some of these, such as apprentice training, can and should be initiated by the Government. Others are beyond the effective control of the Government. They depend on the attitudes of the work force and, in particular, of their leaders. I hope that the de facto Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hawke,  will now devote his attention to the elimination of restrictive practices in the trade unions. If he can achieve something here, he will raise the prosperity of the community as a whole, including, of course, his union members. 
As I said earlier, many people including, I regret to say, the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia, seem to think that increased productivity is merely a matter of the work force working harder. This is not so. Increased productivity depends on 4 supports, each of which is important. Apart from a well-trained, hard working and efficient labour force, the other supports on which increased productivity must be based are more efficient management, technical innovation and wise investment in plant and equipment. In all of these fields Australia is lagging. Our management training has not kept pace with our industrial development. Although most larger firms realise the importance of management training - much of our management is still in the horse and buggy stage - too many firms still believe that management is learned through the seat of the pants, and brief sandwich courses are a substitute for sustained formal study. I confess I do not know what more the Government can do to improve management training, but I believe that any constructive proposals put forward should be examined seriously, for the problem is urgent. Although I think that the Government has done all it reasonably can to improve management training the same is not true of the last 2 factors - technological innovation and investment in equipment. 
Technological innovation should be aimed at new products or at more efficient use of labour or capital in the manufacture of existing products. A survey completed by the Australian Industrial Research Group in 1968 showed that as a proportion of the gross national product Japan spent 6 times as much as Australia on research and development, Britain 10 times as much and America 1.5 times as much. Our claim to fame seems to be that we are spending more than Greece and Spain. It is inevitable that we will have to borrow some techniques from overseas, but we must reduce the extent of this dependence because there are serious drawbacks in such a policy. Licence and royalty fees are growing every year. Last year they amounted to $70m, and this figure is likely to double every 5 years. If we rely on skill and knowledge acquired by licences and royalties we will inevitably lag behind our competitors in design and manufacturing techniques. In other words, our productivity will be poor. Moreover, with licence and royalty agreements there are frequently franchise restrictions which deny us the right to sell overseas in competition with the company which made the original design. Because technical innovation can be so important, I was disappointed by the decision last year to cut back the general Government grants for research and development from 50 per cent to 35 per cent. In my opinion this decision can only slow the rise in productivity. 
Increased investment in plant and equipment is the other key to increased productivity in manufacturing industries. International comparisons are notoriously difficult, but it does seem that Australian manufacturing investment is low by developed world standards. How are we to increase investment? The first answer is profits - a word that seems to set off Opposition members slavering like Pavlov's bitches. What does happen to profits? Firstly, nearly half goes to the Commonwealth Treasury for use on all the many purposes of government, including such things as social services and education. From the remainder of their profits the companies have to finance their new investments and return enough to their shareholders to encourage new capital formation. I would say that at the moment manufacturing industry is barely achieving this last aim, and if manufacturing profits fall it will be investment in plant and equipment, and consequently productivity, which will suffer. 1 raised the question of tax allowan.es for investment with the then Treasurer in an earlier debate, but he did not answer the question in his winding up speech, so 1 shall ask it again. 
A year or so ago the Treasurer was reasonably happy with the balance of the economy. What surely we should be restraining in our present inflationary situation are activities which have continued to rise since then, or more particularly those which are rising at an increasing rate. Neither of these is true for investment in manufacturing plant and equipment. On the figures that I have seen, the seasonally adjusted figures for investment in plant and equipment, that is, excluding buildings, have shown a slow but steady decline since March 1970. When the inflationary curbs were put on, ail the Treasury's economic indices were pointing upward except investment in plant and equipment, which was - or should have been - pointing downwards. I was rather disturbed by an answer given today by the Treasurer in reply to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  when he suggested that the Government had identified investment in manufacturing plant and equipment as an area of excessive growth, and had taken action to curb it. In fact between the last quarter of 1969 and the last quarter of 1970, mining investment rose by 51 per cent, non-manufacturing industry rose by 20 per cent, and manufacturing investment by only 10 per cent. Yet manufacturing industry investment was the only one curbed. And if we eliminate investment in mineral processing - which ail agree to be desirable - the investment in plant and equipment for the remainder of manufacturing industry actually fell during the year. To remove a taxation incentive to investment in manufacturing equipment at a time when such investment is actually falling seems to me to be dangerous and not desirable in the long term interests of Australian industry. 
If we can maintain an adequately competitive economy, we can rely on management to ensure that expenditures on research and development, and on plant and equipment, are normally aimed at increased productivity, not merely increased production. This maintenance of competition is why it is so important to enforce effective measures against restrictive trade practices, and to reduce any tariffs found to be unnecessarily high. 
I am delighted,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this debate has taken place, with the opportunity to discuss all the factors which lead to increased productivity. Two recent Government decisionsreduction of research and dev elopmcnt grants, and suspension of the taxation investment allowances for manufacturing plant and equipment can only slow the rise in productivity, and I should like an assurance from the Minister that these decisions will be reviewed - and 
I hope reversed - as soon as the economic situation permits. 
We have no chance of achieving the huge sums we require for all the needs of our community from a near static gross national product - the funds we need for health, for education or for pollution control or for any of our other goals. Growth is the essential pre-condition and productivity is the key to growth. 
This motion is typical of Labor Party philosophy to centralise everything in Canberra and ignore the rights and responsibilities of the States. 'Let big brother do it' must be the motto of honourable members opposite. But extreme centralism is not constitutional and would not be efficient in  a  country as large as Australia, appealing though it may sound to oversimplifiers. Of course, there is a co-ordinating role for the Federal Government in road safety and this role is being efficiently performed. The Australian Transport Advisory Committee, on which the Commonwealth and States are represented, is the key co-ordinating body and necessary factual information will be produced by the newly established Bureau of Transport Economics. The establishment of these 2 bodies alone is rebuttal of the vapid posturings of honourable members opposite. 
Much more is being done. Let me go through each of the elements of improved road safety and sum up what is being done by the Commonwealth within the constraints of constitutional power and administrative efficiency. Firstly, let me deal with publicity. The Commonwealth provides substantial financial support to the Road Safety Council for publicity and driver education. Secondly, we have uniform traffic rules. A great deal has been achieved under Commonwealth leadership to promote a uniform road safety code. 1 must say that I agree with the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the adoption, particularly in Victoria, of the give way to the right nile was a regrettable step. Nevertheless, a uniform road traffic code is a necessity if we are to advance and improve our standard of national road safety. The third element is improved car design. I think we all, including the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  agree that this is a key in improved road safety. The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design has done much in this area despite the comments of honourable members opposite. There are 8 design rules already in force covering such things as seat belts, steering columns and brakes. A new rule on safety glass comes into force soon. Six new rules come into force on 1st January next year covering standards for such things as rear vision mirrors and standard controls for automatic transmission. There are many more in the course of introduction. 
The next element in improved road safety must be better roads because roads are the cause of many accidents. Grants to the States under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement have risen by 67 per cent in this quinquennium. A total of $H billion will be spent between 1969 and 1974. We have vast distances to cover and therefore we need great mileages of roads. In my opinion, this allocation of resources for roads is a generous one. 
The Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance - a national body - is drawing up regulations on road standards. Now I come to the subject mentioned by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  - the man behind the wheel; the driver. He is the most important single factor in road safety. The first element at which we must look is licence standards - how a driver must be tested before he is allowed to drive a vehicle. I am sure that licensing standards must remain a State responsibility. They are of desperate importance in the quest for greater road safety. In the same way drink is clearly involved m a very high proportion of road accidents, but this too must remain a State responsibility. There are 2 other elements which affect drivers and which cannot, by the very nature of things, be the responsibility of any government. They are courtesy and commonsense. One of the main reasons for the high road toll is lack of courtesy and lack of commonsense. I do not know how we cure this, short of an education campaign and improved public awareness of what plain bad manners contribute to road fatalities. 
The next element must be traffic control - the police. The performance of the police is vital in improved road safety and efficient traffic movement. I think that, if honourable members opposite were really interested in improved road safety, they would spend less time denigrating and decrying the police and more time in building up their morale and efficiency because, as I said, they are a vital element in improved road safety. The police must remain a State responsibility. Only totalitarian states - Fascist and Communist - centralise their police forces. We must keep ours decentralised. The greatly improved financial deal given to the States this year makes it possible for them to recruit adequate numbers and to pay adequate wages and thus provide adequate forces for traffic control. One obvious way to reduce our road toll is to restrain the growth in the number of cars. If we have no cars, we have no car accidents. Australia is a very urbanised society. On that basis, we should not need the vast number of cars that we have. When in the last 
Budget the Government took some very modest measures to restrain the rate of growth in the number of cars - an increase in sales tax and a modest increase in the tax on petrol - one would have expected honourable members opposite who are interested in road safety to applaud those measures. Instead they vilified the measures. 
We on this side of the House in no way minimise the national disaster which road carnage causes, but the cure of this complaint must remain primarily a State responsibility. The Commonwealth's role is primarily control of the allocation of resources and the provision of coordination to ensure that road safety policy is uniform throughout the country. The honourable member for Newcastle introduced yet another element into the enormous bill that the Labor Party proposes to present to the public when it wants more for this and more for that. Now he wants $700m more for roads. I believe that the allocation by the Federal Government in this area is right and balanced with other requirements. The presentation of their argument by honourable members opposite has been frivolous and quite inaccurate. 
Sifting suspended from 5.55  to  8  p.m. 
My question is addressed  to the Treasurer. Will the taxation review mentioned in an answer to a question yesterday include a critical look at income tax deductions? Is it a fact that income tax deductions, other than those associated with gaining an income, are very regressive, at least in the way we allow them? In particular will the Treasurer examine closely the desirability of continuing to allow deductions for medical expenses and children? Finally, is it a fact that the present system of tax deductions for education expenses has not kept pace with the changing pattern and costs of education? 
Can the Treasurer estimate the loss in gross national product caused directly and indirectly by the recent 3-week shipping strike? Can he also estimate the consequent loss in Government revenue - revenue which would be used to the benefit pf the whole community, including such purposes as health, education and social services? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain residents of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
Earlier this year, in its efforts to reduce expenditure, the Federal Government proposed cuts in foreign aid, particularly in regard to developing countries. While we have no doubt that economies' are necessary, we hope this step will be reconsidered and that some solution be found which will not adversely affect the underprivileged, whether in Australia or overseas. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that our foreign aid will, as soon as possible, be increased to at least one per cent of the gross national product. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria, respectfully showeth: 
That there is a place in the National Health Scheme for qualified psychologists and that being so provision should be made for benefitstobe payable on services rendered by them,especially as patients are deferred to them by local qualified medical practitioners. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will take immediate steps to include qualified psychologists in the National Health Scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Budgets have many purposes. Some Budgets try to be all things to all men. I am glad that this Budget has made no such attempt. It would appear from what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that if he were ever to frame a Budget he would follow his usual policy of promising everything to everyone ?nd he would then perform the difficult anatomical feat of falling flat on his face in all directions simultaneously. Budgets have to be more responsible than the Leader of the Opposition realises. A wisely framed Budget, such as this one, can be an important short term regulator of the economy and, in the pre sent dangerous inflationary situation, we should examine this Budget to see how effective it will be in controlling the economy, for this must be the overriding purpose of this Budget. 
Of course there is nothing new about inflation. Retail prices have been rising at an average rate of 2.8 per cent a year since federation. Between 1963 and 1970 the rises averaged 2.5 per cent. The trade unions, employers and the general public at large became adjusted to this rate of increase. The danger is that once a rate of inflation becomes accepted it is very difficult to break it, as Britain and America are now finding out. Now that our rate of inflation has risen to a quite unacceptable 6 per cent we must take urgent action to break the pattern before it becomes institutionalised. 
All the elements of demand - pull inflation are here. Why has it not yet become effective? The answer seems to be that the rate of saving is surprisingly high. A cause of this high rate of savings would seem to be the interest rate and, perhaps even more, the feeling that interest rates have reached a peak and can only decline and therefore it is important to invest savings now. If this estimate is true, we may not see the present level of savings continue. We certainly should not push up interest rates any further. Therefore we must look elsewhere for controls on demand inflation. Restraints on Government expenditure will contain gross aggregate demand, but there is a severe limit to how much Government expenditure can be contained in the short term if we are not to suffer unacceptable damage to the quality of the services provided. 
For the first time our balance of payments position enables us to consider using increased imports to balance our internal economic situation. With full employment, it is possible to increase our output only by increased productivity and a sharp rise in productivity is most unlikely in the near future. But increased imports could be achieved relatively quickly and easily by adjusting tariffs. I do not support the concept of an across the board cut in tariffs because it would be far too crude and, as the effects have never been investigated, we could inflict irreparable damage on important industries. But one step we could and should take straight away is to lower tariffs to the British preferential level for products where the British preference is the minimum of  Ti  per cent and where there are substantial British imports, that is, products in which Britain is competitive. The resulting increased inflow of goods would not only help to balance our economy, but it would tend to encourage Australian firms to consolidate into units of optimum size and also to discourage the ever ready granting of over-award wages or excessive salaries. 
The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission usually is painted as the villain in our present cost-push inflationary crisis, and certainly last year's 6 per cent national wage rise was remarkably ill-judged. I hope that in the next national wage case the Commission will learn from the consequences of its earlier action and make wiser decisions. But unless the Commission is restructured, it does not seem that it will be able to make judgments that really reflect the needs of the economy, and this is a fact of life with which we have to live for the present. 
But the Arbitration Commission is not really responsible for the present trouble which is caused by the wages drift, overaward payments by employers, either forced by ruthless use of union monopoly power, or by employers competing among themselves for scarce specialised labour. What can we do to control the alarming rise in the wages drift which, on top of the 6 per cent national wage rise, has caused our present inflationary crisis? According to the Treasury bulletin of July this year, weekly wage rates have risen by 9.5 per cent from the March quarter of last year to the March quarter of this year, but over the same period weekly earnings rose by no less than 13 per cent. Some of the wages drift undoubtedly is caused because the firms concerned know that they can pass the cost on to the consumer in the form of a price rise, and this type of inflation is perhaps better named 'managedprice inflation' rather than 'cost-push inflation'. 
Government policy can and is doing something about this type of inflation, through the enforcement of the legislation against restrictive trade practices. But beyond a certain point, increased forced internal competition may not be beneficial because it may result in the splintering of the industry into too many small high cost units. The admission of more imports through the lowering of tariffs, as I suggested a moment ago, does not have this disadvantage. However, we must not hope for too much from such measures, because there is evidence that prices are rising fastest in the non-manufacturing sectors of industry which would not be affected by tariff changes. 
Other action which the Government is taking to restrain cost-push inflation, through competitive bidding up of wages for scarce specialist labour, is in labour training and retraining to eliminate scarcities, and in the migration programme, although in the immediate future I should like to see the latter programme more specifically and deliberately aimed at the areas of specialised labour shortage.But are these measures enough? The answer must be, I think, perhaps. Some honourable members opposite, with short memories, would like to see us institute price control. There are 3 difficulties in this. The first is that it would be illegal because it is beyond our constitutional power; the second is that it would be undesirable; and the third is that it would be ineffective. 
If a price freeze were imposed, it would remove a key pointer to where we should be investing our resources, which would be folly in a capital hungry country. It would also be unfair to those industries which have done most to absorb their rises in labour costs, and reward those which have been ruthless in passing their costs on to the community. Further, price control would be quite ineffective without quality control, and the policing of these 2 activities would involve an enormous bureaucracy - a great misallocation of our resources. The argument that if wages are controlled, therefore prices should be controlled, is totally falacious as has been shown by the extent of the wages drift. Wages are not controlled. Only minimum wages are controlled. Therefore, the true parallel would be to control minimum prices, which would be an economic absurdity. 
Some honourable members opposite seem to have a phobia about profits, I think largely because they confuse profits with profitability. It must always be remembered that 47i per cent of industrial profit goes into the Commonwealth Treasury, and from the remainder must be found the cash to plough back into new investment and sufficient dividends so that the industry can attract scarce capital. A disturbing thing is the falling trend in profitability in manufacturing industry. According to a recent P.A. survey, the median return has dropped from 8.9 per cent in 1969 to 8.3 per cent in 1970, and is expected to drop even further in 1971. 
At the same time as manufacturing profitability is falling, profitability in nonmanufacturing industry seems to be rising, and this trend is likely to continue because many of our manufacturing industries face heavy costs for environmental control measures. This is one reason why the investment allowance for plant and equipment is so important, and I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  will soon be able to restore it. But if this cost-push inflation continues at its present alarming rate, and even more, if the rates increase, we cannot merely sit back and wait for long-term effects. I think that the Government should be prepared to consider decisive action to reduce the wages drift. We must break the present pattern of inflation before it becomes set. 
There is some evidence, which was examined in the latest 'Australian Economic Review', that salaries have been rising faster than wages, and that the Commonwealth Public Service has been setting the pace in some areas. It seems to me to be intolerable, at a time when the Government is exhorting everyone to hold down wage and price increases, that the Commonwealth's own employees have been setting the pace in wage rises. The Parliament has set an excellent example. Parliamentary pay has been static since 1968, although the pay of the civil servants with whom we were aligned then has since increased by more than 32 per cent. These figures were provided to me by  Mr Pro  Bono Publico with whom honourable members no doubt are familiar. Although we dislike this situation, I must say that I applaud this restraint by Parliament. But unfortunately the Public Service Board has not taken the lead. As it has not taken the lead, I think that it must be told publicly that average incomes in the Public Service must not rise by more than 5 per cent during 1971-72. 
Only by a decisive action such as this can the Government give the necessary lead to the nation's employers. If the nation's employers find it difficult to take this lead, I suggest that we should consider taking comparable action in the private sector. One way of achieving this would be to make new over-award wage agreements not tax deductible by employers, and any increase in salaries in excess of 5 per cent during the year should similarly not be tax deductible. I believe that this would provide a strong emergency disincentive to the wages drift. Whatever the drawback of these actions, I believe that they are less than that of rampaging inflation, and I think we should be prepared to take a difficult decision such as this if inflation does not soon dampen down. 
What does the Opposition offer? The Leader of the Opposition offers a 35-hour week and an extra week's annual leave, which would add sharply to the cost-push, and he would like to superimpose demandpull inflation on top of cost-push inflation by increasing Government expenditure in nearly every area. Of course, he suggests that Government expenditure would not increase if the measures which he proposed were adopted, claiming that control by a central Canberra bureaucracy would reduce costs. This is nonsense, and I am sure that he knows it is nonsense. I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition should listen to his economic adviser and speech writer, or, if he has been listening to him, he should sack him. A case can be made for increased taxation to provide increased Government services to the community but it is significant that the Leader of the Opposition does not dare to make it. He did indulge in a lot of scare talk about unemployment. In fact the most probable increase in unemployed after the next election will be the present Leader of the Opposition though I doubt whether that would be important statistically. 
There is a very important step taken in the Budget, a step that seems to have passed largely unnoticed. There has always been a conflict over the interest rate, between the need to adjust it for economic purposes and the desire to keep it artificially low for social purposes, such as low income housing. 1 have long believed that it would be more sensible to make direct grants for these social purposes rather than to distort the interest rate, and this has been done in the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. If the Treasurer follows this principle to the logical conclusion he will provide himself with an interest rate which is a far more flexible instrument for monetary control. I hope too that he will then feel able to allow the trading banks more freedom in setting their own interest rates. The present interest rate in a country chronically short of capital makes for very conservative bank lending policies. More interest rate flexibility would encourage banks to lend to more speculative ventures and would make for better distribution of our scarce capital resources. 
Of course, the control of inflation is not the only purpose of this Budget. Because of the need to restrain Government spending the possibility for new social initiatives is very limited. Nevertheless, I am glad to see the rise in child endowment and in pensions although I should have liked to have seen some form of automatic cost of living adjustment for pensioners, for pensioners of all people have the least margin to absorb increases. When we consider the effect of the Budget on productivity and growth we must also consider the effects on the environment. Australia is one of the few countries which has the opportunity to control pollution but that chance will not last much longer. We must face up to the economic consequences of pollution control. The broad principle must be to impose on both industry and consumers the full costs of the pollution they create. We must face the fact that a reduction in the amount of pollution caused by secondary industry will cost money. Tackling the simple problems first is not necessarily the best long term course and we must realise that hasty changes can have unacceptable long term effects. In other words, this is an area where keeping cool and thinking first are justified. 
I realise of course that, because of our peculiar Constitution, control of the environment rests chiefly with the States. Nevertheless, this House must be concerned because of the very substantial economic effects and because of the diversion of resources which environmental control will cause. There is an alarming amount .of emotion and also alarmingly few facts on what is involved. The first report of  tha  Standing Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution in Britain is an absorbing document. I wish we had such a Standing Royal Commission here. The British Royal Commission makes an attempt to analyse the problems of pollution control in terms of costs and benefits. It admits that there is no completely scientific and objective means of making such an analysis, but that these difficulties must not prevent us from reaching decisions about the benefits of cleaner air and water, less noise and a pleasant countryside, compared with the benefits which might result in meeting claims on resources in such fields as houses, health and education. We need such a study here, and as the decision is ultimately an economic one, I hope the Treasurer will initiate it. 
The final aspect of the Budget which I should like to tackle is whether parliamentary control is adequate. I do not think it is in regard to taxation which Ls not really scrutinised at all during Budget debates. In fact, debate in this House is a most unsuitable means of examining a subject such as taxation with its intricate detail and obscure consequences. There are, in my opinion, many defects in our present tax system which could and should be rectified. [ have spoken in this House on several occasions on the shortcomings of income taxation deductions, many of which I believe are unjustified. The rest are either inadequate or apply in the wrong way. There are many problems which are crying out for examination by a select committee of this House. It is true that they are presumably examined by the Treasury and the Commissioner of Taxation but these are instruments of the Executive and their deliberations are in secret and do not absolve this House as the legislative body from its responsibility of examining them publicly. 
I am aware of the dangers in setting up too many committees - a trap into which the Senate has fallen - but I believe that probably the most important single committee this House could have is a standing committee on taxation, which would examine all tax measures and investigate anomalies. The ultimate decision, of course, on which tax measures to apply would still rest with the Government which has the responsibility to raise the money and to bear the political odium. Yet an examination by a standing committee of this House would, in many ways, ease the task of government in making taxation reforms and in any case it is the responsibility of this House to examine the tax structure regularly, a duty which it is nor carrying out now and it has not done as far back as I can trace. This failure should be rectified. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister received any representations from people in the television industry concerning greater Australian content in television programming? 
Has the Minister for Customs and Excise seen reports that commercial television stations have refused 2 advertisements on the dangers of smoking prepared by the Victorian Anti-Cancer Council? Will the Minister consider arranging additional screenings of these educational films on Australian Broadcasting Commission television stations as part of the programme on the dangers of drugs of addiction? 
The policy of the Government on social services is to give most aid where it is most needed. This is an honourable and proper policy. What is the policy of the Opposition? Insofar as it has a policy and is not merely opposing for the sake of opposing, the Opposition would like to spread social services equally over the community regardless of need and regardless of the fact that this would inevitably mean less to those who need it most - at the some time, of course, weeping copious crocodile tears for the plight of the poor. Let us examine what has been done in the last 22 years of rule by the present Government parties. Over these years pensions have steadily risen faster than the cost of living. I must admit that I would like to see automatic cost of living adjustments for pensioners together with additional increments so that pensioners share in rising national prosperity, for pensioners of all people have the least margin to absorb rises in the cost of living. But we must recognise that the pension has been rising substantially faster than the cost of living. Social service expenditure this year will be 14i per cent higher than last year and represents a real increase in the purchasing power of the pension. For instance, while the consumer price index rose by 5.4 per cent between the 1970 and 1971 Budgets, the standard rate of pension rose by 11.3 per cent. (Quorum formed.) 
One fact that is always ignored by the Opposition is the extent of the fringe benefits which this Government has provided for pensioners. Concessions for transport and the pensioner medical service add several dollars to the value of the pension. There are other fringe benefits. The rate for a combined radio and television licence will now rise by $6.50 to $26.50' but pensioners will be unaffected by the rise and will continue to pay only $4. The value of their concession thus rises from $16 to $22.50. Similarly, while general telephone rental rates will rise by $8 pensioner rates will rise by only $5.32, raising the value of the concession from $15 to more than $18. Increases in pharmaceutical costs will not affect pensioners to the same extent as the rest of the community. Of course pension rates are not the only aspect of social services to be improved in the Budget. 
Child endowment, a measure first introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government as was generously recognised by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  has been increased for third and subsequent children, so that a family with 3 children receives a total income supplement of $2.50 a week while a family with 4 children receives $5.75. On this side of the House we have always believed that particular help should be given to families with children. When wage increases have to be spread ' over a greater number of dependants the relative improvement of the whole family is reduced. Increases in child endowment for the third and subsequent children will 
Assistance to one-parent families ranks very high in Government priorities. In the Budget there were great increases in the child's allowance so that $4.50 a week will be paid for each child, representing an increase of $2 for the first and $1 for subsequent children. For instance, a widow with 3 dependant children will receive a total payment of $38.25, or $45 if she had 4 dependant children. The special attention that is being given to assistance to families with children stands as a key feature of the social services programme. 
These advances in social services are important but there are limits to what can be done. In this Budget the main aim had to be to control inflation because inflation not only damages the economy as a whole but also damages the pensioners and particularly the retired non-pensioners who are living on fixed incomes. The Budget is a responsible attempt to contain inflation. 
The Opposition on the other hand would have the Government embark on a programme of galloping inflation. Not only would it spend more in every direction but the Leader of the Opposition would like to abandon the means test at an annual cost of $300m. He under-estimated by only about $140m and ignored the fact that this would increase the annual cost of each future $1 rise in the pension from $60m to $100m. This could not but harm existing pensioners. The Leader of the Opposition would have us spend more in every other direction and this could only add disastrous demand-pull inflation to our present cost-push inflation. Pensions are basically a transfer payment from the current work force to those in need. Our ability to provide adequately for those in need depends ultimately on the output of the current work force. The Opposition would like to see this output cut sharply by reducing the 
Did the Minister representing the. Minister for Health see recently in the . 'National Times' a report which claimed that a high proportion of doctors were not observing the common fees? ls this correct? 
Is the Minister for the Navy aware of considerable dissatisfaction amongst the naval dockyard police over pay? Is it a fact that naval dockyard police recruits most have a lengthy naval career before they are able to join the force? How does their pay compare with that of the Commonwealth police? Will the Minister undertake an early review of their pay rates? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the withdrawal of troops from an active combat zone is an operation of considerable danger? ls it a fact that a debate on the security of the Vietnam task force could not be effectively conducted without revealing troop movements and contingency plans, thus greatly increasing the danger to our troops? Will the Prime Minister consult the Leader of the Opposition to ascertain whether, in the interests of the safety of the troops involved, he is prepared to defer any debate on this subject until the troops have returned to Australia? 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the makes and countries of origin of the official cars supplied for the use of Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Missions overseas as at 30th June 1971. 
How many of these cars were supplied during the year ended 30th June 1971, and of these how many were of distinctly Australian manufacture. 
Encouragement of manufactured exports is vital to our future. We must find new initiatives to encourage a further rapid growth of manufactured exports. We are sometimes inclined to console ourselves with the thought that although rural export income now has little growth potential, by great good fortune our mining exports have high growth potential. We often seem to forget that if our export income is to reach something like $6,000m by the mid 1970's, a figure put forward by the Export Development Council as necessary for the continuance of our rate of economic and population growth if we are to reach that figure, we will require a great increase in manufactured exports. In fact, if we make an assessment of our prospects of reaching that export figure, we will find that manufactured exports, which are now earning around 20 per cent of all export income, must by the mid 1970's be earning onethird of our export income. Such an increase is not going to happen by chance. It will happen only if firm and consistent policies are pursued by both Government and industry. 
The Export Payment Insurance Corporation has done much to assist our manufactured exports. Last year the Corporation underwrote a higher volume of business for capital goods than the total of such business over the previous 2 years. The Corporation also covers claims and buyer and political losses. All this is valuable, but it is not enough. As the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation puts it in its annual report: 
In no other area of international trade is the competition keener than for capital goods contracts. Here, the advanced nations vie for business with a whole range of sophisticated techniques and inducements. Buyers are courted with long term loans at favourable rates of interest and sometimes a grace period of several years before repayments commence. 
It is well known that some countries have for many years directly underwritten export contracts for credit sales of capital equipment and other sales of a major nature. It is a commonplace for Governments to arrange for funds to be available on terms which will enable credit conditions to be more attractive than those available from competing countries. 
Examples of incentives used in other countries can be seen in, for example, the Government's Export-Import Bank in Japan, providing short term export credits at 2 to 3 per cent below normal rates, and long term credits of up to 10 years also below normal rates. In the United States of America there is the Export-Income Bank, a government instrumentality, which 
The Bill also broadens the existing insurance and guarantees provisions of the Act by giving the Corporation the authority to enter into re-insurance arrangements with its counterpart organisations in other countries, where this would facilitate Australian exports. This is good, but it may not be enough. We must not only make improvements in our export schemes, but we must maintain - and if possible improve - our relative position with our competitors. It is unfortunate that at this time there is some uncertainty about the future of export incentives because of the transfer of payroll tax to the States. True, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has announced that the payroll tax export incentive will continue to be operated by the Commonwealth in a way that will enable exporters to continue to obtain its benefits in the same way as in the past, with the Commonwealth making direct payments, until 30th June 1973. The Government has also promised to carry out a review of the arrangements by 1973, and presumably after that date some new incentive arrangement will apply. 
This does introduce uncertainty, and it is an uncertainty that will grow as the months go by and no announcement is made about the post 1973 arrangements. Meering our need for a dramatic increase in manufactured exports is not helped by this situation. We must expedite our review, and it must be open-minded, seeking the best incentives that will meet our need. Should we not be considering the lead taken by some other countries? Admittedly our scope for doing some of the things some of them do is limited because we do not have import licensing, which lends itself to export bonus licensing, and we do not have scope for currency retention schemes or multiple exchange incentives. Our scope for new incentives seems to be largely in the area 
For example, Western European countries which have adopted a value added tax as a principal means of raising revenue have great scope for export incentive by exempting exports from that tax, not only so far as the finished products are concerned, but also for plant and equipment, materials and services used in their production. I do not necessarily advocate the adoption of a value added tax. I simply point out that Australia with direct income and company tax as chief revenue sources, has much more difficulty than those countries in putting exporters in the best competitive position, so much so that our payroll tax incentive scheme seems a relatively niggardly effort. Even New Zealand has an export incentive scheme which eases the income tax on exporters. 
I can understand our Treasury having the horrors at the thought of an export growth concession eating into income and company tax, and for that reason it has fought strongly and successfully over the years to limit the incentive to payroll tax rebates, which have many anomalies and a limited ceiling. Export trade is highly competitive, and if our manufactured exports are to grow as they must, we will have to be constantly vigilant to see that they are not operating at a disadvantage compared with their competitors. This I am sure the Minister for Trade and Industry will do. But export incentives and assistance are not enough. As an exporting country, we must produce the right products at competitive prices. The current wage inflation is a serious threat to the success of our exports. Fortunately, perhaps, our competitors are also suffering from inflation, but this may not last. The measures taken by the Government to restrain inflation are vital to our export trade. 
But wage costs are not the only aspect that we must keep under constant scrutiny. Investment in plant and equipment is a vital component of a successful export drive. I have spoken to this House before about the importance of restoring the 20 per cent tax allowance for investment in plant and equipment. Such investment is financed principally from profits, and profits of companies as a proportion of net national product have fallen sharply in recent years from 12.2 per cent in 1969-70 to 10.8 per cent in 1970-71. This is a disturbing fall, and its significance is reinforced by a survey of a sample of Australian companies taken by P.A. Management Consultants, which showed that the median return on shareholders' funds fell from 9.3 per cent in 1966 to S.9 per cent in 1969 and 8.3 per cent in 1970. At the time the investment allowance was removed as an anti-inflation step, all the economic indicators were pointing upwards, except for investment in plant and equipment which was pointing downwards, and has continued to point downwards, to the detriment of our long term industrial future. lt is worth noting what other countries do about comparable allowances. In Britain, for instance, 80 per cent of investment in plant and equipment is tax deductible in the first year, and this rises to 100 per cent in special development areas. Ireland runs one of the most lavish investment incentive schemes in the world. Capital grants defray well over two-fifths of the total capital costs on new plants in special areas, and a third of total capital costs in the country as a whole, and there is a 15- year tax holiday on profits made from exports. As a result in 10 years Ireland has, not surprisingly, multiplied its industrial exports 5 times. These two examples show how 2 export-oriented countries tackle this problem. I believe we must become similarly export oriented. And if we do re-introduce an investment allowance, as I believe we should, I hope it will bc given a continuity of at least 4 years, for this is the sort of time scale for major investment in plant and equipment. 
Another problem we must be concerned with is technological innovation. As a proportion of gross national product Japan spends 6 times as much on research and development as we do, Britain 10 times as much and America 15 times as much. Because of our inadequate research and development, licence and royalty fees are growing every year. If we rely on skill and knowledge acquired by licences and royalties we will inevitably lag behind our competitors in design and manufacturing techniques. Moreover, with licence and royalty agreements there are frequently franchise restrictions which deny us the right to sell overseas in competition with the company which made the original design. 
For these reasons I regret the cutback from 50 per cent to 35 per cent in the general grants provided by the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. I understand that in absolute terms the cutback was from $17m per annum to $13m per annum. Since this Act was intended as a stimulus, a cutback is unwise. Businessmen will go along with a statement that because of budget difficulties the Government could not allow the sum to grow, but they are likely to be discouraged by a cutback. The general grants are directed at medium sized to smaller companies and they are hit by the cutback from 50 per cent to 35 per cent. This is a great pity because the figures quoted in the third annual report of the Grants Board show how strongly such companies responded  to  the stimulus, particularly those which had not done this work before. 
The grant is not a handout: it is a stimulus to companies to spend more of their gross profit in this important work and it is an axiom that an incentive does not yield adequate results unless it is good enough. Since the grant is taxable, the 35 per cent represents only about 18 per cent contribution  to  the cost of increased work and most observers agree that this is not much of an incentive for increased expenditure. Basically the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act is a good, practical one, suitable for Australian conditions, and I am sure we should be gratified by its success, as demonstrated by the growth outlined in the Board's annual reports. 
There was to be a review of the present Act in 1970-71 to determine the form of a new Act which would replace it in June 1972. I hope the new Act will avoid some of the anomalies in the present Act. The most important of these are, firstly, in calculating work expenditure in the base year the cost of part-time employees must be included but the cost of such employees is excluded in the grant year. Both years should be constant in calculating work expenditure. Secondly, when a company contracts out industrial research and development it is charged with all the normal expenses which a contractor would seek to recover, namely, the cost of wages, salaries, materials consumed and all other overheads, plus a profit, and this is allowable for grant purposes. Yet when the work is done within the company considerable limitations are placed on the expenses that can be taken into account. It would be equitable to allow the same kind of expenses in both instances, particularly since in-company industrial research and development is more likely to lift the total technical tone of the company. Thirdly, as the Act now stands a grant is not made for plant expenditure which exceeds work expenditure. In an age which is committed to finding ways of minimising the use of labour this is a curious provision, particularly where expensive labour is involved. 
The Industrial Research and Development Grants Act is very technical legislation, and I urge the Minister to publish the proposed new Act as a White Paper for informed public discussion, before having introduced into the House. I am strongly in favour of what is being  done in the present Bill. I have drawn the attention to the House to some complementary action which I believe should be seriously considered, not only to encourage exports, but also to restore flagging business confidence. 
-This debate is typical of the Opposition's approach to social problems. It can be summed up as 'Let Big Brother do it'. If one is prepared to ignore long experience of the costs and results of over-centralised administration and the facts of human nature one can make a plausible case for a compulsory comprehensive medical care programme. But reality destroys this superficially plausible case. Take Britain, for example. In theory the capitation system of medical care - a system I am sure the Labor Party would like to introduce here, despite its denials - should encourage preventive treatment and improve genera! medical care. In practice it does no such thing, as the many refugees from Britain's health scheme now living in Australia will attest. The problem of how to lift people living near the poverty line out of that state is one that is vexing all affluent societies. We must somehow break the cult of poverty. We must help these people to help themselves, not merely to wait for another government handout. The subsidised health benefits plan is fully in accordance with these principles. 
Low-income families make application to the Department of Social Services where eligibility is assessed and a certificate issued. They then present this certificate to a fund where they are enrolled as members and accredited with all or part of their contributions. The date of eligibility is the date the application is lodged with the Department of Social Services. On each occasion they incur medical or hospital expenses they submit a claim to their fund in the normal way. I submit that these are reasonable requirements. I accept that many of the low-income families are poorly educated and some must perhaps be helped in taking these steps, but this is much better than converting it into another government handout. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  made much play of the low proportion of those eligible who are receiving benefits. It is worth while examining these figures in a little more detail. When the graduated scheme was introduced in July 1970 it was estimated that 184,000 families would be eligible for assistance. As the Minister pointed out, these estimates were based on taxation statistics for the income year 1966-67 as those were the latest figures available at the time. The figures represented the maximum number of lowincome families which could become eligible for the assistance available. Since then, the income levels of eligibility for assistance have been adjusted to keep pace with the cost of living. Yet, the effect of the rising prosperity of this country is that the number estimated to qualify for this assistance fell to 152,000 in 1968-69 and may well have fallen to 125,000 by 1970-71. I should have thought that this evidence of a reduction in poverty would have delighted the honourable member for Oxley, but he seems to conceal his pleasure very well. 
A further factor is that free hospital and medical treatment is available in Queensland. Families in that State, therefore, would not need to enrol under the subsidised health benefits plan. This would reduce the estimated number of eligible families to about 110,000 instead of 180,000 as mentioned by the honourable member for Bendigo. Still, I do not suppose that he will be too worried about an error of 40 per cent. 
Why have not all of the 1 10,000 eligible persons applied for assistance? The answer seems to lie in the nature of the people whom the plan is designed to assist. They do not apply for assistance until they need medical or hospital care. It is probable that a large number of eligible families have not applied for assistance because they have not needed hospital or medical treatment. This view is supported by the fact that only 30 per cent of contributors insured with hospital benefits fund in the normal way claim benefits in any one year. Hospital treatment would be the greatest cost incurred by low income families as they would be accustomed to receiving medical treatment in the out-patient's departments of public hospitals and most probably would continue to do so. These people therefore would not seek assistance until they were hospitalised. The Government is paying the insurance funds the costs of benefits actually paid rather than paying contributions. Because of this fact, if an eligible but unregistered low income earner is hospitalised his benefits are paid without the normal waiting period of 2 months imposed by the funds. 
One recommendation of the Nimmo Committee which was not accepted by the Government concerned additional assistance for large families. The Government decided finally that health insurance should not be used as the vehicle for assistance to large families because other welfare measures such as taxation concessions and child endowment currently provide assistance of this nature. On the other hand, the Government extended the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee to cover persons receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefits through the Department of Social Services and to migrants during their first 2 months in Australia. Unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries do not need to make application; they are issued with a certificate automatically. However, they must present their certificate to a fund to receive the assistance available. 
This is a good scheme and a fair scheme. We must continue our efforts to ensure that all who are eligible are aware of their eligibility, probably through greater use of social workers, charitable organisations and other appropriate welfare groups. We must not fall into the trap, which the Opposition evidently finds so seductive, of making this another welfare State handout. The mentality which would result from such a policy would in the long nin be to the detriment both of the community and of the individuals concerned. The present policy, suitably publicised, is much to be preferred. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Has the new voluntary code to restrict television advertising of cigarettes to young people come into force? Does this code frown on advertising of cigarettes between 4 p.m. and 7.30 p.m.? Is it a fact that a recent survey by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board showed that a high proportion of 13-year olds are watching television as late as 9.30 p.m.?. In these circumstances does the Minister think that the voluntary code is a serious attempt to reduce the exposure of young people to advertising of this drug of addiction which is a known health hazard? 
There are many aspects of the affairs of this country that cannot usefully be examined through the procedures of a debate in this House. All the detailed financial examinations which are the responsibility of this House fall into this category. A proper investigation of these matters can be carried out only by a committee which can examine witnesses and consult documents, and avoid the tactics of confrontationstatement followed by flat contradiction, ending in personal abuse that all too often result from the procedures of debate. Technical matters as distinct from policy issues, need to be inquired into, through the taking of oral and written evidence rather than debated. 
This House recognised this problem when it established a Standing Committee on Public Accounts. This was a valuable step, but in my opinion it does not go far enough.I recognise that we must avoid the trap into which the Senate has fallen of setting up too many committees more than can be adequately manned and staffed. But I should like to propose 2 steps which I believe are within the capacity of this House and which would be greatly to the benefit of Parliament and the nation. 
The first proposal I have is to set up a standing committee on taxation. In this chamber we scarcely examine taxation measures at all, yet there are many areas which are crying out for examination and the type of investigation which could be satisfactorily carried out only by a committee of the House, such as the regressive nature of income tax deductions; whether the tax deductions which are allowed should be from taxable income or from tax payable; whether income in kind should be included in taxable income; and the definition of an investor. The list is almost endless. It is true that these matters are presumably kept under review by the Treasury and the Commissioner of Taxation, but they are instruments of the Executive, and do not absolve the legislature from its responsibility for closely and publicly examining the tax structure. The decision on which tax measures to apply, of course rests with the Government, for it has to raise the money and it has to bear the odium. But an examination by an all-party committee would probably make it easier for the Government to correct taxation anomalies and it is, in any case, the responsibility of the House to conduct such a continuing inquiry, and this can be done only by a standing committee as I have proposed. 
The second proposal is to set up a standing committee on expenditure. Our present control of public expenditure, through the Public Accounts Committee, is directed almost entirely to the legal aspects of control. Tha Senate committees on the Estimates examine some of the managerial aspects of control and as the ability of this small Parliament - Senate and House - to provide committees is limited, I suggest it would be wasteful for the House to duplicate the work of these Senate committees, although as the House retains the primary financial responsibility, arrangements should be made for the reports of the Senate Estimates committees to be tabled and if necessary debated in this House. 
But none of this does anything about scrutinising the long-term or strategic planning of expenditure. We do nothing at all about this and it is probably the most important aspect of Government affairs. This neglect is caused partly by the annual nature of the Estimates, but chiefly by the archaic accounting style in which they are presented. Professor Parkinson points out that our present system of accounts was designed for use during one particular period of history. Introduced during the Second Dutch War in  1666,  their primary object was to prevent money from the Navy vote being spent by Charles II on the aptly entitled Duchess of Portsmouth. Even for this strictly limited purpose the method chosen met with no startling success. The system was revised, therefore, so as to assume its present form in  1689,  from which year it more or less prevented William HI from spending the money on his friends - who were not even girls. Like most of our other institutions, we inherited this system from Great Britain, and we still have it, although Britain is moving away from it. 
The only clear justification for the present form of the Estimates is that it enables the Treasury to wield control over the day-to-day disbursement of public funds. Even for this limited purpose the present Estimates do not appear to be very effective, to judge by the frequency with which Supplementary Estimates have to be presented and by the enormous size of some of these. We would find the present form of the Estimates even more frustrating than we already do if we ever gave the Estimates serious discussion. Any commercial business which used such primitive and old-fashioned accounting methods would be bankrupt in a fortnight. 
For long-term control our present accounts are useless. A functional classification of expenditure is essential for this. The national accounts are a first step towards functional accounting for economic purposes - 'but this covers only a small part of the functions of the Estimates. The announcement of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that he intended to make 3 year projections of expenditure will be immensely valuable to the House, provided they are prepared on a functional accounting basis and provided they are examined - not debated - by a standing expenditure committee of the House. We would then, I hope, have 3 committees dealing with financial matters: The Public Accounts Committee, determining whether moneys have been spent as Parliament ordered; the estimates Committees in the Senate, watching the managerial aspects; and the expenditure committee, watching the long term policy aspects of expenditure and using functional accounts for this purpose. 
We need not, at the outset, go all the way towards planning programming budgeting for the expenditure committee I have proposed. I am sure we will get there in the end, in common with all other developed countries. This type of budgeting is designed to show the link between departmental spending and departmental objectives. By linking resources to purposes and inputs to outputs in a programme and, by looking ahead for several years, the programme budget would be designed to lead to a better appraisal of what a budget cut or increase would mean in terms of a department's programme. Linked with this, although not an essential part of it, is systems analysis to provide a systematic and comprehensive comparison of the costs and benefits of alternative approaches to a policy goal. We need not be too frightened of this for it is nothing new. Cost-benefit analyses seem to have begun in the Garden of Eden, for one is mentioned in the third chapter of the Book of Genesis. But although perhaps we may not yet be ready for systems analysis, the time is long past when we should be examining estimates on a long term functional basis, relating ends and means. This is the right - no, the duty - of this House, and we are entitled to have the Estimates presented in a form which will enable a committee of this House to carry out this examination. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman. I am sure it has not escaped your notice that I have not spoken at all on the estimates before us. I am sure that all other speakers who follow me will not do so either, because this type of debate is completely unsuitable for the detailed examination of the content and implications of the estimates, which is the inescapable responsibility of Parliament. I hope that by the time the next Estimates debates are held we will have taken the steps I have suggested, and that we will then be able to fulfil our responsibilities both to the Government and to the people. If we do not act to reform known defects in the operation of Parliament we will damage the whole machinery of Government, which depends ultimately for its efficiency on the proper working of the checks and balances. And if we denigrate Parliament, we denigrate ourselves. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and I preface it by referring to a statement issued by the Minister for the Interior in which he referred to the establishment of an advisory council on the projected use of Commonwealth land. I ask the Minister whether this council will be similar to the land use committees in the States? What will be the responsibilities and powers of this council? Will it deal with all Commonwealth Territories? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled.assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, 'he Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Monetary Aid for Pakistan's Refugees  Mr GARRICK-  I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
 Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofresidents of Mordialloc and Parkdale in Victoria, respectfully sheweth: 
That the new Australian grant of $1.5m to Pakistan refugees in India is completely inadequate and does not recognise the true value of the situation. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will immediately grant  a  further $10m in aid to Pakistan refugees and use all diplomatic channels available to urge the creation of a political climate in East Pakistan which will enable the nine million refugees in India to return to their homeland. 
And we your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The increase in aid for nursing home patients announced recently by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was very welcome. It will help to lift some of the financial burden from nursing home patients and their families. As the Prime Minister said, this is only an interim solution. The problem of the care of the aged is an immense social and economic problem. This interim solution alone will cost $24m a year. The care of the aged is a very complex problem, and I would have hoped that this House would approach this problem in a constructive way, avoiding the making of cheap, superficial party political points. Because it is a complex problem it is highly unlikely that there is a simple solution - a single panacea. 
But before we discuss how the aged should be looked after we first need some broad statistics on the composition of this group of the community. Persons aged 65 years or more constitute 8i per cent of our total population. To put this in a different context, there is one aged person for every 5 people in the work force. In the aged group, the majority are females because the life expectancy of a woman is 74 years compared with 68 for a man. Three-quarters of aged persons are householders or wives of householders. About 80 per cent of these householders own their house. Less than half of the women aged between 65 and 70 are living with their husbands, and at the age of 80 and over only one in 12 is doing so. 
A recent New South Wales study of chronic illness suggests that about 4 per cent of the population over 65 years of age are in need of help from others in many of the acts of daily living, 11 per cent are prevented from getting about alone for shopping or visiting the doctor, 15 per cent of women are handicapped in their ability to do housework, and 57 per cent of both sexes suffer from one or more chronic illnesses. About one-fifth of the aged women are childless. The aged man seems to be particularly prone to chronic illnesses and to be in need of assistance in the home. Twenty per cent of them will have no children. Of those who do have children, many of course will not live in close proximity to their children, who may be hundreds of miles away. 
A typical aged person then is a frail elderly widow, living alone in a house too large for her present needs, on an income which is scarcely adequate for food and heating, let alone for property renovations. 
She is also unlikely to be able to rely on her children to call regularly on her, or to help her with those acts of daily living with which she is coming to need assistance. How then can we best tackle this problem? We seem in our community to have lost the social pattern whereby it was considered right that elderly parents should live in the home of their children, as respected figures, for the term of their natural life. This still happens of course in some families, and perhaps would happen in more families if we could provide the right kind of assistance. If we could provide the right assistance we should certainly do so, for it is clearly economically sound for the community to have aged persons looked after in this way rather than to have them institutionalised, quite apart from the happier life the old people would live. . But the children of these aged people have their own problems. They have their own children, frequently they are both working, and they want to lead their own life. Nearly one married woman in 3 now works. There are, nevertheless, many services that could help them to accommodate their aged parents. Home help services, home nursing services, meals on wheels, paramedical services all help. 
In February 1969 the Federal Government provided $1,250,000 a year to provide a comprehensive scheme for home care for the aged. The major components of the programme were $500,000 a year for housekeeper and home help services, $500,000 a year for welfare officers' salaries and approved capital expenditure in senior citizens centre, and $250,000 for paramedical services to aged persons in their own homes. The paramedical services include physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, chiropody and social work. This offer was in addition to the current Federal Government subsidy of $885,000 a year provided for home nursing services. 
These were excellent steps, and I think we should build on them and extend them. I have a few suggested lines of attack. We should re-think our approach to home help and delivered meals. We should increase government subsidies to municipalities for home help, and we may have to professionalise the delivered meals service in some areas. We should set up centres for paramedical service, if possible close to senior citizens clubs. Full provision of paramedical services in the patients' homes is probably beyond us at present, both on financial grounds and because of the availability of staff. In any case it is probably better for these elderly people to get out of their homes occasionally if they are capable of doing so. We should integrate these municipality based services with municipal social work services, so that a co-ordinated system can exist, with a central reference point to help families make appropriate plans for their frail aged members. We should develop new domiciliary services such as home renovation and improvement services, .conversion of steps to ramps, putting handrails in bathrooms and so on. We should  provide some financial . incentives for families to care for their aged relatives in their homes. Perhaps we should give tax concessions for costs of home alterations to enable elderly people to be cared for at home, and give tax concessions for money spent by their children on medical and nursing costs. 
All these undoubtedly would be expensive, but they would be a great deal less expensive to the community than having these old people in nursing homes or institutions, which is what we are doing now. For those who have no family or who do not wish or are no longer able to live alone, it is necessary to provide home or hostel accommodation. The Federal Government is subsidising the capital cost of accommodation under the Aged Persons Homes Act on a two-for-one basis - $2 from the Federal Government for every Si raised by the organisation. This is an excellent and most successful scheme, but there is also a need for supervised hostels, where the frailer aged can be watched oyer by a resident warden, and the home help services can be called in if necessary. I think the present capital subsidy given to charitable bodies to build nursing homes associated with their aged persons homes would be better devoted to the building of hostels for the aged. Municipal councils also should be made eligible for this grant. Hostels for the aged are the most critical lack in our community, and because of this lack elderly people have to go into nursing homes, at great social cost to themselves and financial cost to the community. 
But however good our home help and accommodation is, at some point many of the aged are going to require some form of hospital care, or perhaps l had better say that they are going to have to take to their beds and be looked after by trained nurses for a great proportion of the remainder of their lives. At present Australia has 43 nursing homes beds per 1,000 aged  popular  tion compared with, for. instance, 17 in Britain and 14 in New Zealand. This extraordinary difference is a reflection on the inadequacies of our home care services and also, in the case  of . the privately run nursing homes, the lack of incentive to any rehabilitation scheme to get geriatric patients back on their feet and back in their homes again. The State-run geriatric institutions do have such an incentive. Victoria, for instance, has .5 State establishments providing accommodation for elderly persons in the metropolitan area. 
There are at present 5,315 people on the waiting lists for these institutions. The average waiting time is 12 months for males and 2 years for females, but unlike most private nursing homes they do have ah admissions policy' based on need rather than on capacity to pay. These figures of waiting times may not be as significant as they seem, as something like half the aged in these nursing homes could probably return to their homes if suitable facilities were available there, and would be better off if they did. I am told that a high proportion of those who could be discharged would need as little as half a day a week home help; at the moment the normal maximum is half a day a fortnight. These figures show both the need and the opportunity for increased home care services. 
Another advantage of the State-run institutions is that they provide the sort of ancillary services - physiotherapy, occupational therapy and so on - which are essential to any chance of rehabilitation and to the welfare of the aged if they are to live a reasonably happy life in the evening of their days. I think the future of care for the aged lies in more of this type of institution, probably one to each municipality, of about 100 bed size. This size would allow the economies of scale, including rehabilitation services, and at the same time be sufficiently numerous so that patients are not moved too far from their friends and relatives. I am opposed personally to any attempt to expand the hospital insurance scheme to cover geriatric nursing home care at the moment. I think it would be propping up a rickety system and would be encouraging the growth of large numbers of small, inefficient - but profitable - geriatric nursing homes, when the future of this type of care lies, I am sure, with the larger institutions, municipally based, which can provide efficient care and rehabilitation. This is not to denigrate the devoted work of many of the charitable nursing homes, but they are usually too small for efficient operation, and cannot afford adequate rehabilitation services. I think their activities would be better directed to the provision of hostel accommodation, of which there is a critical shortage. 
Before we get any deeper into nursing home subsidies, we must negotiate, in cooperation with the States, agreements on charges and standards of care. We also need an agreed and supervised admissions, rehabilitation and discharges policy. And we need the ordinary general practitioner to have a greater knowledge of geriatrics and the possibilities of rehabilitation. This will be a long process, because the only place to introduce this training is at the universities during their qualifying course. But our main aim at the moment must be to improve our home care and hostel accommodation, so that elderly people who do not need or want to go to nursing homes are not forced to go there - at great cost to them and to the community. The proper care of the aged is a problem that we must solve because it is up to our generation to see that the generation before us can grow old in dignity and reasonable comfort. After all, we are all going to be old some day! 
During the debate on the estimates, for the Parliament I pointed out that there .are many aspects of our national affairs that cannot usefully be dealt with by the confrontation procedure of a debate. They need to be inquired into, with witnesses and documents, rather than debated. In the past this chamber has ignored many such subjects, hoping that if it takes absolutely no notice of them, they will go away. But many of these problems will not go away so easily, and the environment is probably the most pressing of them. Australia is one of the few countries in the world with the opportunity to control pollution and retain its natural beauties, but that chance will not last much longer. In the control of pollution, our broad principle must be to impose on both industry and consumers the full cost of the pollution they create. But this will be complex and expensive, and we must realise that tackling the simple problems first is not necessarily the best long term solution and that hasty changes can have unacceptable long term effects. In short, we must keep cool and think first and, above all, we must have sound information on which to base decisions. 
Effective pollution control will inevitably have substantial economic effects, because of the inevitable diversion of resources which will be entailed. We need a detailed analysis of the problems of pollution control in terms of. costs and benefits. There is, admittedly, no completely scientific and objective means of making such an analysis, but these difficulties must not prevent us from reaching decisions about the benefits of cleaner air and water, less noise and a pleasant countryside, compared with the benefits which might result in meeting claims on resources in such fields as housing, health and education. 
Despite the special responsibilities of the States, the control of the environment is a national problem and should be concidered by the national Parliament. This is not only because the problem is in large measure an economic one, but also because environmental problems recognise no State boundaries. But although the responsibility for considering this problem rests with this Parliament, it would be futile to have a debate until a detailed inquiry into the whole problem has been held, and the results made available to members. I do not believe that this is an appropriate subject for a select committee of this House, for we lack the numbers and the expertise. 1 favour the solution adopted in Britain, of having a standing royal commission on the environment. We urgently need such a body here, for neither this House, nor the Department of the Environment, nor the State Parliaments, nor any voluntary bodies are capable of carrying out this important and urgent investigation. It is a most complex problem, part economic and part scientific, and the royal commission members will have to be skilled in one or preferably both of these fields. 
I do not think it would be appropriate for the  chairman  of such a commission to be a judge, quite apart from the improbability of a judge being available to head a standing royal commission. As a nation we seem to have an extraordinary confidence in the ability of judges to make wise decisions on complex issues in which they have no expertise. Perhaps our respect stems from the fact that our early forebears had a particularly close acquaintance with the law. I hope that the Minister for the Environment  (Mr Howson)  will set up such a standing royal commission on the environment as a matter of urgency. 
The other problem of our environment on which we are lamentably ill-informed, is in the need for outdoor recreation space. Our lack of investigation is so complete that some city planners are using British findings, although it would be difficult to find two countries more dissimilar than Britain and Australia in climate and population densities. Except in the Territories this is, of course, a State government problem. But this requirement is a national one, and this chamber could - and should - give a lead as it has with wild life conservation. An Australia-wide systematic survey of the available recreational open space has never been made, nor have reliable estimates ever been attempted of the nature and scope of future demands. There is not even a common nomenclature between the States - different States mean different things by the same words. 
We need many types of recreation areas or parks. We need large national parks - large enough to preserve land and water and plant and animal life characteristic of the country, as well as unspoiled examples of its physical features and natural phenomena. We need smaller regional parks, and district parks, and local parks. But, I repeat,  Mr Chairman,  no systematic analysis of our requirements has ever been made. We need an Australian investigation of Australian conditions, and based on the recreation patterns of Australians. Although this is primarily a responsibility to the States, I do not think it is conceivable that the States will ever get together to carry out the necessary investigation on a national scale. 
I therefore suggest that it would be an admirable subject for a select committee of this House. I am aware that there are severe limits on how many select committees this House can provide - in fact I think at present there is probably one too many. But two of these committees are coming to the end of their work and I should like to see them replaced by a select committee on national outdoor recreational requirements. I commend this proposal, together with the other one on the establishment of a standing royal commission on the environment. I commend them to the Minister. His portfolio, above all others, is one in which information on which to base policies is lacking, and I believe that the collection of this information, through public hearings by committees of investigation, and the introduction of firm and far sighted policies, in which the Federal Government must give the lead, are vital to the future of Australia and its people. 
by leave - I should like to support the remarks of the honourable members for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  and Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  on this subject. I think that the Joint Publications Committee was a very interesting and valuable committee. We turned up some extraordinary anomalies and curious his torical accidents in the distribution of various documents and papers, and we have come to clear and consistent conclusions. 
I would like to support the remarks of the honourable member for Ballaarat concerning the outstanding work done by  Mr Grahame  Horsfield, the Secretary of the Committee. It was always a source of astonishment to members of the Committee how our sometime, rambling discussions were codified to clear and concise conclusions. The best way I can sum :ip the work of the Secretary is in the words of the old poem which run: 
And so while the great ones depart for their dinner, The secretary stays growing thinner and thinner, Racking his brains to record the report. 
What he thinks they'll think they ought to have thought. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria, respectfully sheweth: 
That the new Australian grant of $l.Sm to Pakistan refugees in India is completely inadequate and does not recognise the true value of the situation. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will immediately grant a further $10 million in aid to Pakistan refugees and use all diplomatic channels available to urge the creation of a political climate in East Pakistan which will enable the nine million refugees in India to return to their homeland. Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
At the outset I should like to correct an error of fact made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  The United Kingdom refugee aid is $US37m, not pounds sterling. This alters his calculations by a factor of 2.4. Nevertheless tonight we are dealing, as both the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  have said, with one of the greatest human catastrophes in history. The number of refugees and the level of support they require almost baffle the imagination. I do not see how we can hope to support refugees at a cost of less than $100 per head each year. We have to provide not only supplies but also the means of transport and distribution. With 10 million refugees this means a commitment by the world of $ 1,000m a year. I do not know for how long the world would be prepared to provide aid on this scale, but I fear that it would not be very long. The need is thus almost limitless and how much Australia provides depends ultimately on how much the people of Australia are prepared to sacrifice for this humanitarian cause. I am sure that all honourable members have been bombarded, as I have been, with letters, telegrams and forms all appealing for increased aid for these refugees. This is a magnificent sign of the commitment of Australians to the service of others, and I hope it will continue. 
As I have said, the need for aid is a continuing one and I welcome the earlier undertaking by the Minister that the Government will keep this need constantly in mind. What we have done so far is very welcome. It has been appropriate aid. It has been prompt aid. All of it is going to the refugees for whom it is intended. But I think we should also mobilise directly the sympathy of the Australian community. Private aid to the Pakistani refugees has already amounted to something like $2m. I urge the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to consider making private donations a legitimate income tax deduction, for this would increase greatly the flow of private aid. The Government, too, should also offer its facilities to see that the flow of private aid reaches the refugees for whom it is intended. The administrative conditions in the Indian State of West Bengal are such that much of the private aid given by other countries has not reached its destination. Even before the refugees arrived, the State Government of West Bengal, which was a Comunist government, has been suspended for a time by the Central Government because of disputes over administration and law and order. After the refugees began to arrive, presidential rule from Delhi was again invoked. I believe that the administrative task of caring for these 10 million or so refugees is far beyond the Indian Government and it is regrettable that it has refused offers by the United Nations, the Red Cross and other interested bodies to assist with the administration. I understand its motives because it involves some sacrifice of pride and sovereignty but, nevertheless, in the interests of the refugees I think that the Indian Government should be prepared to make these sacrificts 
No matter how effective our humanitarian aid to these refugees is, it does not get to the root of the problem. We must not let these refugees become institutionalised like the Arab refugees in the Gaza strip or in Jordan. The only future for them is to get back to their farms and villages in East Pakistan. For this to be achieved a degree of cooperation will be required between India and Pakistan which has never been achieved in the 23 turbulent years of their history since their independence. The world must attempt to achieve this co-operation for without it the refugees have no future. 
What must be done to make it possible for the refugees to return? First, Pakistan will have to offer some reasonable degree of autonomy to East Pakistan and control the operations of the Pakistan Army and, more particularly, their teenage auxiliaries to create an atmosphere of stability and confidence in East Pakistan, ft must guarantee also the return of land belonging to refugees which has been expropriated. I think it may also have to offer to have United Nations observers, with its army and support forces, to convince the world and the refugees that this is its policy. 
This refugee disaster was provoked by the Pakistan Government and Army and they must take the major steps in doing what they can to repair the situation. 
But it is not Pakistan alone which must take action; India, too, has much to answer for. At present, refugees are still coming out from East Pakistan at the rate of more than 100,000 a week, many of them fleeing because of the operations of the Indian supported liberation army. If India is sincere in its desire to minimise the refugee problem and to get the refugees back to their homeland quickly, the Indian Government must withdraw all support from the liberation guerrilla army and discourage its activities so far as this lies within the Government's power. I believe also that the Indians should accept, as the Pakistanis have done, the offer to have United Nations observer teams along the border between India and East Pakistan. This would facilitate the orderly return of the refugees who wish to go back to their villages. It would also reduce the threat of a direct conflict between the Indian and Pakistan armies. There are fewer than 100,000 Pakistan troops in East Pakistan and, embroiled as they are in counter guerilla operations, they present no conceivable threat to India. I believe that the moves of the Indian Army to the borders of East Pakistan and India's refusal to have a United Nations observer team on the borders are designed to force the Pakistan Army to move its forces to the border area and thus reduce its effectiveness in anti-guerrilla operations. This is, I consider, a discreditable activity by the Indians and one they should cease forthwith. 
This is a very confused situation and it is hard to get the truth from conflicting and irreconcilable claims. I have given what I believe is a true picture and one that reflects little credit on either India or Pakistan who have allowed their mutual hatred to override their compassion for the 10 million refugees. I do not know whether  it  will be possible for anyone  to  induce Pakistan and India to co-operate, but we should continue to do all we can both directly and through the United Nations to achieve whatever is possible, for our overriding aim must be to achieve conditions so that these refugees can go home. In the meantime, of course, the humanitarian problem remains. I applaud the announcement the Minister has made tonight and hope that over future months it will be followed by further similar announcements. I urge him also to consider seriously the possibility of encouraging private aid in the way I have suggested. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria, respectfully sheweth: 
We recognise the Aid already given to Pakistani refugees now in India by the Australian Government, but due to the magnitude of the disaster, we urge the Government to substantially increase and continue this aid. 
We urge the Australian Government to use its influence with its friends and allies to initiate action which will lead West Pakistani authorities to withdraw its troops from East Bengal and negotiate with the provisional Government of Bangla Desh to bring about a speedy rehabilitation of the refugees in their own country. 
And we your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies, The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced person are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and further $50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Defence of the community against external threats is probably the oldest function of govern ment, and it is still the most vital. It is true that we do not face any immediate threat. This has been the result of wise government policy in the past and if we continue to follow firm and wise policies we will continue to keep any threat away from our shores. If members of the Opposition ever had their way 1 am sure we would soon have a threat on our doorstep. The statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that Australia's strategic boundaries were her natural frontiers must rank very high in the annals of strategic folly, although it would probably have had the sincere support of the late King Ethelred the Unready. 
A prominent member of the front bench of the Australian Labor Party recommends our withdrawal from all military alliances. Such a retreat into isolationism would not only endanger the future of this country, but would also be a supreme act of international selfishness. I suppose when our friendly neighbours appealed to us for support against external aggression he would send them his best wishes, or perhaps repeat the remark of Neville Chamberlain after the sell-out of Czechoslovakia at Munich, when he referred to 'a quarrel in a far-away country between people of whom we know nothing'. The great problem of defence planning is the time scale. Equipment that we are considering now will not be in service much before the end of this decade, and will remain in service until the year 2,000. We must think a long way ahead in our defence planning, not concentrate on the past, as is the habit of honourable members opposite. 
One great new area nf concern is the Indian Ocean - a strategic vacuum now that Britain has withdrawn almost all her forces from east of Suez. There is much speculation as to the purpose of the Russian move into the Indian Ocean. Russian naval policy since the Second World War has been marked by vast expenditure and expansion, and sudden reversals of policy. The last major change, the third since the Second World War, occurred in the early 1960s. The Russians had greatly underestimated the potential of polaris-type nuclear submarines, and in the 1950s had devoted an enormous amount of energy to building a largely useless Navy. Their present policy comprises 3 elements: Firstly, the build-up of a large polaris-type nuclear submarine force - this they have achieved; secondly, the provision of destroyers and submarines with long range cruise missiles to counter the American attack carriers; and thirdly, the build up of anti-submarine forces to counter the American polaris submarines. 
The Russians have attached great importance to the threat of the American carriers. They have designed several classes of ships and submarines with cruise missiles. The ships are in fact very limited and extremely vulnerable to air attack, and would not be suitable for anything except this highly specialised role. They need accurate target information in order to use their long range anti-ship missiles, and this is normally provided by suicide ships which are always lurking near American attack carriers. I think this whole concept is out of date, but it does explain much Russian activity in areas where American attack carriers operate. 
The other activity of the Russians is the development of their anti-submarine forces to counter the American polaris submarines, in the hope that some technical breakthrough will make it possible to locate these submarines with some reliability. Much of the Russian naval deployment must be seen as an attempt to provide a counter, albeit an ineffective one, to the polaris submarines. I believe their incursions into the Indian Ocean have so far been chiefly directed to investigating the problems of providing a counter to American polaris submarines operating in the Arabian Sea. However, the Russians will not be able to maintain an anti-polaris force in the Indian Ocean unless the Suez Canal is opened and probably unless they can also obtain bases, perhaps in Mauritius or perhaps in the Red Sea. But although I believe that the present Russian deployments are basically defensive, once ships and bases are established in the Indian Ocean they may and probably will be used for other purposes. I do not believe that in the foreseeable future the Russians would attempt to use their ships to disrupt commercial shipping in the Indian Ocean, short of a general war because the risks would far outweigh the possible gains. What is more likely is that they would use their naval forces in a modern form of gunboat diplomacy, fermenting revolutions and harassing non-Communist governments. 
How does this affect Australia? As I have said, I do not think our vital supply routes across the Indian Ocean will be harassed by the Russian presence. But, particularly if the Russians obtain a base in the eastern half of the Indian Ocean, our attempts to assist stability in the area to our north might be severely hampered. For that reason I would support a considerable expansion in our Navy, particularly in destroyers. I am nevertheless somewhat alarmed at what I have heard of the light destroyer project. I would be surprised if, by the time these ships are ordered in 1973, their cost is less than $100m a ship, quite apart from any escalation in costs which occurs during construction. These so called light destroyers will not only be the biggest destroyers we have ever built, but also probably the costliest defence programme on which this country has ever embarked. 
I suspect that these ships have been subject to intensive systems analysis. The trouble with systems analysis is that an elaborate superstructure is often built on the most flimsy foundations - the flimsy foundation in this case being the nature of the threat which these ships will have to counter. I do not believe these ships will be in direct conflict with the Russian long range missile firing destroyers. I see rather their role in brush-fire wars in the vital area to our north, for which a much less complicated ship would be adequate. If a taxi company chose its taxis after systems analysis, but without considering capital cost, it would probably finish with a small fleet of Mercedes instead of a large fleet of Holdens. 
We have limited capital resources for our Navy, and with our vast distances we have a need for many individual units because a ship cannot be in 2 places at once. I should like an assurance from the responsible Minister, that in considering the light destroyer project, due weight was given to the likely capital available for this programme and to the number of ships required, and the resultant unit cost has been an overriding factor in the design. This Committee cannot usefully consider the detailed equipment and design of these ships. We must rely on the experts for that, but I do think we are entitled to the assurance I have sought from the Minister. To modify the Duke of Wellington, I hope these ships will be as terrifying to our potential enemies as their cost is to me. 
I am sure we should design and build our ships in Australia. The quality of our ship construction is unsurpassed. We are a maritime people. Eighty five per cent of our population lives within 25 miles of the sea. The only threat to our survival comes from across the sea. We rely on the use of the sea for our economic survival as one of the great trading nations of the world. I support these estimates and hope for the sustained expansion of the Navy. 
Australia is one of the great overseas trading nations of the world - in fact, the twelfth biggest. Yet of all the great trading nations we carry the lowest proportion of our trade in ships of our own flag. This has many consequences, not the least of which is something like S700m a year in overseas exchange for freight. The world trading pattern is moving towards bilateral shipping. For instance, Australian-Japanese trade will be increasingly serviced by Japanese and Australian vessels with no cross-traders permitted. If Australia cannot provide enough shipping to take up its share, Japan will take up the slack. 
What would we have to do to increase the size of the Australian merchant shipping fleet? We already subsidise the construction of ships in Australia but only to match foreign ship building costs. We do not provide any of the other incentives which encourage foreign ship owners who carry the bulk of our present overseas trade. It is worth looking at what these incentives are. Most overseas countries encourage ship building by offering attractive loan finance. Generally, finance is available overseas at between  6i  per cent and 8 per cent over 8 years. This, together with a reasonable depreciation allowance, permits owners to write off their investment in a practical period. The present Australian depreciation period is 16 years for bulk carriers and tankers and 20 years for other vessels. But today no vessels are built for a life of 20 years. Cellular vessels are built for a life of 10 to 12 years by Japanese owners and 12 to 15 years by British owners. A similar financing system should operate for Australian owners. 
I have spoken several times in this House about the importance to industry of restoring the 20 per cent investment tax allowance. It would be particularly valuable in the shipbuilding industry, because ships are long term construction projects, and the tax allowance would provide a very valuable cash flow early in the life of the ship. One of the objections raised to an expansion of Australian shipping is the question of high labour costs. Labour costs are not nearly as important now as they used to be. It is true that there is some feather bedding. A 24,000 ton cellular vessel on European scales requires 28 men, compared with 35 men under Australian conditions. But, nevertheless, the capital cost of the ship and the other running costs are far more significant financially than the crew costs. 
Industrial turbulence is another cause of concern. So far the Australian National Line's overseas vessels have been relatively strike-free since they began operating. But there is a need for rationalisation among seagoing unions to reduce costs in shipbuilding, ship operation and industrial negotiations. Good industrial relations in the shipping field, as in so many of our other industrial activities, are critical to our future. We must also do something about shipping conferences. Our seaborne trade is almost wholly in the hand of crosstraders and other national shipping lines, and our exporters are sometimes held to ransom. Without a viable merchant fleet we are quite unable to influence rates of freight, ports of call, types of cargo carried or conference attitudes. 
The new Restrictive Trade Practices Act should give the Government powers similar to those vested in the United States Federal Maritime Commission, which controls conferences, approves freight rates and ensures that monopolies and cartels cannot operate to the detriment of American seaborne trade. We also need some degree of unity among shippers, perhaps through the Australian Shippers Council. I envisage a situation where we have open shipping conferences with rate agreements registered with the Government, Australian vessel participation in all conferences to check on costs, and the Australian Government acting in a supervisory capacity in a similar way to the United States Federal Maritime Commission. If we take these steps we will build up a fleet of merchant ships which will properly represent our status as a major maritime and trading nation and be to the great benefit of our exporters and our balance of payments. 
I addresss my question to the Minister for Education and Science. Can the Minister now say whether the Lady Gowrie child health centres are receiving the additional Government support which has been asked for? 
Preventive medicine is probably the most important aspect of community health care. The record of the Government in preventive medicine is outstanding. Australia's health standards are amongst the highest in the world, perhaps the highest. This has been the result of wise and consistent policy in the past. It is a policy which has the overwhelming support of those who are in the best position to know - the medical practitioners. However, I am disturbed about one aspect of preventive care. Smoking is one of the great health hazards in Australia today. It is worth looking at what was done 2 decades ago to combat a comparable scourge - tuberculosis. As a result of a sustained campaign costing $230m, tuberculosis deaths have dropped from nearly 3,000 in 1950 to less than 250 a year now. 
Compare this with our attitude to smoking. The deaths from just one smoking-related disease - lung cancer - are now higher than the tuberculosis deaths were when the anti-tuberculosis campaign began. Yet we are doing very little to prevent cigarette promotion, although cigarettes are a known health hazard, and it is not only lung cancer. It has been reliably estimated by the Chief Medical Officer of Health in Britain that approximately 10 per cent of all deaths in the community are due to smoking-associated diseases. The major ones are lung cancer, heart disease, bronchitis and emphysema. Other less frequent diseases which are associated with smoking are cancer of the lip, tongue, larynx and bladder, as well as certain diseases of the blood vessels. These findings in Britain are corroborated by parallel studies conducted by the United States Department of Health. 
There is no longer any serious doubt that smoking is a substantial health hazard. The question is what we should do about it. The difficulty is that tobacco is a drug of addiction or perhaps habituation - medical opinion differs whether it is addiction or habituation, but this is really a distinction without a difference. All hardened smokers know how difficult it is to give up smoking. I do not think that whatever we do we will have much effect on the hardened smokers. The community as a whole has been widely informed, through education programmes on the perils of smoking. Yet despite this, Australian consumption of tobacco per head of population is steadily rising. I think that education on the perils of smoking is valuable, but on its own it is far from sufficient to combat this serious health hazard. What we must aim to do is to prevent young people taking up smoking. 
We must look at cigarette promotion. The cigarette purveyors claim that promotion is only intended to switch established smokers from one brand to another, and has no effect on inducing young people to take up smoking. These claims are either dishonest or disingenuous and I am sure the cigarette manufacturers know them to be so. In fact, they have admitted it by arranging the so-called voluntary code on cigarette advertising on television. This code prohibits cigarette advertisements before 7.30 p.m. so as to prevent young people being exposed to cigarette promotion, but this voluntary code is an insult to the intelligence of the community. A recent survey shows that 37 per cent of the 13-year-olds are still watching television at 9.30 p.m. - 2 hours after the ban on cigarette advertisements is lifted. All that cigarette manufacturers have sacrificed by the voluntary code is the kindergarten market. 1 am sure we must, on health grounds, impose a complete ban on television advertising of cigarettes. But this alone will not be enough. There are many ways round such a ban. Increased newspaper advertising and road hoardings, and even on television where large advertisements placed at sporting events where the television cameras cannot fail to pick them up. I put it to the Minister that we must have a total ban on cigarette promotion, as is being done in Canada. 
In the past it has been thought that Commonwealth powers were limited to television and radio, but the concrete pipes decision by the High Court makes is possible that the Commonwealth could control all forms of promotion by cigarette corporations. If the Commonwealth has this power, surely it should use it. It has been argued that commercial television stations would, be crippled by the loss of cigarette advertising revenue. This has not been the experience in America, Canada and Britain, where such a ban has been imposed. But if this would be the effect in Australia, I urge the Minister to consider the proposal for lc levy on each packet of cigarettes to be used on anti-smoking promotion on television. This would give the television stations the same revenue as they get at present from cigarette commercials. 
It is not reasonable to expect cigarette companies voluntarily to do anything effective. The more Australians who become addicted to cigarette smoking, the greater the individual consumption, the better it is for the cigarette manufacturers. After all, they are in business to make profits. But the Government has an over-riding responsibility for community health. We have taken action to ban other addictive drugs in the interests of community health. If we are to refer credibility in these fields, and in the interests of community health, we must ban all promotion of cigarettes as contining a drug of addiction which is a known health hazard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. I preface it by pointing out that there has been some dispute, particularly by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, about the number of Russian warships in the Indian Ocean. In view of the importance of the subject, can the Minister make an estimate of their present strength? 
The important statement delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  covered a wide sweep of the nation's affairs, not only our defence and foreign policies but also international trade and monetary problems. 1 was particularly interested in his discussions in America on environment control. There is much that we can learn from America's successes and failures in this field. The agreement on the maintenance of a continued British naval presence in the Indian Ocean Ls very welcome because this is a strategic vacuum which Russia is hastening to fill. For understandable reasons - his complete ignorance of the subjects being the most obvious - the leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said nothing about currency or international trade. Insofar as he talked about anything, he seemed to be discussing defence. 1 would like, therefore, to discuss some of the defence issues raised by the Prime Ministers statement and the reply by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The defence of this country is of vital concern to all of us. In an ideal world we would not need defence forces and could devote the resources we now devote to defence to peaceful purposes. But we do not live in an ideal world, and Australia is situated in a particularly turbulent corner of this far from ideal world. The maintenance of adequate defence must be the first concern of any government. It is true that Australia's mainland is not faced with any immediate threat. This has been the result of wise Government policy in the past. Our neighbours to the north are independent and reasonably stable and surely it must be the first object of our foreign policy, and our defence policy which derives from our foreign policy, to keep them that way. 
But although Australia does not face any immediate threat, I am concerned at the attitude of members of the Opposition who seem to deduce that because there is no immediate obvious threat, therefore defence is of low priority. It is always dangerous, when looking a long way ahead, to postulate specific threats. Who in 1931 would have predicted that in 10 years time Australia would be at war with Germany, Italy and Japan? Certainly no-one in the Austraiian Labor Party. What we need, bearing in mind the long lead time of defence equipment and defence organisations, is to plan forces now which could meet the conceivable threats running into the 1980s and 1990s. What threats might we face then? The first and most serious is that of nuclear obliteration. If a global nuclear war broke out it would be the end of world civilisation, including Australia, whether Australia wished to be involved or not. 
The only sensible course for Australia is to do what it can to prevent such a war breaking out. This is the purpose of our co-operation with the United States with the North West Cape Naval Communication Station, Pine Gap or a possible Omega station. The Polaris submarines with which North West Cape is associated are essentially second strike weapons, designed to deter the launching of a surprise nuclear attack. Their existence, and Australia's contribution to them, thus reduce the likelihood of global nuclear war and therefore is clearly in Australia's interest. The Opposition would have us dismantle or emasculate these agreements with the United States; by doing so, it would increase the likelihood of global war, and thus increase the danger of Australia's nuclear obliteration. Such policies are the acts of thoroughly irresponsible people. 
The next possible threat we may face is that of interdiction of our overseas trade, the overwhelming proportion of which goes by sea. Australia is the twelfth biggest overseas trading nation of the world. We send as high a proportion of our gross national product overseas as does Great Britain, which has always been regarded as a country peculiarly dependent on overseas trade. Considered as a proportion of gross national product, we are nearly twice as dependent on overseas trade as is Japan. We need to develop over the next decade a greatly expanded Navy so that we can counter likely threats to the. safety of our overseas trade and our coastal shipping. The Labor Party's policy is that our strategic responsibility ends with our territorial waters, which would deny us the right to protect our vital overseas trade. Such a policy is the policy of thoroughly irresponsible people. 
The final possible threat that we mav face is that of invasion. While Indonesia is in strong and free hands we are not vulnerable to invasion. Therefore the maintenance of Indonesia's strength and independence must be a high priority of our economic aid, and our foreign and defence policies. To support this, we need to help Singapore and Malaysia to preserve and strengthen their independence. Our forces in that area, which are welcomed by the governments of Singapore and Malaysia, are designed to assist the stability of those countries. The policy of the Opposition would have us withdraw all our forces from the area. The Leader of the Opposition would, I think, like to withdraw our Army only, but he is of course not a free agent. The Opposition policy would have us retreat within our territorial boundaries and only take action beyond them if asked to do so by the Security Council of the United Nations, on which both Russia and Communist China have a veto. Is it conceivable that Russia and China would not veto action by Australia designed to keep a Communist threat away from our shores? This policy of the Labor Party - and I do not believe it is the true policy of many members of the Parliamentary Labor Party - is the policy of thoroughly irresponsible people. 
It. is, of course, dictated by an outside body not responsible to the electorate - the famous 36 faceless men - although I believe they have added 11 faces to this body, or perhaps 12 if we count the 2 faces of the Leader of the Opposition on this issue. A prominent member of the Labor Par'y front bench has recommended that we should withdraw from all military alliances, including the ANZUS alliance, and retreat into isolationism. The former Secretary of the Labor Party in Victoria - a member of the group which advised Australian troops in Vietnam to mutiny - has recommended that Australia cut back its defence expenditure. This would be the policy of thoroughly irresponsible people, because the dangers in our area are growing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! There is no point, of order. I warn the honourable member that irrelevant points of order can amount to an obstruction of the business of the House. 
We have had much discussion in this chamber on how the Russians are moving into the Indian Ocean. Much of the discussion has been irrelevant, for (he issue is not what number of Russian ships are there now, but how many are likely to be there in 10 years time and what is the object of their presence. Communist China too- 
I welcome this decision by the Government. When the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment was suspended last February I reluctantly accepted it as a temporary psychological weapon in the campaign against inflation. Whatever psychological value it had has long since been exhausted, and it is most timely that the allowance is now restored, for in the long run investment in plant and equipment is vital to our productivity and thereby to our standard of living and the control of inflation. Incidentally, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  when he was Treasurer was very shrewd - whether deliberately or not I do not know - in merely suspending the allowance if his aim was to force down expenditure on plant and equipment. The more usual course would have been to cancel rather than suspend the allowance, and suspension implied that the allowance would soon be restored. This caused manufacturing businesses to hold off ordering new plant and equipment, and according to the publication of the Bureau of Census and Statistics titled 'Capital Expenditure by Private Business in Australia' for the December quarter of 1971 - it was issued on 10th February - expenditure on manufacturing plant and equipment, other than mineral processing, remained static during 1971 despite rapidly rising prices. This was a dangerous situation which the present step by the Government should end. 
Why is investment in plant and equipment so important? Export trade is highly competitive, and if our manufactured exports are to grow, as they must, we must see that they are not operating at a disadvantage compared with their competitors. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  implied that this tax concession is an unusual one. It is worth noting what other countries do about comparable allowances. In Britain, for instance, 80 per cent - not 20 per cent as is the case in Australia - of investment in plant and equipment is tax deductible in the first year, and this rises to 100 per cent in special development areas. Ireland runs one of the most lavish incentive schemes in the world. 
Capital grants defray well over two-fifths of the total capital costs of new plants in special areas and one-third of total capital costs in the country as a whole, and there is a 15-year tax holiday on profits made from exports. As a result, in 10 years Ireland has - not surprisingly - multiplied its industrial exports 5 times. These 2 examples show how 2 export orientated countries tackled this problem. 1 believe that we must become similarly export orientated. 
Of course, internally our productivity depends on wise investment in plant and equipment, and many people - Professor Colin Clark, for example - have been suggesting that, by international standards, we have a relatively low investment in industrial equipment. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  produced the extraordinary argument that because some firms had surplus or unused capacity, therefore, they had no need for assistance in acquiring plant and equipment. That *s arrant nonsense. These firms are the onus most likely to need to replace obsolete and inefficient equipment so that they can again become competitive. Such investment .s financed principally from profits, and profits of companies as a proportion of net national product have fallen sharply in recent years, from 12.2 per cent in 1969-70 to 10.8 per cent in 1970-71. This is a disturbing fall, and its significance is heightened by a survey of a sample of Australian companies taken by PA Management Consultants, which showed that the median return on shareholders' funds fell from 9.3 per cent in 1966 to 8.9 per cent in 1969 and 8.3 per cent in 1970. 
The restored investment allowance will increase the availability of funds for investment in plant and equipment, particularly in the early stages, when the cash flow problem is sometimes acute. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports raised his hands in mock horror at the thought of the investment allowance going to firms with profits in excess of $2m. As usual he is confusing profits with profitability. As I pointed out earlier, the profitability of many of our companies is low by international standards, and I include Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and its steelmaking operations, referred to earlier by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn). 
An important point about the investment allowance is that it has long term planning implications for industry.  Major capital  investment may take 4 years or more to complete and the existence of the tax allowance will be an important planning factor. This allowance must not be turned on and off like a tap as a regulator of the economy, lt is most unsuitable for this purpose. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports in moving his amendment made it clear that he would like to use the investment allowance in the most unsuitable way that it is possible to imagine. He suggested that the present allowance is indiscriminate and leads to wasteful use of resources. I would much rather rely on business judgment than on the whim of bureaucrats, which is the Australian Labor Party's solution to every problem. 
The role of government is to see that there is adequate competition, either external or internal or both. This is- being done by the tariff review and the new restrictive trade practices legislation. If the products are economically questionable the weapon of the sales tax is always available. But if the Government controls these things, decisions about investments are much better left to the businesses themselves. It is in their interests to see that their investments are wise. If the products are being produced in Australia, it is in the interests of all Australians that they should be produced efficiently, whether the products are beer taps or motor cars. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Cunningham would like to use the investment allowance as a vehicle for democratic socialist planning. They and their bureaucrats would like to decide which industries would receive the investment allowance and at what rate, a process that would soon be extended to deciding which firms inside an industry would receive the allowance. One can visualise the situation of firms not knowing whether they would receive the allowance or not, waiting for months while they answered irrelevant, politically motivated questions from people who knew nothing of the industry. Any coherent industrial planning would become impossible. The Labor Party would create industrial chaos and call it planning, or perhaps democratic socialism. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in New Zealand during a recent visit to Singapore to the effect that if his Party came into power at the forthcoming general election in New Zealand it would retain its troops in Singapore even if the Labor Party came into power in Australia and withdrew its forces. Does the Minister believe that it would be possible to maintain the ANZUK arrangements after withdrawal of Australian forces? 
These tariff proposals are important to the economic life of the country. If there had been no tariff, Australia would still be largely a farm and a quarry. Tariffs have been the foundation of our secondary industry and are essential for the survival of large parts of it. Manufacturing industry is closely interrelated. Great industries cannot exist in isolation. Some of the essential associated industries may not themselves be economic, but they may be vital to a large export industry. By 1977 our manufactured exports will have to contribute approximately S2,000m a year out of a total export income in the vicinity of S7,000m. This means that manufactured exports must double in the next 5 years. If we are to achieve this, we must, among other things, control our tariffs wisely. We must increase the breadth as well as the depth of our secondary industry. 
Incidentally, tariffs are not decided by the Tariff Board, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  implied. The Tariff Board investigates and recommends and the Government and this House decide. Tariffs are a vital function of government. If tariffs are too low, great industries may be crippled or destroyed. If they are too high, they may damage competition. Competition, I would remind honourable members opposite, is a far more efficient form of prices control and hence control of one aspect of inflation, than the arbitrary fixing of prices by bureaucrats, a solution much favoured by honourable members opposite. This type of arbitrary fixing of prices, even if it were constitutionally possible - something about which many people, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  have very serious doubts - would be quite ineffective without quality control as well. The army of public servants necessary for this staggers the imagination. 
A further danger of a tariff which is too high is that it fragments the industry and produces a large number of inefficient production units instead of a small number of efficient units. Witness the motor industry mentioned by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Judicious tariffs will reduce the likelihood of fragmentation. The setting of these tariffs- 
It is very fragmented. There are far too many manufacturers in the industry for efficiency. Tariffs must preserve economic and efficient Australian industries and at the same time provide sufficient external competition for our industries, particularly in cases where there is inadequate internal competition. Meeting these twin objectives requires delicate judgment which can be reached only after a detailed study of all the implications, direct and indirect. If this House is to make wise judgments on these matters, we need more detailed information on the ramifications and changes in tariffs than is provided in the Tariff Board reports before us. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has promised, as part of the general review of tariffs, more detailed and systematic Tariff Board reports. I hope they will soon be forthcoming. What does the Opposition propose? Its members display some fairly primitive attitudes such as that expressed by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  Without too much paraphrasing, he said: 1 do not know what these tariffs are all about but I am all for them.' The honourable member for Lalor - I agree with many of the points he made - has gone on record as saying that the Australian Labor Party in office or out of office will support a policy which will protect inefficient and uneconomic industries in this country rather than have a shortage of employment opportunities. I do not know which Australian Labor Party the honourable member was speaking for when he said that. It is certainly not the same Party as the Leader of the Opposition is heading. I presume it was the left hand one of the six or seven parts of the ALP. As a doctrine, this is a perfect recipe for long term structural unemployment. But I suppose honourable members opposite feel a close and understandable affinity for inefficient and uneconomic organisations. 
Another interesting definition was presented by the honourable member for Lalor. The present Government policy is the protection of economic and efficient industries. The honourable member for Lalor has said that an industry is economic and efficient if it has the most modern equipment and has skilled labour. No mention is made of whether it is economically sensible for Australia to have such an industry because of the availability of raw materials, power, transport facilities or all the other things that determine whether an industry is economic. No mention is made of the productivity of the labour employed. Because these are truly the economic views of the honourable member for Lalor, not only is he not fit to be a Labor government Minister for Trade and Industry, but also it would seem unlikely that he could make a good fist of funning a roadside pie stall. He would probably put his well equipped pie stall beside a road which carried no traffic. 
The tariff problem is a serious one. I hope that the Minister for Trade and Industry will expedite a general review of the level of tariffs for this is an efficient weapon in the control of inflation. I support the proposed tariff changes: 
We are dealing tonight with 2 Bills - one covering capital grants for State schools, the other supplying increased assistance to nongovernment schools in meeting their rapidly rising running costs. The confusion in the Opposition between capital costs and recurrent costs is extraordinary. The confusion runs right through almost every speech made from the Opposition benches. But capital and recurrent expenditure, both in accountancy and in common sense, are very different. I will therefore treat them separately, and urge Opposition members to do likewise. It might lessen their obvious confusion. The $20m provided in the Bill before us covers an 18-month period to June 1973 and is designed to assist the expansion and acceleration of the present State capital programmes for the construction of new primary and secondary schools, and the improvement of present sub-standard ones. 
This new capital grant by the Commonwealth is in addition to the present capital grant programmes - for secondary school libraries, for science blocks, and for teachers colleges. The 2 secondary school capital grants - for libraries and for science blocks - are available for all secondary schools, State and independent alike. The grants are designed to bring all schools up to a high standard, and there is a needs criterion in that schools only receive a grant sufficient to bring their present facilities up to the laid down standard. Honourable members opposite have made much of grants going to schools such as Geelong Grammar, but omit to mention that Geelong Grammar has not received a library grant, because it already has a library sufficient for its present purpose. 
So for capital grants we do apply a needs standard. But the scope for direct Commonwealth intervention is limited, without setting up an immense and redundant bureaucracy. The libraries and science blocks in all secondary schools are clear needs, in both State and independent schools. But other capital deficiencies require close investigation, which is best carried out by authorities close to the problem. Constitutionally the State governments are responsible for both the State schools system and for the. independent schools in their States. The best way therefore in which the Commonweath can assist in eliminating deficiencies in all schools is to increase the general revenue grants to the States - as we have done - increase the loan allocations - as we have done - and where possible give additional grants for this purpose, such as the $20m we are considering in this Bill. This is a far more efficient and economic system of handling these local affairs than would be achieved by trying to run them from a swollen centralised bureaucracy in Canberra. 
But although a needs approach can be, and is being, used for capital projects, the running or recurrent costs are a very different problem. The second Bill we are considering today is one to raise the recurrent grant to the States for independent schools from $35 to $50 for each primary school pupil and from $50 to $68 for each secondary school pupil. The Opposition has moved an amendment to establish a schools commission. The confusion of thought in the Opposition on this subject is almost indescribable. Although the amendment was moved to a proposal for recur rent grants, the Opposition speakers supporting the amendment have spent most of their time talking about capital matters. What they seem to be advocating, in a confused sort of way, is grants on a basis of need. 
As I have pointed out, capital grants are already made on a needs basis. However, when one turns to recurrent grants, the question which must be asked is: What needs? Perhaps one could say that the schools where the parents have to pay the highest fees obviously have the greatest need, and therefore should receive the highest grants. This would mean that the more expensive private schools would receive most, which I am sure is not at all what the Opposition wants. Equally absurd is the opposite criterion - that the schools where the parents are asked' to contribute least should receive most Government support. This would mean that, if parents were prepared to pay more to improve the quality of teaching, they would as a consequence lose Government assistance. What an incentive to self help. There is another important practical difficulty in this approach. If one gave recurrent grants on the criteria suggested by some members opposite, it would mean that Catholic parochial schools would receive all the State aid and non-Catholic independent schools would receive nothing. I could imagine nothing more socially divisive than this. 
Lest it be thought that I am speaking purely theoretically of the dangers of a centralised schools commission, I should like to draw attention to a pilot scheme - the one in South Australia which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has described as a model. Well, let us look at this model. The present situation in South Australia is that all independent primary schools receive a per capita across the board payment of $10 a year, and all independent secondary schools receive an across the board payment of $20 a year. The neediest primary schools have been allocated special additional grants ranging from $24 in what is known as category A to $10 in category D. 
This means that the biggest per capita grant received by independent primary schools in South Australia is $34 a year. This grant is received by only 22 schools. 
In comparison, the New South Wales Government provides per capita grants to all independent primary schools of $50 a year. Victoria provides $40 a year and Queensland provides $45 a year. All these primary schools receive more than the maximum paid by South Australia. Of course, the great majority of independent schools in South Australia are very much worse off than that. The present Government of South Australia is a Labor Government. 
It is perhaps not surprising that this problem has caused the Opposition to speak with discordant voices. Three short statements by Opposition members in a little over a week show clearly that the Opposition really has no policy on whether or not a schools commission should be established and, if it is, what methods it will adopt to provide Government support for independent schools. The first of these statement is the one by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  who on 1st December last year quoted the provision in the Australian Labor Party's platform on the establishment of an Australian schools commission, and explained That means government schools first'. The following day the Leader of the Opposition in this House  (Mr Whitlam)  attacked the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for alleging that this schools commission would give assistance to government schools before it gave any to non-government schools. This would seem to me to be exactly the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy.  But according to the Leader of the Opposition himself, that is a wrong principle because, as he said: 
It may be that there are some non-government schools which fall further short on acceptable standards and have larger class sizes than government schools. 
In other words, it is not a case of 'that means government schools first' as  Senator Murphy  put it, but rather a case of 'perhaps non-government schools will come first but perhaps they will not'. The Opposition should make up its mind. 
Finally, confusion was made even worse by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who on 9th December abandoned the whole concept of the schools commission and advocated instead the establishment of separate authorities in each State, one for the Catholic schools and one for the other independent schools. Clearly such a proposal is quite inconsistent with the proposal for an Australian schools commission which, as it was explained by the Leader of the Opposition, is to concern itself with all schools throughout the nation. At least the honourable member for Fremantle recognises the impossibility of the role for which his Leader casts the schools commission. It really is an extradordinary situation when the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate makes a statement on Labor's education policy and is immediately contradicted by the Leader of the Opposition in this House, who is in turn contradicted by his own spokesman on education. It is an extraordinary muddle. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, everyone who voluntarily undertakes to educate his children outside the State system is saving the community nearly $600 a year for a secondary student or over $300 a year for a primary student. All are saving the country the same amount, and I believe the only fair and practicable scheme is to give them all the same assistance from the state; after all, it is only a small portion of what they have saved the state. There is of course another way in which parents receive assistance with school expenses, in either state or independent schools, and that is through income tax deductions. As I have stated several times in this House, I have my reservations about the desirability of the present system of tax deductions for school fees, but this is a separate matter which I shall raise again with the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  as opportunity offers. 
Running through the arguments advanced by Opposition speakers has been an unpleasant undertone indicating that they would really like to see the independent school system collapse. This seems to stem partly from a dislike of schools run by religious organisations, and partly from a dislike of allowing people to spend their own resources on the education of their children. On this side of the House we reject both these propositions. There is everything to be said for diversity in education and indeed I should like to see the independent schools more experimental than they are. Similarly I should like to see the State education schemes more decentralised - the direct opposite to the policy of the Labor Party, which would like to see everything concentrated in a bureaucracy in Canberra. The Labor policy is a very old-fashioned approach, which is contrary to all the trends of modern education. 
With regard to religious schools, I feel parents have the right to influence the environment in which their children are educated, provided they are prepared to make some personal sacrifice to obtain it. Honourable members opposite seem to think that all parents who send their children to independent schools are rich. In fact, many such parents are not rich and make great sacrifices in order to provide their children with the education they think best. The Labor Party would like to penalise these people who are voluntarily relieving the community of a substantial burden. Could social injustice go deeper? And if the Labor Party succeeded in its unadmitted aim of dismantling the independent school system it would find that the cost of education to the public purse would rise sharply, at the expense of all taxpayers, rich and poor alike. 
Some Opposition speakers have been trying to give the impression that a Labo Government would spend more on education. This is a false picture. The Labor Party has promised to maintain defence expenditure at its present proportion of gross national product to increase vastly expenditure on almost every other government activity, and its front bench spokesmen are also advocating reduced taxation. This can only mean that fewer national resources would be available for education under a Labor Government than under the present Government. Expenditure on education in Australia has risen from a little below 3 per cent of the gross national product in 1963-64 to probably over 44 per cent this year. I hope it will continue to rise, for education is vital to the future of our society. But no matter what the organisation or the expenditure, no education system will ever be perfect. Ours certainly is not perfect, but it has many good features. It is worth looking at some international comparisons, from the UNESCO statistical Yearbook. Our percentage of 16 year olds at school  -  43 per cent is not as high as in Canada, 73 per cent, or in the 
United States where it is well over 90 per cent. But it is higher than in Sweden, theoretically a socialist paradise - ours is 43 per cent to Sweden's 34 per cent - and much higher than Britain's. Turning to tertiary education, a good comparison is the number of tertiary graduates per year per 100,000 inhabitants. Of the 5 countries I mention the United States of America is, not surprisingly, easily first, but is followed in order by Australia, Canada and England, with Sweden last of ail. As I said, our education system is not perfect, but we must not fall into the old Australian trap of excessive knocking. 
Although I believe the continued viability of the independent schools is important, on social, economic and educational grounds, we must never lose sight of the fact that the State school systems are the core of our education system, for they educate three-quarters of our students. We must plan our Federal expenditure wisely so that we can assist the State systems. One of the wisest investments we can make is the support of the independent schools so that they will remain viable. For with a relatively small outlay - less than 0.3 per cent of the total Federal Budget goes in recurrent grants to independent schools - we help to make it possible for parents to relieve the States of the cost of educating one-quarter of the school population. I cannot imagine a better investment or a wiser use of public funds. 1 wish that the rigid rules of the. Labor caucus could be relaxed so that those Opposition members who are genuinely interested in the improvement of educational standards - and there are quite a number - could cross the floor and vote with the Government against this very ill-conceived amendment. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kirwan)  adjourned. 
Is the Treasurer aware that in his Budget Speech yesterday the British Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Barber,  announced the abolition of the voluntary programme on British investment in Australia? Would the Treasurer agree that this is a desirable change from Australia's point of view? What effect does he consider it will have on the level of British investment in Australia? 
I welcome the statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  Informed debate on this vital subject is of the utmost importance to our community. It would be highly desirable that there should be a bi-partisan national approach but the decisions of the Australian Labor Party - not the decisions of many of the honourable members opposite but the decision of the outside body which controls and directs them - have made such a bi-partisan policy impossible, a result I deplore. The great problem with defence planning is the time scale.  Major new  equipment ordered now is not likely to be in service before the late 1970s and will probably remain in service until about the year 2000. Further, with long service personnel, any major expansion or change in balance of the Services will take many years. It is therefore essential to look at defence problems in a long perspective. 
We face 3 potential threats - disruption of our overseas trade, nuclear obliteration and, in the longer term, invasion. I should like to deal with each of these in turn. There is, of course, no immediate threat of invasion. Assessments have been made that no such threat is likely for 10 years. I do not disagree wilh this assessment, though it is worth remembering that many dangers are difficult to foresee. Few people, for instance, in 1931 would have foreseen that in 10 years time Australia would be at war with Germany, Italy and Japan. But, just because there is no immediate threat, that is not a reason for doing nothing. It is the duty of the Government - any government - to do what it can to keep any threat far from our shores. Indonesia is the key to this. While Indonesia is stable, independent and friendly, no conceivable invasion threat to Australia can possibly arise. It must be the first aim cf our defence policy, our foreign policy and our overseas aid policy to see that Indonesia remains independent and friendly. We have done much to improve relations wilh Indonesia in the years since the fall of Sukarno. The recent gift of Sabre aircraft is a good example of this process. I believe that we should build on this and that we should try to arrange joint defence exercises, investigate joint logistic problems and encourage the training of Indonesians in Australia, particularly officer cadets. Our future is inextricably involved with that of Indonesia, and we must not wait until danger is imminent before ensuring that we can co-operate effectively. 
The future of Indonesia is in turn closely bound up with events in the countries to its north - the Philippines. Malaysia and Singapore. It is clearly in Indonesia's interest - and in ours - that these countries remain stable and independent. In theory we should be able to rely on the United Nations to ensure this stability and freedom from external attack. In practice, the United Nations has proved a broken reed in this regard, largely because of the veto power of Russia and now China. Faced with this problem, the threatened countries turned to collective security, as is permitted under the United Nations Charter. Collective security not only confers benefits; it also imposes commitments. It depends on the will of the countries concerned to intervene, even though not immediately threatened themselves. One has only to look at the career of Hitler to see the danger. Successively he took over the Rhineland, Austria and Czechoslovakia. Collective security could easily have stopped him early in bis career, but countries which did not feel themselves directly threatened refused to intervene, and the consequence was a world war in which tens of millions died. 
Our interest in the stability of South East Asia has led us to collective defence agreements - SEATO and the Five-Power 
Agreement. These agreements are welcomed by the South East Asian countries concerned. They do involve us in potential commitments and we must be sure that we are capable of meeting these commitments. I do not believe that anyone who seriously studied the problem could conclude that we could make an effective contribution with an army with a total strength of less than 40,000. The difficulty is that we have never, in peacetime or cold war, been able to recruit a volunteer army in excess of about 28,000. The only way, in the short term, that the gap can be filled is by the use of national service. I do not like selective national service. I should prefer to have all our Regular Army provided by volunteers. I hope that the many improvements in pay and conditions suggested by the Kerr Committee and other committees, such as the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Legislation, will result in the necessary number of volunteers coming forward. But, unless and until enough volunteers are available, any government would be failing in its duty if it did not have the courage to use national service to keep the Army up to the minimum essential strength. 
What does the Opposition offer? To withdraw our Army from Malaysia and Singapore, despite the firm conviction of those countries that the presence of these troops has a stabilising effect on the area; to eliminate national service, despite the fact that this would cripple the effectiveness of our Army; to pour scorn on the SEATO Treaty, despite the fact that Thailand and the Philippines regard it as a valuable deterrent to external aggression; to emasculate the ANZUS Treaty-the ultimate guarantee of our security - by converting it from a military treaty to an economic development agreement; and, finally, the claim that Australia's strategic frontiers are her natural boundaries. Such a principle is strategically absurd, although, as I have pointed out before, it would probably have received the sincere approbation of King Ethelred the Unready. All this is what the Opposition proposes. I have considerable respect for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  and I am sure that he does not believe a word of the nonsense he is forced to put forward. But he does not control his own policy; nor does any member of the Australian Labor Party in this House control the defence policy of that Party. 
The second threat we have to consider is that to our overseas trade. This is vital to our economic survival. A new factor has been the rapid increase in Russian sea power, and their presence since 1967 in the Indian Ocean. I have pointed out to the House before that I believe that the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean is, at the moment, defensive and aimed, rather forlornly, at American missile firing submarines operating in the Arabian Sea. I do not believe that Russia will be able to maintain an effective force in the Indian Ocean unless either the Suez Canal is reopened or Russia is able to obtain a substantial base on the Indian Ocean littoral. But, although Russia's Indian Ocean deployment seems at present defensive, once her forces were established there they would inevitably be used for other purposes. I do not believe that they would be used to interdict seaborne trade, for such a high risk policy would have few benefits for Russia. But I do believe that they would be used to stir up turbulence round the Indian Ocean littoral, including South East Asia and Indonesia. 
From our strategic point of view, the longer the Suez Canal stays closed the better. I think we should go further. With the change to the Poseidon missile, the Indian Ocean will become less essential for American missile firing submarines, and the future 6,000-mile range ULMS will decrease this still further. It may already be that the Indian Ocean is only of marginal importance to United States missile firing submarines. I suggest that we should urge America to consider an agreement by which both powers would keep clear of the Indian Ocean. The normal difficulty with the Russians over supervision of such a treaty would not arise because any Russian ships in the area would be visible and obvious. I believe that such a treaty, if it could be negotiated, would be a considerable benefit to the area, and to Australia in particular. But, whether there are Russians in the Indian Ocean or not, our Navy needs a considerable increase in strength so that it can effectively protect our vital trade. Ships take a long time to build. We have to order more destroyers as soon as possible, and we need to make an early decision on how we are to deploy air power at sea after the end of the life of the 'Melbourne'. 
What is the Labor policy on this? Labor says that Australia's strategic boundaries are our territorial limits. What an extraordinary concept of the role of sea and air power. Labor would presumbly use the Navy as a cordon inside territorial waters, around our coast - a system of defence, as Napolean once said, that is effectively only against smugglers. I am sure that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition must be embarrassed and ashamed at some of the extraordinary strategic theories he is forced to expound. 
The final threat of which we must be aware is that of obliteration in a world nuclear war. Such a war would be the end of civiliation, including our own, whether we were directly involved or not. It is clearly in our interest to prevent such a war. This is the justification for the facilities we have agreed with the Americans to set up at Pine Gap and North West Cape. These are purely defensive, designed to deter the outbreak of a nuclear war. The communications station at North West Cape, for instance, is designed to communicate with submerged missile firing submarines. These submarines, because of their mobility and undetectability, are second strike weapons, designed to be able to reply after a surprise nuclear attack has been launched on America. Their existence and their effectiveness are thus vital components of the deterrent to a global nuclear war. 
What does the Opposition propose? It puts forward the policy that Australia's strategic boundaries are our natural frontiers - as if intercontinental ballistic missiles recognised territorial waters! The Opposition would dismantle the American deterrent bases. The Labor Platform Constitution and Rules as approved at the 1971 Conference stated: 
Labor is opposed to the existence of .foreign owned, controlled or operated bases in Australian territory . . . 
The Opposition would destroy this deterrent to nuclear war, regardless of the colossal damage to. Australia's interests. This debate has been valuable for bringing the vital subject of defence before this 
House. It has revealed substantial differences between the policies of the Government and the Opposition, differences which should be revealed because they cast much doubt on the strategic wisdom of the Labor Party and its credibility as an alternative government. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has work on the Melbourne West Gate Bridge been help up by an inter-union demarcation dispute? What has been the effect of this dispute? 
Last week in this House the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  denied, that he wanted a communist victory in Vietnam. Last Sunday this cover was blown by his notorious friends in the Victorian State Council of the Australian Labor Party who called for a North Vietnamese victory. I do not believe that the honourable member for Lalor even with his one-eyed approach, thinks that the North Vietnamese are not communists, as some well-meaning people used to think that Mao was just an agrarian reformer. The North : Vietnamese are openly communists and a call for a North Vietnamese victory is a call for a communist victory. 
Of course the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  denies that this statement by the Victorian State Council of the Australian Labor Party represents Labor policy. He seems to have an odd idea that he has had some influence on Labor policy, but the dominant left wing of the Labor Party will soon whip him into line as it did over the Harradine affair, as it did over the downgrading of the ANZUS Treaty, as it did over industrial sanctions and as it did over national service when he called on national servicemen who were posted to Vietnam to mutiny. It will whip him into line as it did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  when he went to Vietnam and reported truly that' it was an externally supported invasion, a statement which he has since had to retract. ' 
What the dominant left wing of the Labor Party clearly wants is a communist victory in South East Asia, and it wants to destroy the American alliance. Of course South Vietnam could have peace at any time - by surrendering, as the Leader of the Opposition would have South Vietnam do. Britain could have had peace in 1940 by surrendering to Hitler. That would have saved many lives in the short term, but it would have cost the world dearly in the long term. A country has a right to self defence. It is worth remembering that no country which has ever been firmly under communist rule has emerged from that communist rate into freedom, and the 800,000 refugees from North Vietnam who fled to South Vietnam rather than suffer under communist rule are a clear indication of this. As was pointed out last week by the honourable member for Lalor, they are naturally in the forefront of the fight to prevent South Vietnam being similarly taken over. The honourable member for Lalor made a sneering reference to the' statement that South Vietnam was essentially the creation of the United States. Well, of course it was. So was modern Western Europe essentially the creation of the United States after the War. Through the Marshal] Plan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, America, very generously, restored Western Europe to its present level of prosperity. This is something that we must never forget. 
A lot of talk has been carried on by the Opposition suggesting that Vietnam is really one country, not 2 countries - North Vietnam and South Vietnam. In the postwar period difficulties over this situation of a divided country have occurred several times. It occurred in Korea. Would honourable members opposite suggest that when North Korea, supported by Russian arms, invaded South Korea we should not have gone to the assistance of the South Koreans as called for by the United Nations? There was no legal dividing line dividing Korea into 2 countries. Nevertheless, South Korea had the right of independence and freedom from Communism and we were right to go to her assistance and help her to remain free. 
The logic of what the Opposition has been saying would cause an extraordinary situation in Europe. Germany is divided into 2 countries - East Germany and West Germany - split on the old occupation line of the Russian and Western forces. There is no official boundary between those 2 countries. If what the honourable member for Lalor contended is good enough in Vietnam, it should be good enough in Europe. We could see the East Germans supported by the arms and might of the Russians invading West Germany, but if we supported West Germany, if NATO supported West Germany and if America supported West Germany against this invasion it would no doubt be described by the honourable member for Lalor as an invasion of Germany by America and he would contend that Germany should be left to sort out its own destiny. What hogwash! 
Anyone would admit that South Vietnam is not a perfect democracy. It has had a very difficult time since its creation. In the first few years after 1954 it showed signs of developing into a prosperous country. This was. before the Communist realised that they were not going to be. able to take it over by democratic means and they resorted to assassination, subversion and destruction. South Vietnam has had a very difficult time in the last 13 or 14 years, but it is to its credit that it has been able to carry out elections for presidents and elections for its Assembly, elections of a kind which Britain, a stable and long-established democracy, did not feel able to conduct during the 1940-45 War when Britain was under much less stress than Vietnam is now. If we can keep South Vietnam from falling under Communist domination there is a chance - a good chance - that it will emerge into a free and stable democracy. But if, on the other hand, it falls under Communist rule that hope will be gone. 
If North Vietnam truly wanted peace the solution would be simple. It would withdraw its forces from South Vietnam, from Laos and from Cambodia. It would cease its rocket attacks, assassinations, ambushing and murdering in those countries. Then the bombing would stop and South Vietnam would have a chance to work out its own destiny in peace. If honourable members opposite truly want peace in South East Asia, this is the course they should be urging. Instead, they cheer on the Communists. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did the Goverment in any way attempt to influence the Public Service Board in its recent wages decision? 
We have just listened to a long diatribe from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster). 
1 make it quite clear in response to the interjection that I compose my own speeches. From the way the honourable member for Sturt delivers his speeches it seems that they must be composed by nobody. I wish to turn to the Act to which the honourable member made only cursory reference. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act is one of Australia's great contributions to public institutions. It is certainly not perfect. No system of industrial relations yet devised by man is perfect but ours might well be described in the words used by  Sir Winston  Churchill when he spoke about democracy and said that it was the worst system imaginable, except for all the alternatives. 
What do we gain from having our compulsory system of conciliation and arbitration? It provides a means of settling disputes fairly and without coercion, lt protects the weaker unions from being disadvantaged by the activities of ruthless, stronger unions. It provides a means of establishing a fair minimum wage and a rudimentary incomes policy. The activities of some unions in recent years, and the attitude of the Australian Labor Party, are tending to undermine the Australian system. Quite clearly some elements in the Labor Party - large and influential elements - would like to destroy the present institution and substitute the law of the jungle. It is on a par with their desire to destroy many of the other institutions in our community. It is clear that our system of conciliation and arbitration is under threat as it has rarely been before. What we must do - what we are now doing - is to examine it carefully, and repair any weaknesses. And we must follow on with supplementary actions in the areas which, for economic or constitutional reasons, are beyond the scope of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
This Bill before us achieves the first of these aims. It was explained by the Minister in a long and masterly statement, and there is no point in merely reiterating his arguments. There are, however, some points on which I should like to comment. The first is the opening up of the presidential ranks to people other than lawyers. 1 hope the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will forgive me for saying this. This decision has been very widely acclaimed. As a people, we have on extraordinary habit of using lawyers for many roles for which they may well be unsuited by background and training, perhaps because our earliest ancestors had a particularly close acquaintance with the law. The national wage case, in particular, needs consideration by people of many disciplines other than the law, and it is very heartening that such people may now be appointed. It is to be hoped that their appointment will be followed by a further improvement in the procedure of hearings, particularly in the method of taking evidence. 
Another important change is the separation of conciliation and arbitration functions. I hope this will lead to more conciliation hearings on the shop floor, where many disputes can be settled. Once they get to the stage of hearings in chamber, they tend to become institutionalised. Much more important though is the requirement for the conciliation commissioners to take into account the public interest in agreements and consent awards. I welcome this in principle, because many disputes affect many people other than the actual parties to the dispute and those who have been given leave to intervene. My doubts lie in whether the conciliation commissioner will be able to discharge this function. He will not hear any evidence on the public interest, nor will he be permitted - for legal reasons - to receive any giudelines from the Arbitration Commission. 
Of course, if he decides unwisely, there is the mechanism of an appeal to the Full Bench, where the Commonwealth has the right to give evidence. But the Commonwealth cannot initiate such an appeal; it has to rely on one of the parties to the dispute, or one of the parties affected, to appeal. I do not want to be misunderstood. I think it is very important that the public interest should be taken into account at all levels of the conciliation and arbitration process, and the earlier it can be taken into account the better, for appeals always cause delays and bitterness. I think the provisions in the present Bill are the best that can be achieved within the constitutional and legal framework in which we must operate. I hope they work. 
The final point in the Bill to which 1 should like to draw attention is the provision for secret ballots. I think we must beware of expecting this provision to make a radical change in the industrial scene, as some people in the community seems to believe. This belief is based on the proposition that union leaders, when they call strikes, do not have the support of their union members. I do not believe this proposition to be generally true, nor I think, do most employers. There has been a provision in the Act for secret ballots for many years, but it has been used only once since 1928. The present Bill removes some of the restrictions on the use of the secret ballot, extending it to bans and limitations on work, and I expect we will see secret ballots used more frequently in the future. But one must always remember that if a union, by a secret ballot, votes for a strike, the settlement of that strike will be made more difficult, because presumably there will have to be another ballot before the settlement can be approved. For this reason, I expect the new power to be used sparingly, but it will obviously be very valuable in certain circumstances. This I am sure is the view of the Government. It does not have the exaggerated expectations which were attributed to it by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
There are many other provisions in the Bill, which were brought out with great clarity by the Minister. The Bill is moderate and sensible, and should significantly improve our conciliation and arbitration machinery. But this alone is not enough. 
There are many industrial matters which are beyond the effective scope of the Act. Demarcation disputes between unions are particularly difficult to solve, and we have many such disputes because of the pattern of a multiplicity of unions which we have inherited from Britain. We have more than 300 unions as compared with 19 in West Germany and 22 in Sweden. Demarcation disputes can be reduced by judicious amalgamations, and the present Bill makes sensible rules for such amalgamations, namely, secret court controlled ballots; circulation of the cases for and against amalgamation; at least half of the eligible members must vote; and, at least half of those voting must be in favour of the amalgamation. 
These are sensible and fair rules which should result in a continuation of mergers between willing unions. Nevertheless there will still be plenty of scope for demarcation disputes in the foreseeable future. Here is where the Australian Council of Trade Unions should play a role.  I  wish that the ACTU, which is very free with gratuitous advice to all and sundry on how to run the nation, would show a little more concern and rather more efficiency in solving the relatively minor disputes between its constituent members. Although the disputes are minor the consequences to the community may be great - Witness the West Gate bridge or the trouble over the construction of Lysaght's 
We must never forget the limitation of power of the Commonwealth in industrial relations. By the Constitution, the Federal power in this field is primarily limited to conciliation and arbitration in respect of interstate industrial disputes. If a deal is negotiated by management and unions outside the system, the Arbitration Commission has no power to intervene unless an application is made to have the agreement certified as an award. Perhaps the most blatant of these deals was that made recently on the waterfront, where the employers were confident - justifiably so I am afraid - that they could pass the costs on to the community. 
The business of passing the costs on has serious implications for the arbitration system. If employees are to accept that thenwages are to be subject to the public inter est they need to be satisfied that prices are subject to comparable criteria. Of course, some are quite unreasonable in this. They seem to feel that their wages should go up by an amount far in excess of productivity gains, yet prices should somehow remain static. To show the absurdity of this, one has only to point to organisations such as the Post Office and local councils which are labour intensive but non profit making, and whose charges have unavoidably been going up very fast. Nevertheless we must recognise that there is in the community, a strong feeling for some form of price control. Of course, the Federal Government could not enforce price control, as it did in the Second World War under war emergency powers. In any case, even if we had the power it would be most unlikely to be effective, quite apart from the enormous bureaucracy needed to administer price and quality control. There is a very interesting article in the 'Economist' of 29th April, comparing experiences in countries with and without price control - and many countries have tried price control including New Zealand, USA, France, Holland, Belgium, Denmark and Norway. The conclusion of the 'Economist' was that, as a general rule, the more urgent the need to control inflation the less successful price controls seemed to be. The occasions when they seem to work - as in Belgium in 1970 - are often occasions when they were not needed anyway. The 'Economist' went on to point out that even if price controls were effective, this may be a great disadvantage if the result is to cause so large a cut in profit margins that there is then an investment recession, or, I add, investment maldistribution. 
Another solution, urged by some, is for a prices justification tribunal. In my opinion such a tribunal in the Australian economic and political climate would either be a toothless tiger, unable to do anything about those who defied its conclusions, or else, if it had powers, it would become a price fixing body with all the disadvantages which I have already described. I am sure the best answer to the problem is effective competition. If there is competition, profit margins are kept reasonable and efficiency is encouraged. I hope the new - and I trust effective) - legislation on restrictive trade practices will soon be available for study and early implementation, for it will be an important aid both in the control of inflation and to the credibility of the wage fixing powers of the arbitration system. 
I have one suggestion here. When competing employers reach an agreement with unions on wages outside the arbitration system, such a wage agreement is frequently against the public interest. If there is no competition from imports the competing employers can pass the cost on to the community, for all will be paying the same increase in labour cost. I would urge the Minister to make an approach to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to see whether the new Trade Practices Act could ban wages and other labour agreements reached by competitors outside the arbitration machinery, for such agreements are clearly, in my view, restrictive trade practices. I know that this is a revolutionary suggestion, but I nevertheless urge it on the Minister. If it is successful, it could have a great effect on our wage fixing processes. Where there is no internal competition the necessary competition can be provided by imports, controlled through tariffs. In the Budget debate last year I urged speedier action on tariff review and particularly I urged the cancellation of unused tariffs and the bringing down of all tariffs to the British preferential level in all cases where British imports were competitive. I am somewhat relieved at the recent decision by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  If we can achieve true competition through tariff review and a really effective Trade Practices Act we will have achieved more than could ever be done by price control. 
What does the Labor Party offer on industrial relations? Labor Party policy can be described as 100 per cent Marxist - half Karl and half Groucho. In foreign policy, Karl Marx predominates. In industrial relations it seems to be Groucho Marx. The shadow Minister for Labour and National Service, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, led the Groucho Marx performance. He seems to envisage a society where, as he might have put it, the lowest paid worker in the land receives more than the average national wage. He spent a great deal of his very long speech emphasising the importance of shop stewards - presumably his bow to the left wing of his Party. Shop stewards are cer tainly growing in significance, but whether this trend is desirable is another matter. The shop steward system has been imported from Britain, where it has grown up as part of the machinery of collective bargaining - the 'I'm all right, Jack' approach. It is being encouraged here by people who would like to destroy our concilation and arbitration system. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh also made some rather tasteless remarks on the salaries of conciliation commissioners. It is worth reminding the House that when the Statutory Offices Bill, which provided for salary increases for conciliation commissioners, was debated by this House last December, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who led for the Opposition said that the Opposition supported and would vote for the Bill. So much for his present disavowal. The honourable member for Hindmarsh and others, such as the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  made much of the $2 increase in the national wage, claiming it was the only increase in 16 months. They conveniently forgot, as the Arbitration Commission fortunately did not, that a very large proportion of the work force received the 6 per cent flow on from the metal trades award during the course of the year. 
But even more important than what has been said by the Opposition is what it has not said. The honourable member for Hindmarsh did say that he believed that industrial agreements should be honoured, but he made no mention of what he would do if the agreements were not honoured. He made no mention of the fiasco of his own campaign last year, the repudiation by his own Caucus of his proposal for fines of $20 a day for striking unionists, and his claim that the Caucus decision was in breach of ALP policy. The truth is,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that the Opposition is so divided over industrial issues that it does not even dare to discuss most of them in public or I understand, in Caucus. The speeches from the Opposition benches, and particularly that of the honourable member for Sturt have been full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. 
The present Bill is a sound and sensible approach to conciliation and arbitration. If we combine it with appropriate action on restrictive trade practices and tariffs, it will make a significant contribution to industrial peace and economic development. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (3.38&gt;- The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  somewhat confused me when he was talking about Karl Marx and the Australian Labor Party and price fixing in Sweden and some of those far away countries. I must admit that I do not have a great knowledge of those matters. I recall the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  reminding us of the fact that our conciliation and arbitration system is undergoing severe strain and that this Bill contains the most significant amendments to the Act since 1947. The truth of these 2 statements could nol be denied. But there are many conflicting opinions as to why these amendments are necessary and what is causing the. severe strain to our Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Minister, as spokesman for the Liberal-Country Party Government, and echoing the cries of the big business people and foreign investors, leaves no doubt where he intends to place the blame. In the first paragraph of his second reading speech he mentioned industrial unrest and serious wage induced inflation. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  when entering this debate, was quick to indicate that he supported this line of attack on the trade unions. Both the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Prime Minister would have served the interest of the average Australian to a much greater extent if, instead of hiding behind industrial turmoil, which in most cases has been created by this Government, they had made in this Bill a genuine attempt to remove the cause of industrial strife and taken steps to build confidence back into our conciliation and arbitration system. But instead of that all they have done is to load it more and more against the worker. 
The average Australian is sick and tired of the Government blaming the trade union movement for the critical situation in which the Australian economy is placed and not mentioning the unjustified price rises and price induced inflation or pricepush inflation. If the Minister is really interested in and is trying to protect the welfare of the whole community he should have taken steps to initiate action to raise productivity in individual industrial undertakings which, of course, would be the main responsibility of managements. One of the greatest inhibiting factors in the. way of management increasing productivity is the employees' mistrust and suspicion of managements' real intention. Unfortunately, the worker has been the victim for so-called efficiency so many times that he has every reason to be suspicious. 
If the Government is sincere when talking about better industrial relations and its concern for the public generally, it should oppose any action that works in the opposite direction but this is not so. Let us take the example at Broken Hill at present, where 650 mine workers have received notice of termination of their employment because the company claims the ore body is depleted, but it refuses to allow the employees' representatives to take part in a Government sponsored investigation of what ore resources remain. How can any system work in the interest of better industrial relations if it allows this type of thing to happen, with 650 employees being thrown on the scrap heap. If we are going to up grade our system of industrial relations we should make provision for greater dialogue between employer and employee. The employee is entitled to know all the facts and he should be assisted by the arbitration system to obtain them. 
There are many areas where increased productvity is vitally necessary for the welfare of the employee and employer, as well as the public generally. In most cases if the employee fully understands the situation he will play his part, but in many cases the fault lies with managements' lines of communication. Often propositions that would be an all round benefit are not accepted because management never took the trouble to see that the employees were properly informed. 
Management of many establishments still adopt the system of putting a notice on a notice board and explaining the details to a shop steward, and they expect him to convince the rest of the employees. This is not a shop steward's function, and it is ridiculous for management to think that it can establish a line of communication by this process. Anyone who has had anything to do with conciliation and arbitration will agree that the Act does require amending, and these are some of the things we should be looking at, but instead of this the Minister has indicated that the real purpose of the Bill is to place more restrictions on trade unionists and this will only make the system more and more one sided. 
The trade unions have pressed continually for the deletion of the penal provisions which discriminate against the worker, and are designed to shackle the workers' attempt to achieve reasonable living standards by obtaining a better price for the commodity they have to sell - their labour. On the other hand, big businesses, often in consultation with each other, determine the price at which they sell the commodities they produce, with no restraint whatsoever from the Government. This is the double standard that is the cause of our rising prices and industrial turmoil. 
The Minister has indicated in the Bill that he endorses this double standard by informing the House that in future all fines against the unions will be collected, and as a means to achieving this end all union organisations will be asked to notify the Commission where their finance is banked. It is well known that employers have been pressing for the retention of the penalties and a more speedy method of imposing and collecting the fines. It seems they have been successful in the achievement of these aims. However no mention is made of any restrictions on the methods they have for increasing their own remuneration. It is easy to understand why our conciliation and arbitration system is under severe strain and the practice of settling major national disputes outside the arbitration system has continued to grow. 
It is obvious also that the Minister has given little attention to the cause of this unhappy state. Instead, he attempts to force the trade union movement to accept a worsening of its industrial conditions by placing more penalties on union activities. The proposal to separate the conciliation and arbitration functions and place greater emphasis on conciliation would meet with general public approval if it were a genuine effort to have conciliation play a bigger part. But, here again, the main purpose seems to be to mislead the people. To me it is an empty concession to public dissatisfaction with our arbitration system. A close examination of the proposal reveals that rather than a liberalisation of the conciliation process a tightening has occurred which will result in a reduction of its usefulness in settling disputes. 
At first glance it appears that increased authority has been given to conciliators who now will be promoted to commissioner status. They will have the power to make awards or orders arising from conciliation. No doubt this is intended to entice unions and employers into making more use of this feature of the Act. By following relatively simple procedures agreements, with the power of awards, will be made and registered. But the real intention could be to reduce the area of over-award payments or wage drift agreements by bringing them under the influence of the Commission and obtaining the long range objective of making wage standards both maximum and minimum. 
The proposed setting up of task forces comprised of a group of conciliation and arbitration commissioners under the supervision of a presidential member gives some idea of the control to be exercised over any conciliation undertaken. No doubt the arbitration policy of the Commission will not go unnoticed by the conciliation commissioners because the task force will be watching their operations and restricting their functions. One would expect little flexibility from this system. It is a well known fact that to have any real value, conciliation must be flexible. This, to me, represents only another attempt to fix award standards. In my opinion this is a contradiction because it takes away from a worker or a group of workers the incentive to improve productivity because no matter how great an effort they make they will have little chance of receiving any extra remuneration, such as by way of an overaward payment. All they will do will be to make the company more wealthy. The employer must realise also that in the long run the abandonment of over-award payments will affect his production figures. Many employers will admit, that overaward payments actually reduce unit costs of output. This is a period when we should be. very cautious not to upset anything that reduces costs. 
A further inhibiting factor is the proposal to give the Government the right to require a full bench to review any conciliated award or order with which it may disagree. The possibility of such a review could mean that any public expression of opinion outside the Commission could be. used to influence seriously the attitude of the conciliators. The much published view of the Government that inflation is caused by wage increases will no doubt influence conciliation procedures. From my experience of appearing before a conciliator I know that no sitting would take place if there were a threat of strike action. It is recognised that an essential feature of conciliation is that duress should be removed before a case is heard, but the right or threat of government intervention completely undermines this principle. Greater intervention by governments in industrial matters can be seen as a part of the implementation of an income policy for controlling wages and salaries without similar control of prices and profits. The threat of Government intervention and award review could bring about a position where the parties could agree to anything because they would know that a later review almost certainly would implement stated Government or arbitrated policy and thus this would absolve them from negotiating in good faith. 
The proposal to extend the right of appeal from aggrieved parties or persons to any parties who can show they are affected by an award or order is only canvassing opposition to the unionists' case from the general public. It will create a fear of outside interference and bring about further delay, aggravating rather than reducing causes for dispute. This action lifts any disguise from the Government's divisive policy. It can be seen only as a snide attempt by the Government to exert pressure on the unions, both inside and outside the Commission. 
We were reminded by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of the Government's support for sanctions when he claimed that penalties are an essential part of the machinery to enforce awards. No matter how much the Government tries, it cannot hide its big stick philosophy when dealing with the unions. No-one will be fooled by the Prime Minister's statement that the 
Government wants to see a balance of power between unions and employers because his bias is shown by the statement that industrial power has moved strongly in favour of the trade unions. He went on to say that the Government did not want to see a weak trade union movement. These contradictory statements will only accentuate the concern felt by the unions that the real purpose of these proposals is deliberately to reduce the power of the unions. 
At a time when mining authorities claim that a large ore body exists in close proximity to a mine that the Broken Hill company is closing down because it claims the ore has been depleted it would be foolish to suggest to 650 retrenched mine workers at Broken Hill that their unions had loo much power, especially since the law allows the management to refuse the unions the right to have representation at an investigation into the amount of ore remaining. If these amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are to be worth anything they would pay greater attention to the suffering of decent, hardworking people caused by high-handed and callous actions of management who, on a mining lease rightly owned by the people, claim the right to decide whether the mine will continue or cease operations. If this type of thing is allowed to happen is it any wonder that we have industrial turmoil? On the other hand, people would have a lot more respect for our arbitration and our parliamentary systems if Government Ministers would speak up and act against such unjust practices. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the North Vietnamese have invited a delegation of Australian anti-war activists to visit North Vietnam next month? Has the Minister any information to indicate whether these anti-war activists will endeavour to induce the North Vietnamese to cease their blatant armed invasion of South Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos? 
An amendment standing in my name has already been circulated to honourable members. I move: 
In proposed section 100a.  -  (I.) omit 'The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health.', insert 'Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard.'. 
My reason for moving this amendment is that many medical authorities other than the National Health and Medical Research Council have publicly pointed out that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health and I think that this amendment is both more accurate and more succinct. In trying to get the message over to people who watch television and who listen to radio it is important that the message should be succinct. For that reason I have moved the amendment. 
In regard to the amendment which was earlier proposed to be moved by the PostmasterGeneral in relation to reducing the warning announcement period from 5 seconds to 3 seconds- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I suggest that the amendments be dealt with separately. 
 I move: 
In proposed section 100A.  -  (4.), paragraph (a) omit 'five' insert 'three'. 
This amendment is consequential on that which has just been approved by the Committee. It reduces from 5 seconds to 3 seconds the period necessary for television and radio advertisements warning that cigarette smoking is hazardous to health. As a consequence of the number of words being reduced from 15 to 9, the time necessary for their delivery is reduced from 5 seconds to 3 seconds. 
This House tonight has to decide 3 important questions. First, is smoking a serious health hazard? Secondly, if so, should the Government do anything about it? Thirdly, are the measures in the present Bill appropriate? On the first question there is no doubt that cigarette smoking is one of the great health hazards in Australia today. Every reputable medical organisation in Australia, America, Canada and Britain certifies that cigarette smoking is a major health hazard. In Australia this opinion has been stated by the Australian Medical Association, the Royal Australian College of Physicians, the Royal Australian College of Surgeons, the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, the Australian Cancer Society, the National Heart Foundation, the Australian Tuberculosis and Chest Association and the National Health and Medical Research Council. So much for the intensity of medical opinion that smoking is a health hazard. Now for the scale of the problem. 
Deaths from just one smoking related disease - lung cancer - are now higher than deaths from tuberculosis ever were. It has been reliably assessed by the Chief Medical Officer of Health in Britain that approximately 10 per cent of all deaths in the community are due to smoking associated diseases. The major ones are lung cancer, heart disease, bronchitis and emphysema. Other less frequent diseases associated with smoking are cancer of the lip, tongue, larynx and bladder as well as certain diseases of the blood vessels. These findings in Britain are corroborated by parallel studies conducted by the United States Department of Health. One of the great difficulties about dealing with smoking induced disease is the addictive or perhaps habituative nature of smoking itself. Medical opinion differs on whether smoking is addictive or habituative but, as far as the smoker is concerned, it is a distinction without a difference. All smokers know how difficult it is to give up smoking. 
One of the criticisms that is usually advanced about smoking induced diseases is that the connection is only statistical. This, of course, is true. But the statistical connection applies to virtually all preventive medicine and virtually all modernmedical research. In nearly all of these fields the connection is only statistical. I cite a parallel case - thalidomide. Thalidomide has one of the great qualities claimed for tobacco smoking - it is a tranquiliser. It is a health risk only to a very small proportion of the community - a small proportion of unborn foetuses. There is no risk at all to anybody else. 
Yes. What we have done because of that risk is impose a total ban on the use of thalidomide. I entirely agree with this but we must remember that this ban is based entirely on statistical evidence far less extensive than the statistical connection between smoking and smokinginduced diseases. I agree entirely with the decision to ban thalidomide. There would be outrage in the community if it ever came on the market again. But it is an example of statistical connection. I emphasise that this connection is far more proven with tobacco induced diseases than it is with thalidomide or any of the other types of tranquiliser caused disease. So I think we must say that the answer to the first question concerning whether smoking is a major health hazard must be a resounding yes. 
The second question is: Should the Government do anything about it? At various times a number of objections have been raised about doing anything about it. The first one usually advanced is that cigarettes are legally manufactured and sold and therefore the Government should do nothing to prevent their promotion. I believe this is specious nonsense. On medical grounds alone one could make a good case for the total prohibition of tobacco as we have done with marihuana and other drugs. We have so many tobacco addicts in the community that this is a totally impractical course but it does not follow that we should do nothing to control the promotion of cigarettes and tobacco. In a different field we also have such a power and we already use it freely. Section 100 (6.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act says: 
A licensee shall not broadcast or televise an advertisement relating to a medicine unless the text of the proposed advertisement has been approved by the Director-General of Health or, on appeal to the Minister under this section, by the Minister. 
In his notes to radio and television companies the Director-General of Health says that no person should advertise any preparation which contains drugs in dangerous quantities. I am not of course suggesting that cigarettes are a medicine - quite the reverse. But I am saying that by controlling radio and television advertising of cigarettes we would not be creating any new principle or destroying any old ones. The Director-General of Health already has the power, which he freely uses, to ban or control the radio and television advertising of preparations whose promotion he believes would be injurious to public health, although the actual sale of these preparations remains perfectly legal. Surely the same criteria should apply to cigarette promotion. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
 Before we rose for dinner I had raised the question whether smoking is a serious health hazard, and I hope I satisfied the House that it is. I was dealing then with the question whether the Government should do anything about it. There are various aspects here. The one to which I attach most importance is that the Director-General of Health already has the power, which he freely uses, to ban or control radio and television advertising of preparations whose promotion he believes would be injurious to public health, although the actual sale of these preparations remains legal. I believe that similar criteria should be used in the promotion of tobacco. An argument sometimes advanced against taking action against cigarette promotion is that it would harm tobacco growers. This is an argument to which any government must give very serious consideration. Tobacco manufacturers have to use a minimum of 50 per cent Australian leaf in their blends or else forfeit a rebate on tariff duties payable on overseas leaf. I do not think we can expect any immediate dramatic effect from this warning we are imposing on radio and television advertising. If we can achieve a slow decline in the average consumption of tobacco per head and hold the total tobacco consumption steady we will be doing well and will have saved many lives. Such an effect would not harm tobacco growers. If in the long term total consumption started to diminish, we could presumably consider raising the statutory quota of Australian leaf. 
Another objection raised is that restrictions on advertising would harm tobacco manufacturers. It is worth noting that all the major ones are overseas controlled, and for the reasons I just gave I do not think their total sales would fall in the short term. They would just stop rising. Another argument sometimes advanced is that everyone is going to die some time, so why should we make this attempt to stop people dying of smoke induced diseases? There are 2 answers here. The first is '.hat lung cancer in particular is a very nasty death, and the second is that a lot of smoking induced deaths come at the breadwinning stage, in the age bracket 45 to 65, which imposes a loss on community output and severe hardship on the family. If we can reduce smoking in this group and prevent young people taking it up we will achieve a great deal. Frankly I do not think we need worry too much about older people. The younger ones are more important. 
Another issue we must consider is the effect on radio and television stations through the possible loss of their advertising revenue. I .think we must take care that whatever measures we take do not inflict unreasonable damage on radio and television stations. I am satisfied that in making its decision the Government has chosen a very careful and well considered course that will have the maximum impact and the minimum of unreasonable damage to radio and television stations, particularly in the country. I am sure that my Country Party colleagues will have some words to say on this subject. The final point in answer to the question whether the Government should do anything about tobacco promotion is that in fact we are already doing it. We encourage the so-called voluntary code of television advertising of cigarettes. The trouble was that this code was completely ineffective. It banned the advertising of cigarettes until 7.30 p.m., with the aim of keeping this advertising away from young people. Unfortunately young people watch television much later than this. A recent survey shows that 37 per cent of 13-year-olds are still watching television at 9.30. The only market that was sacrificed by the tobacco people adopting this socalled voluntary code was the kindergarten market. I think the inescapable conclusion is that the Government has to take action to control promotion in the interests of community health. 
Now we turn to the critical question. Are the Government actions which are proposed appropriate? The key to this problem is undoubtedly education. The Government has promised $500,000 a year for education on the perils of cigarette smoking, and I am sure that this is the key to success. We must educate young people in the perils of smoking before they become addicted to cigarettes. I accept and support the idea of putting warning labels on cigarette packets, although frankly I do not think it will have a great deal of effect, except in showing the young people that the community does not approve of cigarettes or that the community recognises that they are dangerous. But I feel that in general by the time a person has bought a packet of cigarettes he intends to smoke those cigarettes. A warning label will have very little effect on the decision. But if education programmes, which I have said are the key to success, are to be successful we must create an environment in which they can be effective. Such a campaign has to take place in an environment where $12m a year is being spent on cigarette promotion. I know that in theory it is spent merely on brand switching advertising, but in practice it can do nothing other than encourage many young people to take up -smoking. The decision of the Government to require warning notices to be placed on television screens after cigarette advertising and warning announcements to be made after radio advertising of cigarettes is a very sound and sensible one. It has not been tried, as far as I know, anywhere else in the world, and I think it may well be successful in achieving the ends we seek. 
Now I would like to turn for a moment to what is proposed by the Opposition. It is interesting that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spoke about Labor policy. Much of the policy is, of course, in the hands of the State Labor governments, and it is notable that the Labor governments of South Australia and Western Australia have taken no action along the lines he is proposing. I am afraid that I must say that I think much of what he said was Labor policy is in fact a sham. What this amendment proposes, firstly, is that we should ban all cigarette and tobacco advertising on radio and television. I am sure that my Country Party colleagues will deal in some detail with the consequences of that proposition. I support the present decision, which to my mind steers a most sensible middle course. I think it will be effective without inflicting too much hardship on country radio and television stations. I think that a ban would be traumatic for them. 
A ban would cover not only cigarette advertising but tobacco advertising. From the health point of view, what we want to do is divert the inevitable smokers away from cigarettes, which are very dangerous, to pipes and cigars, which are less dangerous, and conceivably even to chewing tobacco, which is completely safe. With regard to the part of the amendment that refers to a vigorous advertising campaign, this is exactly what the Government proposes in this legislation. What the Government has decided to do in relation to this very difficult problem is to adopt a very sensible compromise. I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition and strongly support the Bill. 
Has the Minister for the Navy seen Press reports today of Ministerial leakages of confidential information? Was he responsible for suppling to another Minister confidential information supplied privately to the Public Works Committee? Was this used by the Prime Minister in a Press release in Western Australia? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral say when the regulations on warnings to be given with radio and television advertising of cigarettes will be introduced? 
The first duty of a government is to ensure the effective defence of its country against external attacks. This is a duty which many supporters of the Australian Labor Party all too often forget, yet 1 am sure they would be the first to be viciously critical of defence preparations if danger ever threatened. Their attitude is best summed up by the old doggerel: 'It's Tommy this and Tommy that, and chuck him out, the brute; but it's "Thank you,  Mr Atkins"  when the guns begin to shoot'. It is very easy for shortsighted or subversive people to sneer at the deeds of defence preparation. It is the duty of the Government - of any government - to ignore such people and to provide the defence forces necessary for the freedom and independence of our country. This, the Government is determined to do. On the evidence we have heard tonight, it seems that the alternative government is not. 
One point that is all too frequently overlooked is the time scale in the provision of equipment of the kind we are discussing tonight. Much of the equipment will not be available until the 1980s and it will remain in service until the year 2000. We must try to picture what our strategic situation will be like in the 1980s. It is fatally easy to take a short range view, to say that there is no immediate threat and deduce, therefore, that we should give low priority to defence. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was a perfect example of such an attitude. There could be no wilder folly. Who, in 1931, would have predicted that in 10 years we would be locked in a desperate war with Germany, Italy and Japan? Ten years is the sort of time scale for the delivery of the major equipment we are talking about tonight. We must look at the need in broad strategic terms, not in terms of short range immediate needs. Two dominant strategic principles must apply to a country situated as ls Australia. The first is to endeavour to keep any threat far from our shores. The second is to arrange, and deserve, the support of powerful allies. Both these principles the Labor Party seeks to destroy. 
Our commitments on the mainland of Asia are designed to assist the stability of that turbulent region. This is both in our long term interests and in the interests of the countries concerned. While they are welcome in those countries and while they are achieving their purpose, as they certainly are, our forces should remain. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  has claimed that South East Asian countries are seeking neutralism. I should like  to  quote from an editorial in yesterday's 'Singapore Straits Times'. Commenting on the Australian Labor Party it said: 
Clearly the strategic lessons of the Second World War have not been assimilated and neither does  Mr Barnard  appear to have looked into the reason for NATO's forward defence posture in Europe. Nor does Australia have the naval or air strength to provide striking forces of a size sufficient for the purpose  Mr Barnard  has in mind. A Labor Government is hardly likely to supply them, but Australia does have the ability to reinforce its present deployment - a key feature of the Commonwealth agreement which Malaysia and Singapore welcome.  Mr Barnard  is propagating an unsound doctrine founded on false assumptions. 
That, for the benefit of the honourable member for Sturt, is from the 'Singapore Straits Times' of yesterday. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the great importance to many of the older people in the community of the new nursing home benefits and hostel accommodation, will the Prime Minister -arrange for an early detailed statement to be made in this House so that the proposals can be debated fully? 
 This Budget has thrown the Opposition into complete disarray. Honourable members opposite have been searching desperately to find something to criticise in the Budget. They have solved their problems by talking about practically anything but the 1972 Budget. We have just had a very good example of that technique demonstrated to us by the harangue of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  This avoidance of the issue of the debate is scarcely surprising. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had to dredge the bottom of the barrel to find anything to criticise in tax reforms which totally exempted 600,000 taxpayers from income tax, and decreased the tax payable by the remainder by amounts varying from 14 per cent at the bottom of the income scale to  6i  per cent at the top. In addition to this, deductions for dependents are increased, and expenses for self -education are deductible for the first time. 
It is worth noting that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition does not mention tax, despite all his talk about 'a rich man's budget'. This is obviously because his lavish expenditure promises in every direction could be met only by a great increase in taxation. The measures for new expenditures in this Budget are socially desirable and economically responsible. We will have the opportunity to debate them in detail in the Estimates debates. The decision to abolish the means test obviously threw the Leader of the Opposition into a panic, and he is now arguing, with considerable sophistry and nimble footwork, that when he said 6 years, he really meant 3 years. This is alarming arithmetic from one who claims to be the alternative Prime Minister. 
As I said, the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition makes no mention of where the money is coming from. 
I am talking about where the money is coming from. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition made no mention of taxation for the very obvious reason that all the promises he makes can be redeemed only by greatly increased taxation, as some of the members of his own Party are honest enough to admit. 
What we must get over to members of the community, as, I think, many of them already realise, is the fact that increased productivity is the key to all the things the community is striving for - improved education, better social services, a more pleasant environment and so on. For too many the concept of a fair days work for a fair days pay is a thing of the past. They think they should be paid more for working less, forgetting that the inevitable effect of this will be either higher prices, or a sharp drop in profits, resulting in a lowering of capital investment and a decline in the rise of productivity. In either case the community as a whole is worse off. The idea that we can have more by working less is absurd. Equally absurd is the attitude of people such as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on the 35-hour week. He claims that the Australian Labor Party would pick only on the wealthy industries although he knows that the shorter week would immediately flow on to similar industries, whether they could afford to pay or not. 
The pattern is obvious. Pick on the capital intensive industries which cannot afford to be struck, and the rest will follow. Mobilise suspicion of foreigners by picking on industries with a high level of foreign ownership such as the oil industry, ignoring deliberately the fact that the oil industry is one of the few industries which has price control for its products, and that this price is set by the Prices Commissioner of the Labor State of South Australia. 
Can the Minister for Labour and National Service say whether it is a fact that one of the causes of the current level of unemployment is the excessive cost of labour in some areas of employment? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Last week the Treasurer said that he would be discussing with his colleague the Minister for the Environment the definition of 'impact statements'. Can the Minister enlighten the House on the use the Government is planning to make of the impact statement procedure? 
Too many people in our community, including many on the Opposition benches - not including, I am glad to say, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who, although making a good election speech, was out of tune with a large section of his Party - have forgotten the purpose of the repatriation system, which is to repay a debt the community owes to those who risked death or injury in the defence of all of us. Too many exemplify the attitudes expressed in the old jingle: 
Our God and soldiers we alike adore 
Ev'n at the brink of danger; not before: 
After deliverance, both alike requited, 
Our God's forgotten, and our soldiers slighted. 
In a debate such as this I think we should look at how well we are meeting this debt which we owe those who met death, injury or sickness as a result of war service. Too many in the community think we are paying excessive attention to them. I think we should look at the purposes of this legislation and the way in which the Repatriation Act works. Of course, the Act provides for various forms of pensions which are paid to disabled veterans and their dependants and for families of deceased ex-servicemen. But this is not all. The Act also provides for medical services, including rehabilitation services, for war caused disablement and to the families of deceased exservicemen. Thirdly, of course, we have reestablishment measures which generally apply within a fixed period after discharge from the forces to assist servicemen to resume their places in the community. 
Firstly, I would like to deal with the question of pensions. Briefly I shall run through the types of benefits in a much more broad brush fashion than was possible for the Minister in regard to what we are doing in the area of pensions for exservicemen. What we must judge is whether these pensions are fair, as we believe they are, or whether they are excessive, as some sections of the community allege. The first category of pension is the totally and permanently incapacitated rate. It is interesting to note the definition of a TPI pensioner. He is a war veteran whose war caused incapacity is so severe that it permanently precludes him from earning other than a negligible percentage of the living wage. This pension also is paid to the war blinded and to those who, because of disability, may temporarily be unable to work. People in this category are to receive $48 a week, which is an increase of $3.50 as announced in the Budget. Of course, many of these recipients also will be eligible for means test pensions. In that case they may be able to receive up to $54 if they are single or $77.79 if they are married. I think this is fair and certainly not excessive bearing in mind what TPIs have suffered. 
The second category is that of the intermediate rate which is designed to cater for those who are so seriously disabled because of war related incapacity that they are able to work only part time or intermittently and thus cannot earn a living wage. They will receive $34 a week, an increase as announced in the Budget of $2.75. Again I think this is fair and certainly not excessive. The next pension is the general rate pension which is designed for exservicemen whose war disabilities do not prevent them from working but who are compensated for pain, discomfort, reduced earning capacity and so on. The scale of this rate ranges from 10 per cent to 100 per cent, according to the assessed degree of incapacity. The rate for a person with an assessed 100 per cent incapacity has been increased by $2 to $14 a week. I am delighted to see this increase. 
As was pointed out by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, these rates have been static since 1954 and their increase is very welcome. Also I am glad to see that we have eliminated the varying rate dependent on rank. I think this was an out of date concept. The rest of the scheme, except for the position of war widows which has also been corrected, was based on an absolute rate, depending on the degree of need. I think it is proper that this step should have been taken in regard to the general rate. 
The special compensation allowance is payable to those who suffer serious disablement from war related incapacity. The rate of allowance is set at $6 a week for 100 per cent incapacity and scales down proportionately to $4.50 for 75 per cent incapacity. I think this action is fair and is certainly not excessive. The war widows pension is paid as compensation for the loss of a husband through or as a result of war service. If the war widow is unable to work because of invalidity, is aged 50 or more or has a child in her care she receives a supplementary domestic allowance. Children's pensions also are paid on a compensatory basis. What this means is, allowing also for means tested pensions, that a war widow without children wit now receive up to $44.25 a week and a war widow with one child will receive up to $63.10 a week. This again is fair and not excessive. Other provisions which were contained in the Budget are set out in this Bill. I would like to refer to one more category - service pensions. These are in fact age pensions which are payable to exservicemen who have served in a theatre of war, who have suffered from tuberculosis or who have reached the age of 60, or 55 in the case of women. In other words, they receive their age pension 5 years earlier than does anyone else. Their rate of the pension now is the same as for the age pension. 
I think the structure of repatriation pensions represents a fair recognition of what we, the community, owe to these people who fought in our defence. The second way in which we look after ex-servicemen is in regard to their medical welfare. I think there will be a dramatic change with the introduction of the nursing homes scheme. This will help our older people and will relieve them of great worry. Also it will relieve ex-servicemen of similar worry. I am sure that all honourable members have been faced with the difficult case of ex-servicemen who need nursing home care. But we have been unable to place them because the illness that caused them to go into the nursing home was not, in the opinion of the tribunals, war caused. This has caused serious financial hardship to many ex-servicemen. The new scheme being introduced will remove this hardship. 
What is to happen is that from 1st January next year funds for nursing home care for TPI and intermediate rate war pensioners, war widows and World War I nurses will be provided by the Repatriation Department. When the Department establishes that nursing home care is necessary and arranges admission, the patients will be admitted on the payment of $18 a week - the same arrangements as are being made for pensioners and, through the health scheme, for old people who need to go into nursing homes. This is a very satisfactory arrangement. Repatriation Service pensioners who qualify for pensioner medical service benefits also will be covered by the new scheme. The Repatriation Department, of course, already covers the cost of nursing home care where the cause of the person being in the nursing home is a war caused disability. In these circumstances full payment by the Department will be continued. I think this is a very important step forward which will relieve a severe community problem. I congratulate the Minister on this very important step. 
As was pointed out by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, recently the repatriation system has been under heavy fire. Some of the criticism has been rather strident. Of course there are abuses of the system; there always will be in any human organisation which relies on human judgment. Two inquiries are being conducted into the repatriation system - one has been set up by the Government and the other is being made by a Senate committee. I hope that these committees will make some constructive recommendations which will enable us to concentrate support in the areas of greatest need and to exclude those who do not truly qualify. But we must beware of one thing: We must not set up an administrative system which, with the laudable aim of excluding undeserving cases, delays or excludes the truly deserving cases. 
There is also much confusion over the meaning of section 47 of the Act. This benefit of the doubt section refers to a doubt in the mind of the determining authority after it has heard all the evidence, not just a doubt which remains in the mind of a claimant. This benefit of the doubt section, although it has been much criticised, seems to me to be entirely reasonable. The Repatriation Act is of great importance to a wide section of the Australian public. There are 825,000 ex-servicemen in Australia. If we add their relatives and dependants, the total is probably nearly 2 million. We have a debt of honour to those who have suffered death, injury or loss of health as the result of war service in the defence of our country. This is a debt that this Government intends to honour. 
I ask the Treasurer: What is the extent of moves in inter national monetary forums to develop a neutral reserve asset? What is Australia's position in relation to these moves? 
I should like to ask the 
Prime Minister a question about the Jetair contract. What administrative procedures were followed, whose concurrence was obtained, and who actually approved the contract? 
I would like to make some comments about the remarks just made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  which were nearly as outrageous as the remarks he made during the Jetair debate this morning. He seems to have forgotten a lot or to have a very convenient memory about the Labor Government that was in office before the Second World War. In those years the Labor Governent consistently opposed, as the Labor Party now does, any attempt to build up our defence forces. I can say from personal experience that the morale and state of equipment and size of our defence forces now are very much better than they were in 1949, contrary to what the honourable member for Blaxland implied. The policy of the Labor Opposition now is that Australia's defence frontier is her natural boundaries^ - the coast of Australia. That has been said by the Opposition defence spokesman, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard). 
But I would like to turn to a more important topic than the honourable member for Blaxland. I would like to say something about defence reorganisation. The most important change we have had recently in our defence policy is the acceptance that it may be necessary in certain circumstances for us to act alone. What we should do now is to see whether the organisation of the defence group of departments is suitable for this new role. I am sure that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the Government are aware of the need for change. In fact, I understand that the Secretary of the Department of Defence is at present overseas looking at other defence organisations. What I should like to do is to take the opportunity to make some suggestions as to the direction which I think this evolving change should take. The present structure of the defence group of departments was established when the Department of Defence was merely a sort of secretariat for 3 independent Services and it was possibly adequate for this very limited purpose. Our Services provided contributions to the armed forces of other countries, and the co-ordination required in the Department of Defence was comparatively little. Recently there has been an attempt to increase the role of the Department of Defence, and this I hasten to say is a highly desirable development; but the consequential changes in the top administration have not yet been made. The professional services staffs have merely been grafted on to the old organisation and not integrated into the Department. 
The difficulty of reorganistion stems from the fact that each of the Service boards of the 3 armed Services has independent statutory authority and the control of the Department of Defence over the 3 Service boards stems merely from a letter written by the then Prime Minister in 1958. The present organisation works reasonably well in the provision of defence equipment because of the ultimate control of the Department of Defence over the Services estimates. It does not work at all well in operational matters or, for that matter, in personnel affairs. We must change the structure to eliminate these defects. I am sure the first step must be to remove the statutory authority of the Service boards and transfer this authority to the Department of Defence. Whether the Service boards or, for that matter, the Service Ministers, would continue would be a matter of administrative convenience. But it must be quite clear that authority of the boards is subordinate to that of the Department of Defence. If we transfer this authority to the Department of Defence we must see that the organisation there is capable of exercising this authority, and as the Department of Defence is at present constituted it quite clearly is not. 
The first point is that the position of the Secretary of the Department of Defence is an anomalous one. To use the words of the present Secretary, he 'exercises the basic function of policy adviser to the Minister for Defence, joining with the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff, in respect of certain subjects'. The danger lies in the fact that the Secretary does not necessarily have any military experience or expertise, and it is unfair to give him responsibilities for which he may not be properly equipped, lt would be as unfair as, for instance, appointing a general with no diplomatic experience as Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs. This is meant in no way as a criticism of the present Secretary of the Department of Defence, who is an able and distinguished public servant, but rather as a criticism of the administrative system which he has inherited. I am sure that all servicemen in this country accept and welcome the fact that they are subordinate to the civil power, but this civil power means the Government, not the Public Service. If the Department of Defence is to accept overriding control of the present responsibilities of the 3 Service boards, as I am sure it must, we must set up a defence board to exercise these responsibilities. The responsibilities of this board would be largely professional, and we would need professionals to perform its duties. 
I suggest that the defence board should be structured very much like the present Service boards, that is, presided over by the Minister, with one military member and a  deputy  for strategic operational and staff policies, one military member for personnel, another for maintenance and another for supply, with a civil secretary dealing with finance and departmental affairs. Of course, the members of the defence board would have to be supported by integrated professional staffs. We must not fall into the trap of over-emphasising systems analysis. This technique has its uses, but also has very great limitations. Too many systems analysis reports inevitably have a gaping void between quantified trivialities and fascinating but entirely undisciplined flights of fantasy. I hope that we do not have to learn - I am sure we will not - the lesson that the Americans so painfully learnt over the last 10 years of the limitations of systems analysis. 
A properly organised defence board would overcome the defect that the present Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff, the senior professional serviceman in Australia, has no operational authority. In fact, no-one in Australia at the moment has overriding operational authority; except the GovernorGeneral, and he cannot exercise t. The operational control of the Services must be clearly established and must be vested in this new defence board. The defence board would also overcome the great weaknesses in our personnel affairs. The personnel member of the defence board, supported by an appropriate integrated Services staff, would do a great deal, I am sure, to achieve a better utilisation of manpower in the Services. 
I should like to refer also to the Joint Intelligence Organisation. I welcome the establishment of such an organisation in the Department of Defence, but I am disturbed at the apparent policy - it may not be the policy; it only appears to be - of automatically appointing an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs as Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation. Although there are some exceptions, diplomats by their background and training are generally unsuited for intelligence duties. Our foreign service is modelled very much along the lines of the British foreign service. If one wishes to see the limitations of the Department of Foreign Affairs as an intelligence organisation it is only necessary for one to read the history of the British Foreign Office in the Second World War. I think the trouble stems, at least partly, from the desire of diplomats to back every horse in the race, which is admirable from the point of view of showing that whatever happens you predicted it but is a very poor guide to policy. I would suggest that officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs should be appointed as heads of the Joint Intelligence Organisation if their special qualities make them suitable for this role, but it certainly should not be policy that the head of the JIO should automatically be an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
There are other measures we should take to improve the integration of the Services. The establishment of a joint cadet college and the adoption of similar functional command organisations by the 3 Services are important examples of this necessary process. But this integration must begin at the top by a reorganisation of the Department of Defence. The existing organisation has served us adequately in the past. But, 'the old order changeth, yielding place to new', and the organisation of the Department of Defence must be changed to meet our changing defence needs. As I said at the outset of my speech, I am sure that the Minister for Defence is aware of these changing needs and is investigating the best way to meet them. I hope that my remarks have been a constructive contribution to his consideration. 
I ask the Treasurer whether the Government has considered enabling local government authorities to have access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. What would be the practicalities of such a proposal? 
The proposals which the Government has set before this House in the Governor-General's Speech, which they modestly describe as the most comprehensive program of legislation in the history of the Australian Parliament, are certainly designed to spend a great deal of other people's money. But they are still promises, not performances. It is necessary for us to examine critically their program to see whether it is economically feasible. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has recently published an impartial expert survey of the Australian economy - the first such survey ever. It is worth quoting some of its conclusions, because these represent the economic start point of the present Government. The OECD concluded, inter alia, that: 
Australia entered the 1970s with an economy stronger and more dynamic in many respects than  a  decade earlier. . . 
It said: 
. through most of the 1960s full employment and price stability were well maintained, and the rate of economic growth accelerated. 
The OECD survey went on to say: 
So immense are the continent's natural resources, and so well geared to their development appear to be the skills and energies of the people, that the next two decades could well be a period of expansion more vigorous than the two that have passed. 
But it added the timely warning that this will demand judgment and skill in national economic management. 
This is the crux of the problem. The objectives of many of the Government's proposals are socially very desirable, although we would often question very seriously the methods by which they are to be implemented. But, if personal consumption is not to be reduced - and this the Government has said it will not do - the only way we can afford increased expenditure on education, social services, health, care of the aged, housing and urban renewal, improved transport and environmental control is through increased productivity. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who is certainly no economist, recognises the problem, and in the bill of goods he sold to his public last December he suggested a growth rate of 6 per cent to 7 per cent - but carefully made no mention of how he proposed to achieve this. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  admitted 2 weeks ago that our rate of growth is not enough to support the program on which his Government had been elected. Some confession - and a clear vindication of what members on this side of the House were saying during the election campaign, when trying to bring the Labor Party's 'pie in the sky' promises back to some sort of reality. 
Faced with this problem, one would have expected a sane Government to tackle seriously the problem of productivity. Yet what has the Government done? The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is campaigning for - no, demanding - a 35-hour week. This is a  12i  per cent reduction in the output of labour. What a way to raise productivity! He also wants another week's annual leave - a further 2 per cent reduction in the output of labour. What a way to raise productivity! The Minister for Labour has also foreshadowed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which will have the effect of increasing the already excessive monopoly power of the trade unions, and this in turn can only lead to gross maldistribution of our productive resources. What a way to raise productivity! He also wants to encourage the shop steward movement. Shop stewards are an importation from Britain, and are quite foreign to the concept of our system of conciliation and arbitration. The shop steward movement has played a major role in reducing Britain's industry to a state of near chaos. And this is what the Minister for Labour is encouraging here. What a way to raise productivity! 
I suppose, in theory at least, the crass ineptitude of the Minister for Labour could be compensated by a wise capital investment program for industry. What has the Government done here? Investment capital comes either from profits - the source of over half of our manufacturing investment - or from new investment which in turn is heavily influenced by profits. The. policy of the Government - although it is probably inadvertent, like most of the rest of its economic management - is to squeeze profits between the jaws of minimum wages and maximum prices. And between these limits, unions are being encouraged by the Government to use their monopoly power to extract crippling overaward wage increases. The result can only be a sharp drop in new investment from internal sources. Potential investment from external sources, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  proudly says, is told it is not required. What a way to raise productivity! In economic management, the present Government's right wing may not know what its left wing is doing, but one can always be very sure where its foot is. 
It is very noticeable, that there is no mention in the Governor-General's Speech of any attitude towards wages and salaries. I should have hoped that the Government would have shown some interest in an incomes policy, covering both wage and salary earners. At least its party colleagues in Britain tried to introduce such a policy. Through our arbitration system we have, by world standards, a remarkable system of fair control of wage differentials. Rather than destroy the. arbitration system, a course on which members opposite seem determined, I should like to see us building on and extending the wage and salary system, so that eventually we achieve a proper incomes policy. But the extraordinary thing about the Government's policy is that while it refuses to tackle an incomes policy, it plans to control prices. At least that is something in which it is unique. No-one else would be so foolish. I am not opposed to prices justification in appropriate circumstances, but these circumstances are very limited, and only appropriate at all if combined with an incomes policy. 
The disadvantages of across-the-board price control are well known - a swollen bureaucracy, the impossibility of setting fair prices for new products and misallocation of new capital investment. True competition is a much more, efficient system of price control than is government price control, and it is worth noting that this competition does not necessarily have to be internal. With judicious adjustment of tariffs, external competition can be created to compete with an internal monopoly. I believe that a price fixing or price justification system is only appropriate for industries and products where for some reason the competition is inadequate and, if tariff and restrictive trade practice policies are effective, such inadequate competition should only be temporary. I should like to refer also to the extraordinary action of the Government in announcing the intention to use Government contracts as the vehicle for its political program, rather than weighing the cost and value to the community. This subject was well covered in a debate in the House this morning, so I shall do no more than point out that the Government's new policy would be a major disincentive to industrial efficiency. What a way to raise productivity. A community cannot have more by working less or less efficiently. 
The present muddle-headed policy of the Government is heading us towards inevitable economic crisis. So too in our defence and foreign affairs, this Government, to use the words of the present Prime Minister, lurches from crisis to crisis. In part, of course, it is caused by the fact that the Prime Minister is also, on a part time basis, the Foreign Minister. Insofar as he took this portfolio himself in order to prevent the present Minister for Overseas Trade from claiming the Foreign Ministry I understand his problem and agree with his decision. He has a poor bunch of Ministers to choose from, and he has had obvious difficulty in placing some of 'them. But Australia is now paying the price for the administrative incompetence of the second Whitlam Ministry. We cannot afford these days a part time foreign policy run by a part time Foreign Minister. 
Let us look at some of the things that have been done. The Prime Minister has been trying to peddle a vague, naive scheme for South East Asia as a zone of neutrality. This has been treated with scorn or polite amusement by the countries in the area. They realise that a desire for neutrality - even a guaranteed neutrality - is ridiculous unless they are willing and able to defend themselves. The fates of Laos and Cambodia are well known to all of them. Our Government says that when the neutral zone is introduced we will cease our military commitment to the area - at the very time when it would be most important. No wonder the countries of South East Asia view our present Government with suspicion and concern. I draw the Prime Minister's attention to the examples of Sweden and Switzerland, which have been able to preserve their neutrality for more than a century because they never neglected their defence. 
Then there is Thailand. The Prime Minister has outraged that friendly country by picturing it as a potential Vietnam. Reactions in Thailand range from the mild remark of their Foreign Minister saying that Thailand is not Vietnam and that the Prime Minister should have visited Thailand before making such a statement, to a newspaper editorial suggesting that the Prime Minister should mind his own bloody business. What a way to keep friends in South East Asia. Then there is America. There is an almost pathological anti-American strain running through the Labor Party. For many members of the Labor Party America can do no right - and China can do no wrong. Three Cabinet Ministers insulted the  President  of the United States and were not disowned by the Prime Minister. Our relations with the United States have sunk to the lowest level since the last Labor Government was in power. 
Then there was the Prime Minister's gross indiscretion over the intelligence base in Singapore. I do not know whether the Prime Minister regrets his action, but I am sure he is very, very sorry that he was found out. 
And let us look at the gang he was trying to appease by his gaffe - the so-called socialist left of his Party. They are not a negligible group; they still control the Victorian Branch of the Labor Party, and have several sympathisers in the Cabinet. They do not share the Prime Minister's vision of a neutral South East Asia. They want a communist South East Asia. Do honourable members remember the clamorous applause they gave to the overt communist invasion of South Vietnam? They do not want good relations with America. They want to poison our relations with America, and are delighted at the success the present Government has had in achieving this aim. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the damage that the Prime Minister has done is not limited to the reported drying up of our intelligence exchange with America, very serious though this is. How can any country trust us, if our Prime Minister is likely to blurt out gross indiscretions in order to appease a dissident group of his own party, regardless of the international consequences? International trust is slow to build, but it can be destroyed frighteningly quickly, as the Government is doing. Some of the things the Government has done since 2nd December have been good, but in the key areas of economic management and foreign affairs its actions are being disastrous. It is a ramshackle, sectional party. Honourable members opposite call themselves the political arm of the trade union movement. It is time they realised that, for good or ill - and it seems likely to be mostly for ill - they are the Government of the whole of Australia, and should adjust their policies accordingly. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In his answer to a question asked last week by the honourable member for Parramatta about one of the previous Government's letters to the Yugoslav Government, did the Prime Minister attempt to justify his description of that letter as a lie by claiming that not to tell the whole truth is to tell a lie? In his repeated evasions of questions about the reasons for  Senator Murphy's  midnight raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation offices in Canberra - an evasion which continued in the debate which was gagged in this House this week - did the Prime Minister, by his own definition of the word, lie and lie, and lie again to this House? Will he now answer this question without lying, as he dennes the word? (Question not answered) 
Has the Treasurer made any assessment of the likely effect on the national economy of the ban by the Australian Council of Trade Unions on French trade? In view of the fact that the ban is certain to be diplomatically completely ineffective, is he as Treasurer in favour of it? 
Although I have doubts about its effectiveness, I accept that this is a very important Bill. Inflation is a great problem in all developed countries, but none has yet found a solution, except perhaps those prepared to use ruthless totalitarian methods or to accept a high level of unemployment. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  rightly rejects the deliberate creation of a high level of unemployment as a means of controlling inflation, and in that we on this side of the House strongly support him. But the combination of high employment and low inflation is a very difficult one to maintain. The Treasurer in his second reading speech very generously pointed out the excellent record that the 
Liberal-Country Party Government had in this respect for most of the 1960s. The last few years, for reasons not unassociated with the change of leadership of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, have seen a worsening of the inflationary situation. Both sides of this House have a duty to approve any proposals of the Government which are likely to reduce this inflation, an inflation which strikes at the roots of our society and damages most those least able to defend themselves. 
In his second reading speech the Treasurer referred to the Government's submission in the recent national wage hearing, when the Government said, in effect, that the Arbitration Commission could go ahead and grant large wage increases because the Government would control inflation through demand management. These are pious words and seem to give demand management a dominant importance as an anti-inflationary tool which all recent experience in full employment economies around the world would suggest is greatly exaggerated. I think that one of his Treasury advisers must have been on top instead of on tap. 
What is this Government's record on demand management? It came to power after promising extensive and expensive programs in almost every aspect of our affairs - health, education, social security, housing, urban development and protection of the environment. Most of these have desirable aims, although we on this side of the House would frequently question the methods by which they are to be achieved. But what is quite clear is that the only way they can be achieved, unless personal consumption is to be reduced through increased taxation - the Government has promised not to do that - is by a rapid rise in national production. One would have expected a sane government or one under any sort of effective leadership from its Prime Minister, faced with a dilemma of expensive promises and rising inflation, to do all it could to increase production. But what has this Government done? The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is campaigning for a 35-hour week, which will cause a 12i per cent loss of production. The Government has led the way to an extra week's annual leave, which will cause a further 2 per cent drop in production. The new Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, recently guillotined through this House by the Minister for Labour, is certain to decrease national productivity still fur ther. If the Government were serious about controlling inflation, the first step would be to restrain sharply its immediate promises and its Minister for Labour. 
To be fair to the Treasurer, I must say that he did point out that there is no simple cure for inflation, although some of the other measures he mentioned - such as revaluation of the Australian dollar, restraints on overseas borrowing and domestic monetary measures - really come under the heading of 'demand management'. Others, such as restrictive trade practices, can have no immediate effect. Tariffs, which were mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and which could be helpful in controlling inflation, are very unlikely to be effective while the present Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  remains in office. He has a very old-fashioned approach to the role of tariffs. He seems to think of tariffs merely as a means of protecting employment rather than as a means of encouraging the optimum use of resources. Only by encouraging the optimum use of resources can tariff changes have an effect on inflation. But that sensible approach seems to be against Labor Party dogma. 
So, all we are left with, as far as the Treasurer is concerned, is prices justification. He made no mention of an incomes policy, although that is obviously central to a serious prices policy. The omission of an incomes policy is a clear indication that Labor Party dogma overrides serious economic considerations. This can be seen, in perhaps its clearest form, in the decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to reverse what seemed to be a clear decision at last week's Premiers Conference, namely, to investigate an incomes-prices policy. Now we are told by the Prime Minister that the investigation will not cover incomes or wages. I wonder why. 
What can a prices policy achieve? The 'Economist' magazine recently pointed out, after a survey of a number of countries, that the presence or absence of price control had no noticeable effect on price rises. Why then is the Government proposing such a measure? Obviously it has attractive public appeal. Everyone wants incomes to go up, but no one wants price rises too. The Government says: Let us fix prices and then all our problems will be solved'. 
When one asks how increased costs are to be absorbed, the answer given is: 'Out of profits'. This ignores the fact that many costs that press on low income earners are not the result of profits. Rates and transport and electricity charges, all of which services are nonprofitmaking, are good examples of this. Even the absorption by profit-making companies of greatly increased costs may and probably will be against the public interest. Our profits, particularly in manufacturing industry, are low by international standards, and any further reduction of profits would cripple new investment, on which our future prosperity depends. For example, the failure of the recent price inquiry to grant the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd an appropriate price rise to cover increased wage costs has caused a sharp reduction in plans for new investment in steel making. The Australian community will be the loser in the long run. Another argument which has been advanced in favour of the Prices Justification Tribunal is that wages are controlled and therefore prices should be controlled. This is absurd. Wages are not controlled. Only minimum wages are controlled, and it is above-award wages obtained by unions ruthlessly using their monopoly power that are the dominant cause of cost-push inflation. 
Nevertheless, short-sighted though it may be and inadequate though it may be, the Government does have an effective mandate to set up a Prices Justification Tribunal and it would be wrong of us to frustrate this, although we believe that in its present form it will be futile. How should such a tribunal operate? It will cover only the 400 or so biggest companies. But these have many thousands of individual products. One has only to look at the number of products sold by a firm such as Myer Emporium Ltd to see the scale of the problem. The only basis on which such a tribunal could operate is, one way or another, control on profits. The greatest difficulty for the Tribunal will be the pricing of new products. One of the reasons why price control worked reasonably well during World War II was that there were few new products then coming onto the market. Now there are many new products. If we are not careful we will have all our industry working on a cost-plus basis with no incentive to improve efficiency. This would be a disastrous consequence of a muddle-headed decision by this Government. I believe that one of the most important roles the Tribunal could perform would be educational. The British Prices and Incomes Board published reports of 30 to 40 pages on important cases, examining the issues involved in depth. I hope that our Tribunal will do likewise. Also, the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal will cover many of the activities of the Monopolies Commission proposed by the previous Government. If there is both a Prices Justification Tribunal and a Monopolies Commission there is bound to be buck passing, duplication of investigations and duplication of scarce staff, as well as unco-ordinated policy making. 
Two fat bureaucracies, each competing for scarce staff. I believe that the responsibilities of the Prices Justification Tribunal should be extended to cover the responsibilities of the Monopolies Commission proposed by the previous Government. In my opinion, the Tribunal could also usefully deal with foreign takeovers. I put those suggestions to the Treasurer. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had pointed out that incomes were an integral part of any serious prices policy and also that the complexity of the problem facing the Tribunal made it very probable that the economic effect of the Prices Justification Tribunal would be to make Australian industries work on a cost plus basis with no incentive to improve efficiency. 
Whether or not trade unions and wages are the cause of inflation, the indisputable fact is that wage restraint is necessary if the rise in prices is to be slowed down without massive unemployment. In one of his typically inept interventions in economic policy, the Minister for Labour has publicly advocated that a reduction in working hours should be granted in industries, as the Minister expressed it, which are able to afford it. In view of what we are discussing today, it is ironic that the oil industry, which is the Minister for Labour's first target, has been subject to price control for its major products for many years. The South Australian Prices Commissioner sets maximum petrol prices throughout Australia. If, indeed, the Minister for Labour is right, and the oil companies' profitability is excessive, surely it would be better for prices to be reduced so the whole community - including the workers - benefit, rather than all the benefits being passed on to a very small group of trade unionists. But that sensible solution again seems against Labor Party dogma. 
For the time being, the Arbitration Commission must remain the main source of wage policy, and despite the strong hints of the Minister for Labour, it must seek to balance the public interest in industrial peace with the public interest in avoiding inflation. The fact that the Commission's function is to prevent and settle interstate industrial disputes does not mean that it should ignore the possible inflationary impact of its decisions, since inflation is a main cause of the disputes it is meant to prevent. The Constitution, however, only confers on the Commission the power to arbitrate disputes. In other words, if employers and employees agree on wage increases, as they have increasingly done in collective bargaining, the Commission is powerless, except by refusing to register or certify such agreements or endorse them as awards. It had this power under the previous Government's Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and has retained it, in a regrettably watered down form, in the Bill we have recently passed. 
Some people regard all collectively negotiated wage agreements as a bad thing. This is quite wrong. Birt some important agreements may be against the public interest. I would like to see the Arbitration Commission use its power and refuse to register those agreements it disapproved of. For example, because of their excessive size; because of the need to avoid inflation; or because they pre-empt a national wage case decision, as in 1971. The problem is to decide what the public interest is. The term 'public interest' has never been really defined. I think, in this field, it can be met by laying down what average wage increases the economy could stand without excessive inflation. The Commission would therefore need to be given public economic guidance by the Government, as the representatives of the public interest, on what average level of wage increase would be within the public interest. 
If the Commission refused to register a wage agreement, then the Prices Justification Tribunal, in my opinion, should refuse to allow it as a cost to be passed on in higher prices. Similar criteria might be applied to salaries which rise, on average, faster than the target laid down by the Government. Incidentally, there is much evidence that salaries are rising substantially faster than wages. This suggestion of not allowing such unjustified costs to be passed on is an alternative to the proposal I made in this House 2 years ago to use the income tax system for this purpose. But the Government must accept the consequences of such action. If the Arbitration Commission refused to register a consent award as being against the public interest, and the employers therefore refused to pay it, the Government would have to be prepared to indemnify the company financially against the consequences of a resultant strike. Otherwise no highly capitalised company can resist excessive wage demands. Look at an airline. A strike costs an airline probably $30,000 a day. How could it be expected to resist a threat of a crippling strike by a small group of employees, however unreasonable their demands? Of course they give in - and the country is the loser in the not-too-long run. 
I hope the Government will revise its present policy and try to strengthen the Arbitration Commission's role as an instrument of national wage policy, rather than to dismantle it. We have a great history of reasonable wage justice, and establishment of fair wage differentials, If the Government and Prices Justification Tribunal were prepared to act in the way I have proposed, it would not result in a perfect incomes prices policy, but it would at least be a start. What this Government is proposing is a half-hearted attempt at such a policy. The Government is a sectional party - it describes itself as the political arm of the trade union movement - and it is prepared to submerge the interests of the community as a whole before the sectional interests of its members. Inflation is a great problem. The Government, by its inept policies, is making it much worse, and its countermeasures are feeble, doctrinaire and ineffective. 
asked the Minister far Education, upon notice: 
Does the Government attach importance to the involvement of parents and teachers in the policy and administration of their schools. 
If so, will the Government take action to ensure that parents' and teachers' organisations are appropriately represented on the Schools Commission. 
. I would like to follow up some of the points he has made and look firstly at local government finance. 
Compared to other federations, the functions allotted in Australia to local government are unusually limited in scope. I believe we must expand the role of local government as the democratic body closest to the people. I suggest that the administrative principle we should follow is that power should be delegated to the body closest to the people iia which that power can be effectively exercised. But power cannot be effectively exercised without financial independence. That he who pays the piper calls the tune is only too true. One of the great erosions of the independence of the States was the transfer of their taxing powers to Canberra so that they became financial clients of the Federal Government. Now the first step in the same process is being taken in respect of local government. It may be desirable, but we must look at the consequences. What are the financial needs of local government in Australia? Total expenditure by local government for the year 1970-71, the latest year for which financial figures are available, amounted to $965m. This represented only a little over 7 per cent of expenditure by all levels of government in that year. There has been little change in the last 15 years. There has been a general consistency in the proportional level of local government expenditure with a slight increase in the early 1960s since followed by a small decline. 
Local government's share of government employment also has remained reasonably stable since 1946 comprising between 9.6 per cent and 10.3 per cent of total government employment in every year since then. Social services, which are obviously of growing importance in local government, have really been relatively minor activities of local councils. For example, in Victoria in 1968-69 they comprised only 4-7 per cent of ordinary service expenditure and if cultural facilities and grants to hospitals and charities are included, it rises to only 14.8 per cent. This clearly is the area m which local government expenditure in the near future will rise sharply if local government is to meet reasonable community needs and the needs of good administration. The needs of local government tend to be exceptionally labour intensive, and labour productivity in local government is very difficult to raise. Therefore, even if local government were to maintain parity with other levels of government and the private sector, local government employment should be increasing and, consequently, the relative financial expenditure of local government should also be increasing. I emphasise again that its relative financial expenditure is slowly declining. 
Clearly local government needs more resources to do effectively what it has been doing in the past, apart from financing the considerable expansion of its activities which 
I believe to be socially and administratively desirable. What are the sources of local government finance? On an Australia-wide basis, in 1970-71 local government had borrowings of $142m. Of the remainder, representing current revenue of $606.5m, some 68.4 per cent came from rates and fines - principally rates - 17.6 per cent came from profits on public enterprises and 13.2 per cent came from grants from State governments. There are a number of points to make about these figures. Firstly, local councils raise over 85 per cent of their current revenue, an enormously higher proportion than do State governments. By international standards also this is an abnormally high proportion. If Australia's local government bodies are compared with comparable bodies in other countries, it will be seen that the proportion of revenue raised by local councils in Australia is higher than it is in Canada, United States of America, Sweden and twice as high as it is in New Zealand. Looking at government grants as a percentage of the ordinary revenue of local government, in Australia 14.7 per cent is provided by the Government, in New Zealand 20 per cent is provided by the Government, in the United States of America 28 per cent is provided by the Government, and in Canada 32 per cent, more than double the Australian figure, is provided by the Government. So local government bodies in Australia are raising an abnormally high proportion of their revenue from their own resources. This naturally gives them a much higher degree of independence. But power, of course, has its responsibilities. 
No one likes paying taxes. Councillors are very close to the people - that is their great quality - but this also makes them very vulnerable to ratepayer reaction and there is therefore a very real limit to how high, in practice, rates can be set. I would like to say a few things about rates. They are often criticised as being a regressive tax falling exclusively on property owners. This is not true. Landlords naturally pass on their rates. Rents inevitably include an appropriate proportion of rates. So all people, whether rent payers or property owners, are in practice paying rates. Rating thus covers as broad a spectrum of the community as does income tax, and is far less regressive than sales tax, for instance. 
As I have said before, there is a practical political limit to how high rates can be pushed, and if councils are to pursue their roles efficiently, they need additional finance, which in practice can come, directly or indirectly, only from the Federal Government. Some ratepayers, and some councils, seem to think this will be money for nothing. In fact it will be paid in the form of tax by very much the same people as pay the rates, but at least the council will not have to bear the political odium. 
Before I turn to how this additional finance should ideally be distributed, I should like to mention one other point. In Victoria, the largest councils have populations of over 100,000 and the smallest, under 500, and there is a similar pattern in most other States. It is difficult to find an easy measure of the dis-economies of small scale in local government, but one measure is the proportion of net current expenditure devoted to general administration. New South Wales has the highest population per local government authority and also the lowest proportion of expenditure on administration. Victoria, whose authorities are smaller than New South Wales - an average of 16,500 as compared to the New South Wales average of 20,600  -  finds its administration costs are 11 per cent higher. Of course, the principal advantage of local government is its small size. So, it is close to the people and it should not attempt to become too large. A United States study showed that costs per head of population, after declining as the size of local government areas became larger, eventually began increasing as the optimum size was exceeded and we must be careful not to consolidate local government so far that it not only loses touch with the people but it also starts becoming less economic. 
How should this additional finance, which I am sure both sides of the House agree is necessary for local government, be distributed to local councils? So far I have supported the purpose - or anyway, the ostensible purpose - of the Bill which is to give help to councils. But when one examines the actual proposals of the Government, one has serious doubts. I agree with the point made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his second reading speech; the problem is to reduce disparities between council areas. This undoubtedly is the greatest problem. Some councils - those in wealthy areas which are fully built up, with most facilities already provided - have little if any need for the type of assistance we are discussing today. Others, in expanding areas, with less rateable value, have great need  of  assistance and 1 can accept that the Grants Commission which has long given balancing payments to the mendicant States would be a suitable body to consider the claims of local government. 
Clearly, of course, the Grants Commission could not possibly deal with 900 separate local government bodies. So, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is going to approve regional groupings  of  local government authorities and permit them to apply to the Grants Commission. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and accepted by the Prime Minister to require in the Act as it will become that there should be consultation with the State governments before these regional groupings are approved in my opinion is a great improvement, but nevertheless the ultimate power rests with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. He is the one who will give his approval on these issues and I do not believe that this is a proper power to give the Minister because he does not have the staff or the organisation to make rational judgments on this issue. 
As far as I can see, the reason for this administrative monstrosity seems to be purely to redeem a rash but vote catching electoral promise by the Prime Minister to allow local government direct access to Commonwealth funds. That was one reason. The other reason seems to be that the Government sees an opportunity to deal a sharp blow at the prestige and power of the State governments. As the Prime Minister has said in this House, he would prefer a unitary system; and this Bill provides him with an opportunity to march some distance along that stoney path. 
But if we do not agree with what the Government proposes, what alternatives are there? 1 suppose we could give a general purpose grant to the States and hope that they would spend more on the local councils. After all, each State has a large local government department dealing with the problem of councils and, on an Australia wide basis, more than 13 per cent of local government current revenue already comes from the State governments. But I am sure that such an approach would not be effective. Any grants for local government must be made as a specific grant under section 96 of the Constitution to make sure that it reaches its intended objective. 
But local government constitutionally is the responsibility of the States and the State governments must be concerned in this process. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development said that the States would not be bypassed in this process, but there is not much guarantee of this in the Bill. The Minister did not make entirely clear the extent to which State governments were to be concerned. I suggest that State governments should assess the needs of their local councils, using the local government organisation that already exists in the States, particularly the need to equalise services, and the States should be the body that presents the case for their local governments to the Grants Commission. The Grants Commission could then make a recommendation to the Government for the proportional allocation of available resources between the States so as to equalise local government services between the States. The administrative responsibility within the States would remain where it should be, namely, with the State governments. Although I deplore the political and administrative failings of the Government in this Bill, I support its purpose of providing urgently needed additional finance for local government and because of this urgent need 1 am prepared to support the Bill 
It gives me also great pleasure to see this Bill introduced, a Bill which effectively codifies the report put forward by the Jess Committee. But what we are considering today are 3 Bills of great complexity. The main one contains 79 pages. These Bills affect about 70,000 present servicemen and many thousands of retired ones. It was introduced into this House last Friday and 5 days later we are debating it. For a Bill of such complexity, in my opinion, that is a grossly inadequate time for proper consideration. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has pointed out what seems to him and to me an anomaly in the Bill. I am sure many other anomalies will be found when people with close interest in and concern about these Bills study them in detail. 
It is a matter for great regret therefore that we have not had more time to go into the Bills in detail and consult those most concerned. What the main Bill does is effectively to introduce the provision and the recommendations of the Jess Committee, of which I was a member, as was the honourable member for Herbert and, of course, the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  I congratulate the Minister for Defence on thus honouring an election promise he made on behalf of his Party. It was, we must recognise, an all-party committee and the findings were unanimous, with one minor dissent by  Senator Byrne.  The setting up of the Committee had support from both sides of the House. Although I said that this Bill does implement the recommendations of the Jess Committee, 1 should add that it has had to vary them in a number of ways, some of them necessary. I have quite serious doubts about others, although I accept the principle and the purpose of what is going on. I would like to run through a few of my doubts. One of the overriding purposes of the Jess Committee was to achieve simplicity. The earlier Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund legislation had many admirable features, but it failed in its purpose because it was not understood by the average serviceman. For that reason the 
Jess Committee very strongly felt that there should be a single Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund Act, simple in form and comprehensible to servicemen. Only in this way would we achieve the purpose which the Government had in mind. 
For reasons I do not agree with, the Government has chosen to retain the old Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund Act in existence as a means of continuing to pay benefits to pensioners who left the Services before 1 October last year. I can see why that has been done, but I do not agree with it. The Jess Committee had in mind that people who left the Services before 1 October 1972 should have their updated pensions assessed as a percentage of the rank they held at the time of retirement. For instance, a major would have a pension equal to 40 per cent of the current active pay of a major. These people should be transferred to the new scheme on that basis. Thereafter their pensions should be updated by maintaining a steady ratio with the active pay for their rank. 
The reason why that has not been done is quite clear. So far the Government has been unable to reach any conclusions about the best method of updating pensions. The suggestion I put forward implicitly accepted that the system was to operate on the basis of average weekly earnings. Apparently the Government is not yet prepared to accept that suggestion, although it is worth noting that a different arm of the same Government, operating as it tends to do in different directions, has accepted that principle in the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act which has been passed by this House. If the Government can adopt that suggestion in the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation I cannot see why it will not give equivalent benefits to its servicemen. 
I am glad to see that in respect of pensioners who left the Services before 1 October 1972 the Government has accepted the full benefits which the Jess Committee recommended for children. There is no doubt at all that the benefits for children have become grossly outdated. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  mentioned one anomaly. I think it is a clear error in drafting the Bill. It concerns late entrant officers. In that respect the initial report of the Jess Committee was incomplete. When representations were made after the Jess Committee report was published it became obvious that some late entrant officers - officers who enter the Services probably in their 30s and are unable to complete 20 years service before they reach the mandatory retiringage for rank - would receive less under the Jess scheme than they would under the post- 1959 scheme. This was an obvious unfairness. It was not totally compensated for by the fact that those people were contributing at very high rates - over 10 per cent of their pay in many cases - and would receive a substantial refund of their contributions. The recommendation of the Jess Committee in its supplementary report, in a letter to the then Minister for Defence, which the Government has not adopted, was that any late entrant officer who found that his future entitlement was being reduced should be entitled to buy back notional service to bring his entitlement under the new scheme as high as it was under the post- 1959 scheme. That has not been accepted by the Government. I think that is a mistake, because from that refusal stems the error of drafting pointed out by the honourable member for Herbert. 
The contribution rate is now to be a constant 5.5 per cent of pay. This was done in the interests of simplicity and because it was the rate paid currently by most post- 1959 contributors. There is no magic in the figure of 5.5 per cent. It was merely a figure picked out to represent a fair contribution by servicemen. I know that in the study of the Commonwealth Superannuation Act the proposal has been put forward that the contribution by Commonwealth public servants should be 5 per cent. That has not yet been accepted by the Government. If it is accepted, I think the Government should consider very seriously bringing the DFRB rate down from 5.5 per cent to 5 per cent because, in my view, it would be quite unfair for servicemen to pay a higher rate than public servants. 
I turn now to the key area in which I part company with the Government. The Government has not been prepared to make a decision on what is in many ways the most important aspect of the report: that is the method of updating. The Jess Committee after considering various alternatives recommended that updating be done on the basis of average weekly earnings. We managed to prove, at least to my satisfaction, that Service pay followed very closely average weekly earnings. Therefore the requirements of both simplicity and fairness would be met if after retirement a pensioner's annuity was maintained as a constant percentage of the active pay for the rank he held. It is simple and fair. A pension would thus be updated on the basis of average weekly earnings. Although the Government has accepted this principle in respect of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act, apparently it is not prepared to accept it in this legislation. I cannot understand why. 
One of the reasons why the Government is delaying a decision on this aspect is the report by Professor Pollard. He was appointed by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government to investigate methods of updating pensions, particularly for the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  as Prime Minister had promised to expand the scope of the investigation of Professor Pollard to cover the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. The present Government did not follow through on this matter so that Professor Pollard's report covers only the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. It does not cover the DFRB scheme and his findings are probably not relevant to what we are now considering. 
Professor Pollard recommended that the superannuation payable to public servants after retirement should be updated in accordance with changes in the consumer price index. This has caused a lot of confusion. Many people thought that he recommended that adjustments should be made at the rate of 1.4 times changes in the consumer price index. That is not so. Under the Commonwealth superannuation scheme the Commonwealth pays five-sevenths of the superannuation and the fund pays two-sevenths. The only part that is updated by payments after retirement is the Commonwealth portion. In order to keep the total pension moving with changes in the consumer price index it was necessary to adjust the Commonwealth fivesevenths portion at 1.4 times changes in the consumer prices index. Professor Pollard is thus recommending that changes in Commonwealth superannuation should follow consumer price index changes. What the Jess Committee recommended - and what the Government has done in respect of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act - was that pensions should be changed in accordance with average weekly earnings. In the scheme we are considering today the demands of both simplicity and fairness make that highly desirable and I strongly recommend that the Government take action on those lines. 
I can speak personally about what I consider to be an extraordinary anomaly in this measure. The Jess Committee recommended that rather than starting service for DFRB purposes at the age of 20 years - there is no magic or purpose about that age - service should start for that purpose at the age of entry. It was never envisaged that this would apply to officer cadets who entered the Services as young as at 13 years, but as this measure is worded that result will follow. I entered the Navy at the age of 13 years. When I joined my pay was ls. a week, rising after 6 months of very good conduct - they took a rather generous view of what comprises very good conduct - to ls.3d. a week. During my 4 years' service as a naval cadet I earned a total of 16 4s. Taking from that 5.5 per cent, which is the requirement of this Act, the sum that such an officer now serving would have to contribute would be $1.80. For that contribution of $1.80 he would be entitled, after retirement, to a pension increase for the rest of his life of at least $1,000 a year. This seems to be a very generous donation. It even makes me wish sometimes that I was back in the Navy so that I could receive it. The Minister might look at this aspect. I accept that the purpose of the Bill should be generous, but this seems to me over-generous. As far as I know it was never envisaged by the Jess Committee that the date of commencement of service would go back to the age of 13 years. 
A serious area of difficulty in this Bill concerns invalidity and death benefits. Two things have happened since the Jess Committee investigated this subject. The first is that repatriation benefits have been extended to servicemen for injuries or illness not related to operational service. All servicemen are now entitled to repatriation benefits for injuries or illness associated with their service careers. This takes out one of the principal purposes of the invalidity provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. In fact the only purpose that it retains is to cover the case where a serviceman either becomes ill or is injured when not on duty. I accept that tha; provision should continue, but I think that the meshing in of the Repatriation Act and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act with respect to the invalidity pension should be looked at. Most of all, the Government should look at what it is doing with respect to the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. 
I do not know whether all honourable members remember this, but at the moment the widow of a person killed in Commonwealth employment gets his full pay, including overtime - his recent average weekly earnings - for life. These earnings are updated by a factor very close to that of the average weekly earnings. This is twice as generous as the provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. I do not know why a civilian employee should be so much more generously treated than servicemen. I think it is wrong and I can imagine it being an oversight by the Government - another example of its right hand not knowing what its left hand is doing. The whole area of death and invalidity benefits should be looked at to see whether we really need a repatriation system, a defence forces retirement benefits system, a Commonwealth employees compensation system and ordinary invalid pensions. I hope that the Government will wait with the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme until we see the result of the report by  Mr Justice  Woodward who is looking at this area. It would be rash of the Government to take too radical action before his report is received. 
Another aspect that caused the Jess Committee some concern was the question of retention of officers. It is agreed on all sides that what we want in the professional Army, Navy and Air Force are long service career officers. The experience of the Canadians and Americans whose officers had a right to retirement after 20 years' service - though in their case service commences at the age of 20 - was that they had a high attrition rate among officers at that point. The Jess Committee therefore recommended that there should be some penalty for the voluntary retirement of officers before they reached the retiring age for rank which in the case of, say, a lieutenant-commander in the Navy is 45 years. The Jess Committee recommended that the pension entitlement should be reduced by 5 per cent for every year at which an officer voluntarily retired before the laid down retiring age. I must admit that this caused some concern in the Services largely because the men misunderstood what the 5 per cent was to apply to. They thought it was an absolute 5 per cent reduction when, in fact, it was only 5 per cent of entitlement. What the Government has done is to introduce a notional retiring age of 5 years less than the ordinary laid down retiring age and to reduce the penalty to 3 per cent. I do not know what will be the effect of this generous action. I fear it may well be a very severe attrition of officers in their late 30s and early 40s, who will take their defence forces retirement benefit entitlement and establish themselves in new careers. Surely it is not the purpose of a defence forces retirement benefits scheme to encourage early retirement. We should be trying to encourage people to remain in the Services. I confess that I am concerned about this aspect. 
My final point concerns the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority. Perhaps the last part of the title is the best. The Jess Committee recommended that this Authority should be disbanded. I can accept that it will have a temporary rate while contributors are being transferred from existing schemes to the new one. This will be a difficult job and there are bound to be considerable disputes and difficulties about entitlements and rights but I do not think the Authority should have a permanent existence. I should like to see a system under which Service personnel - whose pay is computerised - are paid by their branch of the Services throughout their lives. While they are active they are paid through the Services computer system. When they retire they should continue to be paid through the Services pay system although, of course, at a proportionately lower rate depending on their length of service. Administratively this would be much simpler and clearer and, I believe, better than retaining the Authority. 
I accept the purposes of this Bill as, of course, I must. I was a signatory to and totally agreed with everything in the Jess Committee report. I believe this Bill is an honest attempt to implement the findings of the Jess Committee and the election promises of the Minister for Defence. I am not happy with the way in which it has been done. It has been cone in a muddled and confusing way and I think many amendments will be necessary as difficulties arise in its practical application. I urge the Government not to regard the defence forces retirement benefits question as settled and put it at the bottom of the priorities of the Parliamentary Counsel but to keep the Parliamentary Counsel ready at short notice to draft the many amendments that I am sure will be necessary to make this Bill work in the manner in which it is intended to work. 
It is a pity that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is not at the table for this debate for having a debate on the economy without the Treasurer being present is like putting on a production of 'Hamlet' without the first grave digger. I must say that the Treasurer sounded, as well he might, rather lugubrious when he delivered his Budget Speech. No one could describe him, as another Treasurer was once described, as the merriest tax collector since Robin Hood. For 8 months the Treasurer has laboured and he has now brought forth a number of little mice. The honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan)  mentioned the people who would benefit from this Budget. To benefit fully from this Budget one would have to be a 75-year-old Boer War veteran, still paying off his home mortgage, riding a bicycle, and preferring beer to orange juice. 
The Treasurer has been at pains to play down the importance of the Budget in controlling the economy. It is true that there is no single panacea for inflation. Inflation is roaring away now. The Treasury is assuming a growth rate of 13 per cent in average earnings this year. The consequent cost-push inflation, coupled with booming demand, sets the scene for the worst inflation in our history. The Prices Justification Tribunal will be totally ineffective to stem this flood. The Tariff cuts will have no more than a slight effect. It looks as though the Treasurer is forlornly relying on monetary measures, for the best he could find to say about his Budget was that it would not add to inflation. What a confession! We should be using every available weapon to reduce inflation which is already far beyond tolerable limits. 
The truth is that this Labor Government rather likes inflation. We are rapidly approaching the inflationary paradise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who said: Happy is the country where $30,000 is a middle income'. We will soon be there with this Government. The reason why this Government likes inflation is that, as Keynes pointed out, inflation is a mighty tax gatherer. Keynes viewed inflation as a weapon available to governments for extracting resources from the community that they would not otherwise willingly surrender. But Keynes, unlike the present Government, recognised the great dangers of inflation, the way it quite arbitrarily and unfairly redistributes income and wealth, and its bad and distorting effects on the psychology and activities of the business community. 
One can see how mighty a tax gatherer inflation is in the 27 per cent estimated rise in income tax receipts this year. This whole House - both sides of it - should condemn this Budget for its failure to contribute to combating the urgent and insidious danger of inflation. We have now got the answer to the question asked repeatedly during the election campaign; 'Where is the money coming from?' The answer clearly is: 'From inflation.' 
But if the Budget is an economic disaster area, other aspects are interesting. The Coombs Committee highlighted some wellknown and some not so wellknown anomalies in the tax structure. The previous LiberalCountry Party Government was aware of the anomalies that had accumulated, and this was one of the terms of reference of the Asprey Committee which was set up by the previous Government. This Committee has not yet reported, and it would have been better to await its report so that a comprehensive and equitable restructuring of both tax deductions and the progressive rates of taxation could be done at one stroke. But of course the Government could not wait for a just, equitable and efficient reform of the tax system, lt needs money urgently so it can at least make a pretence of meeting its election promises. Some of its increased expenditure I heartily applaud, in particular that on pensions, on education, on the cities, and on Aborigines. But it is one thing for this House to vote the money; it is quite another whether this Government has the administrative control to spend this money wisely. 
Two features have been most marked in this new Government. The first is the setting up of a myriad of committees of inquiry into every aspect of our affairs. I am not opposed to expert committees. Our Public Service has great qualities which are not always given their due. It has integrity, expertise and administrative skill. But fertility of new ideas and approaches is perhaps not its strongest point, and outside expert committees can have a vital role to perform. There are now more than 46 committees and inquiries advising 27 Ministers. If we are to have such a plethora of committees, their activities are not to overlap, their findings are to be considered and where appropriate, converted into policy - if all these objectives are to be achieved, it will need a far higher level of administrative control than this Government and in particular the Prime Minister have yet shown. I shall return to this subject in a moment. 
The second and far more sinister development has been the vast increase in the personal staffs and advisers of Ministers. These individuals, unlike the public servants whom they supersede, owe their allegiance solely to their Minister. It was this trend which in America Jed directly to Watergate. It is an indication of the trend of thought in the present Government - perhaps delusions of adequacy would be the kindest description - which led the Prime Minister to describe publicly one of his staff as his Kissinger. It was one of these advisers - being paid, I am told, $1,000 a day- who led the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  into his bundering raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. But here too it is difficult to establish the facts. There is some incomplete information on ministerial personal staffs in the Budget but nothing about the number of paid advisers. The trend is dangerous and quite foreign to the Australian system of government. 
This brings me to the question of the administrative competence of the present Government. Administratively it is a shambles. We have 27 Press secretaries daily promising instant Utopia. We have Ministers publicly stating that they will go to Caucus to get Cabinet decisions reversed. So much for Cabinet solidarity. We have at least 4 ministerial spokesmen on foreign affairs. Worst of all, we have Cabinet announcing policies, some of which are desirable, which some Ministers then take action to frustrate, perhaps inadvertently, but nevertheless effectively. 
The responsibility for this administrative shambles clearly rests with the Prime Minister. We all knew that the Prime Minister had no administrative experience and that he was taking on the biggest administrative job in the country, but I think we all thought he would be able to do better than he has done. He seems to think that words - floods of words - are a substitute for constructive thought and sustained constructive administration. He tries to cover his tracks with words as a squid does with ink. He sometimes speaks brilliantly but almost always superficially. As someone said of a British Prime Minister:  'His  chaff is quite good, all right, but his wheat is poor stuff'. 
Let us look at some the contradictions - to use the word of its favourite philosopher - in the administration of the present Government. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  have sweeping visions of desirable changes in our society. Some of their objectives are desirable, although the methods by which they are to achieve them are often very suspect. But what can scarcely be disputed is that these social objectives will be possible only if there is a sharp rise in national productivity. Yet the Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is doing all he can to prevent such a rise in production. The 35-hour week, increased annual leave, furlough, maternity and paternity leave have all been encouraged, with a consequent drop in future production. Of course a rise in productivity depends mainly on investment in plant and equipment and on technical innovation. What has the Government done here? It has cancelled the tax incentive to instal new equipment, crippled the grants for research and development, and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  between them have scared off new overseas investment. . The Australian community will pay a harsh penalty in the not-so-distant future. And faced with this contradiction, what does the Prime Minister do? Well, he doesn't actually do anything, but he talks a lot. 
Yes. And then there is the distribution of wealth. The Labor Party claims to believe, as I do, in equality of opportunity, but it also seeks to deprive anyone who takes advantage of his equal opportunity of the fruits of his efforts, and this is bound to be counter-productive. And let us look too at the activities of the Minister for Labor. He has campaigned for a 35 hour week, with attack on firms which, as he describes them, can afford it.  His  first target is the oil industry. The irony is that the oil industry has been under price control for its principal products for many years. If its profits are excessive, surely the best answer is to reduce the price of the products so that the whole community can share, rather than all the benefits going to a small group of trade unionists. The Government's policy seems to be that all Australians are equal, but militant trade unionists are more equal than others. What does the Prime Minister, the leader of the Government, do while his Minister for Labor behaves in this asinine way? Nothing. 
One could go on endlessly with these contradictions. Another is found in education. Here the Government claims to intend to raise the quality of sub-standard independent schools, and then adopts a recurrent grant system that is a positive disincentive to the improvements of standards. What school is going to improve its pupil-teacher ratio if the effect is that it will be put in a higher category and lose part of its grant. And so it goes on. 
Conservation is a joke under this Government. Do honourable members remember how enthusiastic the Labor Party was to save Lake Pedder before the election? I refer also to industrial relations. The man hours lost through industrial action in the first 5 months this year as compared with the first 5 months of last year have gone up by 54 per cent. So much for the special ability of a Labor Government to reduce industrial disturbance. The basic contradiction between our new defence policy and our new foreign policy - and the broken promises involved - will be dealt with on the debate on the defence statement. 
The muddle of this Administration - its habits of talking first and thinking afterwards - can be seen most clearly in foreign affairs, where the Prime Minister is himself the part-time Minister. Of course the Prime Minister has the unwanted assistance of several of his colleagues, who apparently felt that if the Prime Minister could make himself a part-time Foreign Minister, they could do the same. We had the situation of 3 Ministers publicly insulting the United States. We have the scene of the Minister for Overseas Trade presiding over a meeting with a North Vietnamese delegation, above an enormous North Vietnam flag, with a tiny Australian flag in the corner. So much for the new nationalism. We had the situation of the Minister for Overseas Trade feting a Chinese communist delegation and refusing to receive a trade delegation from Portugal, a country with which we have friendly relations. 
But I do not say that all the things that the Prime Minister has done in foreign affairs are wrong. He has been an impressive and articulate figure overseas. I approve of his firm restatements of Australia's independence. I approve of his opposition to the French nuclear tests, although I would have greater respect for his integrity if he displayed equal vehemence in condemning the Chinese nuclear tests. I agree with his recognition of China, though not of the typically clumsy way in which it was done. But the Prime Minister has a deplorable record of blurting out half thought out ideas. In the words of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the Prime Minister is the only man whose Achilles heel is in his mouth. Or in the reported words of the Labor Prime Minister of New Zealand: 'In New Zealand the Labor Party acts. In Australia it just talks.'  President  Theodore Roosevelt had, I think, a good maxim: 'Speak softly and carry a big stick.' The Prime Minister's performance is exactly the opposite. 
In his 9 months in office the Prime Minister has floated 2 new foreign policy ideas. The first is a vague proposal for a neutral zone in South-East Asia to include not only the countries in the Association of South-East Asian Nations but also Japan and China. It is not surprising that the proposal was received in South-East Asia with polite - and sometimes not so polite - derision, for it ignored the 2 fundamentals of a successful neutral zone. There was no community of interest among the members: Japan's and China's interests are quite different from those of the ASEAN countries. 
Secondly, the proposal appeared to rest on the assumption that neutral countries need no defences. This is obvious nonsense. As Cambodia and Laos know only too well, an expressed desire for neutrality is no defence. The price of neutrality, as Sweden and Switzerland know, is sufficient defence to deter aggression It is dishonourable for Australia, in order to withdraw its own commitment, to try to foist on the area a concept of neutrality which is unworkable and probably dangerous. The second idea - resources diplomacy - was equally ill-thought through. Of course, control of resources has always been an element of diplomacy. But the emphasis the Prime Minister now gives it seems based on a false appreciation of the scarcity of minerals and the possibility of substitution. He has been vague and contradictory in his public statements and leaks. But what he seems to have in mind is an oldfashioned producers' cartel. It would be fascinating to see him try to set it up, for two of his partners would have to be South Africa and the military dictatorship in Brazil. 
So what has this Government achieved in foreign affairs? Indonesia clearly thinks that the Prime Minister has no sense of reality or understanding of the region. On relations with Singapore too much has already been said, most of it by the Prime Minister. In Thailand the attitude was well summed up by a newspaper which said that  Mr Whitlam  should mind his own bloody business. Japan's confidence in our economic stability and common sense has been severely shaken by the capers and economic primitivism of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The Prime Minister has claimed that his recent visit to the United States restored relations with that country. Well, who damaged the relations? The Prime Minister and his colleagues. And even if relations were temporarily restored, they were immediately damaged again by the Prime Minister when he publicly gave a gratuitious insult to two recent American Presidents. And in Papua New Guinea a blundering and abrasive Minister has done great harm to the prospects of that country's peaceful progress to independence. 
It is a sorry record for only 9 months. The trouble is that this Government is still carrying on as it did in opposition, talking expansively and irresponsibly, making promises on which it cannot deliver. It got off to a superficially impressive start when the 2-man Government implemented a number of election promises by executive decision. That was the easy part. Since, then its administrative performance has been woeful, but it will take some time for this to be apparent to the general public. But this Government is so incompetent that the process cannot be long delayed. In the next election this whole ramshackle regime will surely be swept aside and this country set back on a straight course for its great destiny. 
This Bill is of great importance to every Australian. It is fundamental to our society, and each member owes it to this House to state his position clearly. I believe that a Government has a right to order killing in defence of the community. As a serving naval officer for many years and proud of this service, I could scarcely believe otherwise. But the critical question must be the necessity, the clear necessity, of such a traumatic decision. Execution, the extinction of human life in the name of the community, can be justified only by the clearest evidence of imperative need. And this I believe has not been done for any of the offences for which execution is now the penalty. In all discussion on the abolition of the death penalty, we must keep in mind not only the range of offences for which the death penalty can be inflicted - and it is far wider than murder alone - but also the purposes of punishment. They are generally held to be: The reform of the offender, the safety of the community and deterrence from similar offences. I do not accept another purpose frequently mentioned, that of retribution, although I accept that it is an all-too-human reaction. 
Turning first to the death penalty as a means of reform of the offender, I should think its shortcomings would be fairly obvious. It is difficult to reform a corpse and if a mistake is made - and even with our fine legal system, which is as good as any in the world, some mistakes are inevitable - there is no opportunity for recompense. 
A former British Home Secretary said: 
I was in the position of receiving a judge's report which told me that in the case of one man, Evans, had all the subsequent evidence been before the court, he, the judge, did not believe that a jury could have been convinced beyond reasonable doubt. I thought it right then to take the unprecedented step of giving posthumous pardon. I fear that it did not do the man much good. He had been hanged 16 years before. 
The second aim of punishment is the safety of the community. Obviously, people who are a physical danger to others must be kept under restraint. But is is a well established fact that those who commit crimes which are subject to the death penalty, even if not executed, are very unlikely to repeat such crimes after their release - much less likely in fact than the general run of the community. As someone has said, 'Murder is not a crime of the criminal classes'. It is true of course that some insane people are a continuing danger to the community, but no one as far as I know is proposing that they should be executed, so they are not relevant to this debate. 
So, I am satisfied that the safety of the community would not be affected by the abo lition of the death penalty, and the possibility of reform of the offender is obviously increased. What we are left with, then, as an argument for capital punishment, is its unique deterrent value. I believe that in all discussions so far the onus of proof has been on the wrong side. Execution by the State is such a horrible action that it cannot be justified unless it is clearly a uniquely effective deterrent. In my opinion, no such evidence exists. I do not want to lure the House into a maze of statistics, so I will content myself with saying that the statistical evidence around the world is voluminous and deals with similar areas with and without capital punishment and states that have had capital punishment and then abandoned it and in some cases restored it. Perhaps the clearest example was in Britain, where in 1957 murders were divided into capital and non-capital murders, with the death penalty applying only to capital murders. In logic, if the death penalty were a unique deterrent, one would expect, over the years, to see a decline in the proportion of capital to non-capital murders; but, over the 8-year life of the Act, no such trend emerged. 
Nowhere else, is there any evidence of any correlation between the presence or absence of capital punishment and the incidence of murders. If capital punishment were a uniquely effective deterrent to murder, there would have to be such statistical correlation. But, I repeat, there is no such evidence. I do not find these facts surprising. Murders are frequently committed as an impulse, without consideration of the consequences. Even when murders are premeditated, the murderer usually would not consider the consequences because he would not expect to be caught. In fact, the great deterrent to premeditated murder - nothing will deter the impulse murderer - would be the high probability of arrest and punishment. Here again the abolition of capital punishment would help. It is instructive to examine why the draconian 18th century laws of England were watered down - laws under which there were more than 300 offences which warranted the death penalty, starting from stealing more than 5s or cutting down an ornamental tree, and under which children aged 7 were hanged. The pressure for the reform of these laws came mainly not from humanitarians, but from property owners, who found that juries refused to convict because they felt the punishment was too cruel . for the crime, and the guilty thus received no punishment at all. I believe that we will soon face here, if we are not already facing it, the same problem with murder trials. 
Before I leave the subject of murder, there are 3 other matters I should like to refer to. Many murders are of a peculiarly horrible character, and it is often suggested that there should be degrees of murder, some carrying the death penalty, others not. Such proposals date as far back as the British royal commission of 1864, and have often been very attractive to penal reformers. Of course, as I hope is obvious, I reject the death penalty altogether, but I should like to draw the attention of the House to the very great administrative difficulties of trying to categorise murders. The British Homicide Act of 1957 tried to, and by the time it had run its 8 years of life, it had come to be regarded by almost everyone concerned with its administration as raising far more problems than it solved. I hope we do not find it necessary ourselves to wander down this sterile path. 
The safety of police is often mentioned. Here again, there is no evidence of any unique deterrent effect of capital punishment. In fact, such research as has been done shows just the opposite. A comprehensive study in America of comparable States with and without capital punishment showed no correlation with die number of murderous attacks on police. If there were overwhelming evidence, which there is not of the unique effectiveness of capital punishment as a deterrent to murders of police, we might have to think again, although I would caution that there are considerations which go deeper than the statistics. The whole effectiveness of the police force in its fight against crime depends overwhelmingly on 2 factors: First, public support and understanding; and, second, the likelihood of its detecting  and the courts then convicting those who are guilty. If the murderers of policemen received a different and more severe punishment than murderers of those who are killed in a private attempt to resist criminals and to uphold the law, I do not believe that this would, in other than the very short term, assist the public position of the police. Prison officers are another special case. It is argued that prisoners serving life sentences may, in the absence of capital punishment, make murderous attacks on prison officers, knowing they have nothing more to lose. 
There are 2 points about this; the first is that prisoners serving life sentences can, in fact, expect to be released eventually. And again, statistics bring the problem - the danger - into perspective. Although the figures are hard to obtain, it seems that over the last 30 years there have been an average of several hundred prisoners serving life sentences in Australian prisons, and over those years, the number of murders of prison officers by these prisoners has been none. In the absence of a clearly established need, I believe it would be absolutely wrong of this House to retain capital punishment as a means of protecting prison officers, because the protection would be illusory. 
I hope my position on murder is quite clear. The only argument worthy of consideration for the retention of capital punishment for murder is its unique deterrent value, and there is no evidence that this unique deterrent value exists. Capital punishment for. murder should be abolished. But these are not the only offences under Commonwealth law which carry the death penalty. There are 3 others - for wartime offences in the face of the enemy, for treason, and for the destruction of an aircraft in flight. Let us look at each of these in turn and at the relevance of capital punishment as a deterrent. 
First, the military offences. These stem from Acts of the British Parliament which have been adopted under our various service defence Acts. No one has ever been executed under these Acts by the Australian Government for treason or for military offences. There was tremendous pressure from the British Government and from the British Army in the First World War to make Australian soldiers subject to the death penalty, which in the British and French armies was the recognised preventive of desertion and mutiny and, in extreme cases, insubordination. During World War I, 335 British troops were sentenced to death. Many thousands of French soldiers were similarly executed. But no Australians were. Yet I believe it would be a brave man who, in this House, would say that our army was less effective in wartime than that of any other nation's. Incidentally, the Germans did not have the death penalty for military offences either. I believe the retention of capital punishment for these military purposes is clearly unnecessary. The bond which holds together the discipline of an efficient fighting organisation is not, and never has been, the fear of being shot by one's own side. 
There remains the question of offences against aircraft. These often involve a tragic loss of life. As far as the planting of a bomb on an aircraft is concerned, I do not believe that the death penalty will be any more effective a deterrent than it is for any other type of murder. Hijackers are a problem to which I do not pretend to have a solution. Incidentally, hijackers are not at present liable to the death penalty in Australia. The trouble is that hijackers usually receive no punishment at all, because they are quickly ransomed by their colleagues. The presence or absence of the death penalty is quite irrelevant, because they do not expect to be punished. In any case, many of them are so fanatical that they almost court death. 
The answer to hijacking surely does not lie in individual countries imposing death penalties, but in international action to deprive these outcasts of sanctuary. I feel that capital punishment - execution by the state - can be justified only if there is clear evidence that its retention is necessary for the safety and good order of the community. No such evidence exists, and I therefore believe that capital punishment should be abolished as a barbaric and unnecessary relic. I hope, after all our debate, that both in this House and in the community we will come to realise that the right way to create respect for human life is to refrain from taking life in the name of the law. And to that end this House should pass this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister recall making a statement last year that he was aware that the cancellation of the destroyer program would be a blow to the morale of the Royal Australian Navy? Has that drop in morale which he predicted in fact occurred? Is it a fact that the defence policies of the present Government, coupled with the breaking of its clear pre-election pledge to maintain defence spending at 3.5 per cent of gross domestic product, has caused a drop in morale in the 3 Armed Services? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date the figures supplied in answer to my question No. 4169 (Hansard, 29 September 1971, page 1706) by indicating what were the makes and countries of origin of the official cars supplied for the use of Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Missions overseas between 30 June 1971 and 30 June 1973, 
How many of the cars supplied in the period were of distinctively Australian manufacture. 
Very true. The Prime Minister reminds me very strongly of a similarly inept administrator I used to know who, when asked what he thought about a particular situation, snapped back: 'How do I know what I think until I hear what I say?' For the Prime Minister has a deplorable habit of blurting out half thought through ideas. He sometimes talks brilliantly, particularly on television, until he suddenly says something which reveals he has not the faintest or foggiest idea of what he is talking about. Like the thirteenth chime of a crazy clock, it casts doubt on all that has gone before. 
A good example of this, perhaps, is his performance in the field of interest rates. He did have the grace, if that is the word, to say that there were gaps in his knowledge on interest rates. I think that all who heard him on the subject would have said rather that there were gaps in his ignorance and even those gaps are hard to perceive. 
Yes. Of course the Prime Minister's administrative performance is not helped by having a 27-man Cabinet and a 93-man supervisory Cabinet - his Caucus. It would take an administrator of much greater capacity than the Prime Minister to cope with such handicaps. 
The Prime Minister seems to be dancing to music which he alone can hear. I am able to reveal what the dance is. It is called the Whitlam waltz. Watch his footwork. He takes as many steps to the left as he dares, then a few paces back to get onside with the right wing, and then waltzes round in circles until totally confused. When the Prime Minister confessed to the House the other day that he tossed and turned in bed at night, it was obvious that he was training for the Whitlam waltz. 
Why are the Prime Minister and his departments failing so deplorably in their coordination? One reason is that there are now more than 50 committees and inquiries advising 27 Ministers. There are so many interdepartmental committees that the Prime Minister is not even prepared to find out how many there are or what they are doing. Twentyseven Press secretaries are daily promising instant  Utopia.  If we are to have so many committees and their activities are not to overlap and their findings are to be considered and, where appropriate, converted into policy - if all these objectives are to be achieved - it will need a far higher level of administrative control than this Government and in particular the Prime Minister have yet shown. 
The second and far more sinister development has been the vast increase in the personal staffs and advisers of Ministers. These individuals, unlike the public servants whom they supersede, owe their allegiance solely to their Ministers. 
Yes. It was this trend which in America led directly to Watergate. It is an indication of the trend of thought in the present Government which led to the Prime Minister publicly to describe one of his staff as his Kissinger. It was one of these advisers - being paid, I am told, nearly $1,000 a week - who led the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  into his blundering raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. But here too it is difficult to establish the facts. There is in the Budget some incomplete information on Ministerial personal staffs but nothing about the number of paid advisers. The trend is dangerous and quite foreign to the Australian system of government. 
The administrative record of the present Government is a mass of contradiction. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  have visions of desirable changes in our society, which the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  immediately frustrate by destroying the future growth in productivity which alone could make these social objectives possible. Then there is the distribution of wealth. The Minister for Labour and the Prime Minister have disagreed publicly on this subject, but the Minister for Labour has campaigned for the 35-hour week, with attacks on firms which, as he describes them, can afford it.  His  first target is the oil industry. The irony is that the oil industry has been under price control for its principal products for many years. If its profits are excessive, surely the best answer is to reduce the price of the products so that the whole community can share, rather than giving all the benefits to a small group of trade unionists. The Government's policy seems to be that all Australians are equal, but militant trade unionists are more equal than others. 
One could go on endlessly with these contradictions. Another is to be found in education. Here the Government claims to intend to raise the quality of sub-standard independent schools and then adopts a recurrent grant system that is a positive disincentive to the improvement of standards. What school will improve its pupil-teacher ratio if the effect is that it will be put in a higher category and lose part of its grant. And so it goes on. 
Conservation is a joke under this Government. Do honourable members remember how enthusiastic the Labor Party was to save Lake Pedder before the election? And what about Galston? What about industrial relations? The man hours lost through industrial action in the first 5 months this year as compared with the first 5 months of last year have gone up by 54 per cent. So much for the special ability of a Labor Government to reduce industrial disturbance. This Government is bringing this country to industrial chaos. Then there is the basic contradiction between our new foreign policy and our new defence policy. But we cannot debate the statement of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  because the Government is not prepared to bring it on, when all its faults and absurdities would be revealed for all to see. And so it goes on. Shuffling Ministers around will not cure the problem. The administration of this Government is a shambles and for this the Prime Minister, and through him his Department, must take the principal blame. 
The matter of public importance proposed for discussion by the House is one of great significance because it goes to the central role, of the Government and its responsibility for the security of the community. The remarks that we have heard from the 2 Government speakers, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  have been of mind-bending superficiality. It is worth noting that the matter of public importance proposed for discussion is: 
The failure of the Government to provide more adequately for the defence of the Australian nation. 
The Minister for Defence described this proposal as frivolous. I would think that he was frivolous were his attitude not so tragic. 
The Minister made a statement on defence to this House on 22 August last. Since then, the Government has buried this item at the bottom of the notice paper. 
As my friend from Petrie tells me, this ministerial statement is listed as No. 43 on the notice paper. It is buried because the Government is frightened to have the subject of defence discussed. 
What charges are there against the Government for lack of defence preparations and what answers if any has the Government made? The first charge is that the Government was guilty of a clear deception of the community in its promise as to what proportion of our resources it would allocate to defence. On 28 November 1973, 4 days before the election for the House of Representatives, the present Minister for Defence said: 

 Mr Whitlam and I have stressed repeatedly that a Labor Government would maintain defence spending at the levels of the past few years- that is, about 3.3 to 3.5 per cent of the GNP. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has doubts about the reliability of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  So, it is fortunate that we do not need to rely on that statement alone. 
I refer next to the 'It's Time' pamphlet which, on the subject of defence, states: 
An Australian Labor Government would allocate not less than 3.5 per cent of Australia's gross national product for defence in each annual Budget. 
This year it has allocated 2.9 per cent of the gross national product to defence. This is a clear breach of a clear election promise. The Minister for Defence seemed faintly surprised that anyone should believe Labor Party policy. It is quite clear that they will not again. 
The second criticism of the Australian Labor Party's defence policy is that its whole strategic basis is fallacious. It is based on an assumption that there will be no threat for 15 years. This has often been said in the past, and it has nearly always been wrong. I take one example. In Australia, in 1931, in the depths of the depression who could possibly have foreseen that in 10 years time Australia would be at war with Germany, Italy and Japan? Certainly not the Leader of the Opposition just before the Second World War.  Mr Curtin  had this to say in a speech on 2 November 1938: 
The threatened danger is no longer as great as it was for it must be apparent to everyone that the Munich Pact has lessened the probability of a European war. 
That was said 9 months before the outbreak of the Second World War. The important thing about this aspect is that  Mr Curtin  was a quite perceptive defence critic, certainly much more perceptive than the present Minister for Defence. If  Mr Curtin  could not predict a war 9 months before it broke out, how can the present Minister for Defence say that there will be no war for 15 years. This is the whole rotten basis of our present defence strategy. It is unsound in its foundations. 
Let us turn to equipment. The 'It's Time' document states: 
A Labor Government will equip these forces with the most effective and modern weapons. 
That promise did not last long. Two months after that promise was made, the present Minister for Defence had this to say at the Industrial Mobilisation Course in February of this year:   the Services may have to accept weapons systems they regard as less than satisfactory, this shortcoming can be accepted now because of the low probability of major hostilities. 
By August, he had gone even further; the Services will get no new equipment at all. The only equipment that is still coming is that which the Government could not cancel. All the new equipment - the equipment to arm our Services in the 1980s - has been postponed or cancelled. This I believe is a gross dereliction of duty by the Government. 
If in fact the threat were low, surely this is the time we should be thinking of buying our capital equipment - at a time when our overseas reserves are so buoyant that the Government says they are embarrassing. Instead of that, for doctrinaire reasons, the Government cuts back on defence. 
I agree with some of the remarks made by the Minister for Defence, though his actions never match his words. At the same industrial mobilisation course, the Minister for Defence said:   . . it is the ability of a nation's industry to provide, or modify equipment as it is needed to meet new threats, which is the only satisfactory test of increased 'self-reliance' in defence. 
But all the measures the Minister for Defence has taken have been to decrease our selfreliance. He is dismantling all our defence industries, cutting back on our dockyard effort and destroying our aviation industry. Honourable members will remember that last May the present Minister for Defence said he would very shortly announce a plan for the rationalisation of our aircraft industry. Where is that rationalisation? Our munitions have been cut back. Our whole capacity to defend ourselves, to create our own weapons systems is being eroded by this Government and we are more and more dependent on overseas support for this vital function. 
Now I must turn to training. The ability of our forces to train realistically in peacetime is central to their efficiency. Our forces, unit for unit, ship for ship and aircraft for aircraft are second to none in the world. But the reason for this is that in the past they have been properly provided with the training equipment, resources and fuel they need to maintain a high degree of efficiency. This the Government is destroying. The flying hours of aircraft are being cut back; the ships are going less frequently to sea; and ammunition resources are being reduced. The Minister says that all this is under review. I suppose everything in this Government is under review - under review by a 27-man Cabinet and by a 93-man supervising Cabinet, the Caucus. The point is that nothing useful ever comes out of this system of review. 
Finally I turn to the question of morale. There is an enormous reservoir of devotion to duty in the armed Services and it is very alarming, remembering this devotion to duty, how many evidences of a sharp drop in morale are becoming obvious. Senior officers are resigning. These are the people who would have been the key figures in our forces in the 1980s but they, because of the policies of the present Government, are leaving the Services. 
In Townsville 2 weeks ago the Minister for Defence, in a rather embarrassing parody of Winston Churchill, said that he had not accepted his portfolio in order to oversee the dismantling of Australia's defences. If he means that, and in view of what this Government has done to the defence forces, he should resign his portfolio now. 
I feel that a great deal of the debate we have heard so far has been rather irrelevant to the issue we have to decide. Both the motion and the amendment call for a joint meeting of the Senate and this House to decide on the site of the new and permanent Parliament House. Many of the points that have been made so far really should, and presumably will, be put before that joint meeting. I reserve my remarks on the site for that joint meeting, on which the motion and the amendment agree. The amendment adds 2 suggestions - firstly, it suggests a particular site, that is, Camp Hill; and, secondly, it suggests a particular method of construction. It so happens that I agree with both suggestions. 
I do not feel it is appropriate or necessary at this time for this House to decide on those 2 points. I would like to make my personal position clear. I believe that a new and permanent Parliament House is necessary. We have to look ahead to the many years that the construction of this new House will take. We must look forward to a much larger House of Representatives and Senate. Canada, which in population terms is about 30 years ahead of Australia, has a House of Commons of 260 members. I ask honourable members to envisage what this chamber would be like with 260 members in it. The facilities for the present members of this House are almost beneath contempt. We need much better facilities. We also need proper facilities for staff. This might induce the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to provide us with that staff. He frequently uses the excuse of a lack of accommodation for his failure to provide such staff. 
What we must also look at is the consequences of choosing a new site. The retention of the present building was rejected when the House, by an overwhelming majority - I agreed with the decision - turned down the lakeside site. The only way in which the present building could be retained would be if we were to choose the lakeside site. Once either Camp Hill or Capital Hill is chosen this Parliament House must be demolished. Aesthetic considerations leave us with no other option. Let me make my position clear. I would prefer Camp Hill. The reason is a very simple one. Camp Hill was chosen by Walter Burley Griffin, the designer of this city, and every time this House has departed from the concepts of Walter Burley Griffin it has regretted doing so. For that reason, when it comes to a joint meeting of the Senate and this House, as I hope it will, I will opt for Camp Hill. 
I rise to put to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  a problem which has been concerning me for some time. I have been approached by a considerable number of sailors who served on HMAS 'Vampire' under my command from 1963 to 1965 in respect of their eligibility for repatriation benefits. HMAS 'Vampire' served during the Indonesian confrontation in Singapore between July 1964 and early 1965 and was on patrol duty in the Malacca Straits for a very high proportion of the time it spent in the area. She did in fact do more operational patrol service in that area during the Indonesian confrontation than was carried out by any other Australian destroyer or frigate. Members of the crew of the 'Vampire' were awarded the General Service Medal for those operations but are not entitled to repatriation benefits. The reason for this exclusion from repatriation benefits is that in order to qualify for such benefits one had to serve in a declared special area. The special areas for repatriation benefits during the Indonesian confrontation were the Borneo coast from 8 December 1962 to 14 December 1966 and the Malacca Straits from 7 July 1965 to 14 September 1966. The reasons for the selection of these particular dates are extremely obscure. During the period that 'Vampire' was in the area patrol duty in the Singapore and Malacca Straits was at least as dangerous and arduous as patrol duty on the Borneo coast. As far as I have been able to determine there were more incidents in the former area, that is, the Malacca and Singapore Straits, than there were in Borneo. 
It seems to me that the only reason for the selection of these particular dates for the declaration of special areas was dictated by 3 factors. The first was the desire of the British authorities - not the Australian authorities - to exclude from special awards a large number of base personnel in Singapore. I entirely agree with this. The second was the substantial numbers of Australian Army and Air Force personnel in West Malaysia who were in no way involved in the confrontation. The reason those personnel were not involved in confrontation operations was the effective patrol service of the Navy in the Malacca and Singapore Straits. The third factor which I think may have influenced the Cabinet decision was that all destroyers and frigates, with the exception of the 'Vampire', served in both the Malacca Straits and in Borneo waters and therefore personnel serving in them qualified for repatriation benefits. The fact that the 'Vampire' did not serve in Borneo waters was solely due to the accidental fact of the relative seniority of the captain of the 'Vampire' and the senior officer in Borneo waters. In fact, I repeat that the 'Vampire' did more active patrol work in the Malacca Straits than any other Australian ship and patrols in the Malacca Straits and Singapore waters were at least as dangerous as patrols in Borneo waters. 
In my view this exclusion of the crew of the 'Vampire' from repatriation benefits which are available to the crews of other ships is unfair. This Government has taken several actions to widen the availability of repatriation benefits. Now all personnel who serve for more than a 3-year engagement receive them and national servicemen who extended their service by only a few weeks receive them. The numbers involved in the crew of the 'Vampire' are relatively small. Any members still serving, of course, would qualify separately for repatriation benefits and any who subsequently served in the Indonesian confrontation or in Vietnam would also qualify. About 80 persons have been excluded from these benefits. I think it is grossly unfair and I ask the Minister for Defence to have another look at the situation .and see whether it can be corrected. I have made repeated applications to successive Ministers for Defence without success. I ask this Minister for Defence whether he can do something about it. The men involved received medals for their war service but they have been excluded from repatriation benefits and I think this is entirely wrong. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Department of Defence have a contract with a firm called ISI Pty Ltd to supply clerical staff. 
If so, was the Department paying ISI Pty Ltd between $6.00 and $7.50 per hour for staff. 
Are the normal rates for staff from a reputable staff agency about $2.35 per hour; if so, why was the Department paying so much more for its staff. 
My question is directed to  the Prime Minister. I preface it by reminding honourable members that yesterday the Prime Minister told this House that he had made strong protests in China about Chinese nuclear atmospheric testing. Did the Prime Minister receive any assurances from the Chinese about their future behaviour? If he made such a strong protest, why was there no mention of it in the final communique? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it possible to dial 000 for Emergency Services in the Chelsea (Melbourne) telephone district. 
Are coins needed to call local emergency services from a public telephone box in the Chelsea telephone district. 
Are the existing arrangements satisfactory. 
What would be the cost of modifying the system so that 000 could be dialled from the Chelsea telephone district. 
 Australia is a nation of home owners. That is the way the great majority of Australians want to live, and home ownership has been a great contributor to the stability of our society. Therefore, it is the task of government to see that in this respect the reasonable demands of the Australian citizens are met. I would suggest that this Government is failing very badly in that task. At present we have employed in the construction of new houses and flats a labour force of about 80,000. They are capable, with current techniques, of constructing about 140,000 dwellings a year. There is no doubt that the demand for new dwellings at the moment exceeds the supply, and the effect of demand exceeding supply, unavoidably, is always inflation. Not only is the effect of inflation to put up the cost of house building, but also it becomes very difficult for the lowincome family to secure suitable accommodation. These are the people that the Government is harming most although it claims to be trying to help them. What is being done by the present Government? The obvious way to match the imbalance between supply and demand is to increase production. What is the record of this Government in that area? The Government claimed that one action which would achieve some results was to cut down on the construction of city office blocks, apparently believing that this would increase the availability of labour for the construction of dwellings. This, as I am sure everyone in the Committee knows, is quite false. The materials used and construction techniques employed and the labour required in the construction of city office blocks are neither available nor suitable for the construction of suburban dwellings. To argue that by monetary or capital policies the construction of city office blocks can be reduced and therefore more dwellings constructed is thus quite false. I am sure that the Minister for Housing knows that argument to be quite false. At least that action by this Government has not actually ^educed the supply of dwellings as many of its other policies have. 
For instance, the Government has eliminated the investment allowance in respect of new investments in plant and equipment. This can do nothing but reduce the increase in productivity and therefore the supply of new dwellings. As an example of what can be achieved, between 1960 and 1972, the total employment in the construction of new dwellings rose by 30 per cent but the number of new dwellings increased by 59 per cent. All of that increase was not the result of a rise in productivity. Some was due to changes in the balance between flats and other types of dwellings. Nevertheless, a substantial part of that increase was the result of a rise in productivity following wise investment in new plant and equipment. 
The second negative effect of this Government has been the vast increase that has occurred in industrial turmoil. The Labor Government claims  to  have a special ability to reduce industrial disputes. The effect since the Labor Party came into power, as everyone knows, has been exactly the opposite. I do not need to dwell on the imminent strike by building labourers- 
State issues indeed but it has been caused by Federal policies. 
I will come to that matter in a moment. The next action of this Government to which I refer was effectively to cut the supply of labour. There is an acute shortage of bricklayers and a shortage, but not so acute, of carpenters. Some calculations have been made of what the increase in the labour supply for dwelling constructions should be. The best estimates that I have seen are for an increase of 5,500 a year. Obviously, apprentices should be encouraged as one of the main means of increasing the supply of labour. But migrants are also important. I will take one example, that of bricklayers. Currently, the most critical shortage in the building industry is in this area. The Committee can see the significance that overseas sources play in the supply of bricklayers by these figures, which are for the last 3 years. In 1970, 321 apprentices and 1,152 migrants became bricklayers in the building industry. In 1971, there were 231 apprentices and 786 migrants entering that industry of bricklayers. In 1972, new bricklayers came from 231 apprentices and 620 migrants. What this Government has done by its policy is actually to cut back on the number of migrants and so create an artificial  shortage which has increased the cost of housing. This in turn has affected all Australians who wish to have new dwellings. 
What action should this Government take? I know that the Minister for Housing is aware of some of these areas of concern. He is doing something about them. The trouble is that his actions and his policies are all too frequently frustrated by bis colleagues who do the exact opposite of what is required. Let me explain what is needed. Firstly, every effort should be made to recruit building tradesmen overseas. They should be given assisted passages under our immigration scheme. Secondly, priority should be given to adult training and retraining in building trades. In this area, nothing significant is being achieved. Thirdly - in this respect, I do give credit to the Minister because he is trying to do something about this matter - every effort should be made in respect of design and method of construction to economise in the use of scarce tradesmen. 
These are actions which should be taken. But until the Government does this and until it has increased the availability of labour and the ability to construct new dwellings, it will be deceiving and damaging the community if its policies lead to an increase in demand without an increase in supply. The inevitable result, if the Government causes this to happen for doctrinaire reasons or through mere incompetence, is that inflation will occur in the costs of building and this will harm all Australians. 
What has this Government done to control demand? The Government has made a great point of increasing low interest Commonwealth funds for welfare housing or for those types of dwellings. This is admirable. But the trouble is that Commonwealth funds have not usually reached the people who most need them. This is more so when the Government in increasing the demand for this housing without at the same time effectively restraining the demand for other types of houses has increased the cost of housing for everyone to the damage of the whole community and in particular of the people whom the Government claims it seeks to help. In order to restrict demand, because it has not been able or willing to increase supply of dwellings, the Government has raised interest rates on new housing loans. The interest rate is now more than 9 per cent and will inevitably go higher. These increases hit middle income earners very heavily. The increase in the rate of interest for housing loans will be extremely onerous and extremely damaging. What this Government has succeeded in doing in a short time in office is to exacerbate the housing shortage. It has done nothing constructive yet and it has a serious responsibility for the present difficulties with housing. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface it by saying that at his weekly Press conference yesterday the Prime Minister went back on his commitment to open government by refusing to repeat an assurance that his Ministers would answer questions put by the Leader of the Opposition on what interdepartmental committees their departments participate in. I ask: Is it true that one of the Prime Minister's closest advisers told those present at that Press conference yesterday that the Prime Minister refused to give this assurance as he had been snowed by the Public Service? In what way has the Prime Minister been snowed by the Public Service? Will he now assert his authority to ensure answers are provided as he promised on 7 November? 
asked the Minister for Air. upon notice: 
Is he ex-officio Chairman of the Air Board. 
If so, (a) how many meetings of the Board have been held since 2 December 1972 and &lt;b) how many of these meetings has he chaired. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is he ex-officio Chairman of the Military Board. 
If so, (a) how many meetings of the Board have been held since 2 December 1972 and (b) how many of these meetings has he chaired. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Is he ex-officio Chairman of the Naval Board. 
If so: 
how many meetings of the Board have been held since 2 December 1972: and 
how many of these meetings has he chaired. 
From what the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  says, if ever we get involved in a war we will certainly have lots of paper studies to throw at the enemy. But what we really want is an effective fighting force, which is what this Goverment is busily destroying. The Government obviously is frightened of a debate on this subject of defence. When we raised a matter of urgency some weeks ago, the statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  was item No. 34 on the notice paper, and since then it has sunk to No. 45. It is quite clear that the Government does not wish to have that statement debated. All that the Government will allow us is a very brief time - I think that the debate will soon be gagged - to discuss the defence estimates. 
This Government has achieved a remarkable anatomical feat of making itself a cross between a hen and an ostrich. Whenever danger threatens or' a problem arises, the Government runs around like a headless hen, although at the same time it wants to bury its head in the sand like an ostrich. A few weeks ago in Perth the Minister for Defence quoted partially and misleadingly from a paper on the strategic basis. We must consider the strategic needs of this country. It is always the tactic of Treasuries and people opposed to effective defence preparations to ask: 'What is the threat? Where does it come from? Itemise the threat. Then we can provide the defence.' The trouble is that with the lead time of effective defence forces, threats arise much faster than the equipment, troops and trained manpower can be provided. 
The Minister for Defence claims that he is able to look ahead 10 or 15 years. Let us look at what happened in 1931. Who then could possibly have foreseen that within 10 years Australia would have been at war with Germany, Italy and Japan? Certainly not the Australian Labor Party. As late as 1938 it was saying that references to preparation for war were hysterical propaganda. Now the Government is talking about the defence of the mainland. What a defeatist policy. If we have an effective defence policy the question of the defence of the Australian mainland will not arise. Surely the establishment of an effective defence policy should be the object of the Government. The Government talks about a period of strategic peace. I find it difficult to imagine any era which is likely to be more turbulent than the next 10 years or so. One thinks of the energy crisis and the problems which it will create. America is reliant on the Middle East for about 8 per cent of its oil. Japan and Western Europe are almost totally dependent on the Middle East for their oil. Australia produces about 60 per cent of our oil requirements, and for most of our other oil requirements we rely also on the Middle East. 
The Arab countries - the countries in the Organisation for Petroleum Exporting Countries - are quite clearly prepared and determined to use their bargaining power ruthlessly. What will happen? Two or more" things seem obvious. Firstly, Japan is likely to be thrown into the arms of Russia through its likely dependence on Siberian oil. America, probably through the development of Alaskan oil, will be self sufficient for oil in a few years. Britain may well be a net oil exporter through North Sea oil by the early 1980s. What is likely to happen is that the OPEC countries - the Arab countries - will realise that there is a terminal date in relation to their effective ability to exploit the situation, and therefore the next 10 years are likely to be extremely turbulent. 
If we had any sense we would be not only making extra defence preparations, but also encouraging in this country exploration for oil which the extraordinary policies and the economic primitivism of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  have virtually stopped in Australia. Also, it is quite possible that the Suez Canal will be opened within the next few years, and this will provide an opportunity for the Russian Black Sea fleet to operate in the Indian Ocean. This is a factor that we cannot or should not ignore, but the Government has effectively ignored it by delaying the development of the Cockburn Sound base in Western Australia which surely common sense dictates should not be delayed; it should, if possible, be speeded up. 
In regard to equipment, in its notorious document entitled 'Its Time' which was pub:lished before the last election, the present Government promised that the defence forces would have excellent equipment. On 12 February this year - 2 months later - the Minister for Defence, at an industrial mobilisation course, said: 
The Services may have to accept weapons systems they regard as less than satisfactory. 
By Budget time in August, virtually all orders for new equipment were cancelled, and now we find from the admissions that have been very grudgingly dragged out of the Minister that not only has he cancelled all the long term orders for equipment, but also he is trying to delay purchasing equipment for which we are already committed. He is talking about trying to cut down on the purchase of light observation helicopters for the Army and on the orders for anti-submarine helicopters for the Navy. If the Government can cut down on our defence equipment it will do so. It will defer everything and cancel everything. This is equipment which our defence forces will need not immediately but which will make them effective forces in the 1980s. I repeat that that is a period into which neither this Minister nor any Minister can possibly foresee. 
Then there is the question of our operational readiness and the efficiency of our forces on which our training depends. We have seen a cutback in the fuel allowance for the Navy and in the flying hours of aircraft. In regard to the Navy, the Minister for Defence in his recent statement said that the equipment in the Navy would not be below a level which seriously - I repeat, seriously - impaired the capability of the Navy. Apparently he expects that it will significantly impair the capability of the Navy. In fact, in an earlier statement the Minister gave a very good summing up of the sort of Navy that this Government is producing. In his ministerial statement in August he said: 
The naval forces can assist in coping with any intrusions into territorial waters and fishing and resource zones. 
That is a limited role for a proud and effective Navy if ever I have heard one. In regard to defence infrastructure, there is the question of our ability to be self reliant. Again, before and just after the last election the present Government was making brave words about our self reliance. What is it doing? It is cutting back on our dockyard labour and dockyard efficiency. It is also cutting back on armament production and is creating chaos in our aviation industry. The Government is seriously impairing our ability to look after ourselves and is making us more and more reliant on our overseas sources of supply. All this cannot but have an effect on the morale of the Services. It is a great tribute to their devotion to duty and their loyalty that they have not been more affected than they have been by the efforts of this Government. 
I should like to turn very briefly to one other matter. The Minister for Defence is making a study of the integration of the defence group of departments. I support this concept but it has not yet been achieved. In the meantime the Service Boards retain their statutory responsibility for the running of their Services. But the Minister, who is their political head, is taking no part in this statutory responsibility. Until the change is made he should ensure that the existing system runs. When this change is made I hope it will be to convert the Department of Defence into a proper professional department. While the 3 Service Departments had statutory responsibility for the running of their own Services it was acceptable that the Department of Defence should merely be a co-ordinating body. If we transfer, as I believe we should, the statutory responsibility to that Department it must become a proper professional body. If we try just to graft onto a basically civil department small Service accretions it will do a great deal more damage to the morale of the Services than anything that this Government has yet achieved. I should like to give the Minister that warning, because it is a very serious matter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he, in May 1969, move an amendment to the Commonwealth Aid Roads Bill 1969 regretting the Government's continuing refusal to plan expenditure of an amount at least equivalent to the proceeds of all automotive fuel taxes on roads and associated facilities. 
If so, does he plan to ensure that the new Commonwealth Aid Roads Bill will follow the principles he enunciated in 1969. 
The time that this House has spent on the vital subject of defence under this Government has been ludicrously small. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  made a statement on defence in August. This has never been debated and it now lies buried as No. 43 on the notice paper. Then the debate on the defence estimates was gagged by the Government after only 3 Opposition members had spoken, and even these three- 
As the honourable member for Griffith said, they had only 10 minutes each and 10 minutes is a ludicrously short time in which to develop an argument on such a complex subject as defence. 
In my brief remarks on the defence estimates I touched on a subject of very great importance - the amalgamation of the defence group of departments. I will elaborate my remarks now. I should like to make clear at the outset that I am in favour of such an amalgamation, if it is done properly. There is no suggestion, I hope, on either side of the House, of the removal of the distinctions between the 3 armed Services. This has been tried in Canada, and it has been a disaster with no redeeming features whatever. But even though we must keep the separate Services, we must integrate their administration and operational control. At the moment each 
Service Board has statutory responsibility for its own affairs. The authority of the Department of Defence is very tenuous, being based largely on a letter written more than 10 years ago by the then Prime Minister. Of course the Department of Defence has greater influence because of its control of the ear of the Minister. But the statutory contradictions remain. 
The existing organisation was perhaps adequate when the role of our armed Services was to make contributions to assist the forces of major allies. Then the major contacts were between our Services and the corresponding Service authorities of other countries, with our Department of Defence acting as a sort of secretariat. With the withdrawal of major friendly powers from our region, this pattern no longer fits the requirements. Our forces are likely to have to act alone, and they must have firm central control. But this control must be professional - as it is of course in other departments controlling professional disciplines, such as the Department of Health, or the Department of Foreign Affairs or the Attorney-General's Department. If the Government merely expands the present basically non-professional Department of Defence, with a token infusion of Service personnel as advisers at subordinate levels, it will be totally rejected by the Services and the result on Service morale will be catastrophic. 
Some information is gradually becoming available about the way this reorganisation is tending. My remarks on this subject are, I can assure the Minister for Defence who I am glad to see is in the House, intended to be constructive, aimed at avoiding some highly undesirable consequences that I can foresee. It is obvious that the Government is thinking in terms of having a 2-man team - a diarchy of one military and one civil member - at the top of the Department of Defence. If the system is to work, it must be made clear by statute that they have joint control of the affairs of the Department of Defence. Sole control by either would be intolerable. 
There are a number of points I should like to make about this. Firstly, I should have preferred a broader based committee - a Defence Board - instead of a diarchy, but this is an option that apparently the Government has evidently already rejected. Secondly, each member of the diarchy must clearly be responsible for one special function - the military member for operational matters, the civilian member for financial matters. But for the remaining functions, it is essential that they be jointly responsible - and this must be clearly spelled out in the Act. Thirdly, these posts will not be easy to fill. The military member must be an effective operational commander, with the confidence of all three services. The civil member must have experience, understanding and sympathy for military problems. In the past, the position of Secretary of the Defence Department has been relatively unimportant, but with the transfer of much greater responsibility to the new Department, the Government will have to look for Secretaries of outstanding calibre and experience. 
Underneath this diarchy, there will, I understand, be something like 8 separate divisions, covering such matters as operations, intelligence, personnel, finance and production. Each of these divisions, except operations and finance, will have to have integrated civil and professional staffs, but I believe that the heads of at least 4 of these divisions must be professional Service personnel. Anything less would be an outrageous insult to the very high degree of professional skill and experience that exists in our armed services. The divisions which should have military heads are fairly obvious, but I should like to draw particular attention to Intelligence. I have drawn the attention of the House before to the undesirability of having the Head of the Joint Intelligence Organisation automatically a Foreign Affairs officer. Although there are some notable exceptions, diplomats are, by background and training, usually unsuitable as intelligence officers. 
The reorganisation clearly must also tidy up the present chaotic system of operational command. The  Chairman,  Chief of Staff Committee, now has no command power. Each Service is commanded separately. The new Chief of Defence Staff clearly must have effective operational command of our armed services, working through the Chiefs of Staff of each service in peace time, but with the right in wartime to issue orders direct to Unified Commanders - Commanders who are in charge of all armed services involved in  a  particular operation. This must be laid down in the Act. I should be very reluctant to see the Chiefs of Staff Committee given wider responsibility than for operational matters, for this would subvert the chain of responsibility through the functional divisions of the Defence Department. 
I should like to make a number of other points briefly. If the reorganisation is properly done, we should be able to eliminate the plethora of Committees which have clogged defence administration in recent years. One committee which must remain, though, is the Defence Committee, through which the Services, the Defence Department, Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister's Department and the Treasury get together to consider defence problems jointly. I believe the Minister for Defence must be the  Chairman  of this Committee, probably wit hthe Chief of Defence Staff and his  deputy.  The three armed Services now have different organisations. Until recently, the Army was organised on a geographical basis, the Air Force on a functional basis, and the Navy on a mixture of both. Now the Army has changed to a functional basis, but a different one to the Air Force - and one that was actually tried and rejected by the Air Force. 
I believe the three Services should be organised on the same functional basis, with the corresponding functional commanders of each service co-located. In this way we would certainly get improved co-operation and economies. I have no time to discuss political responsibility, except to say that this House will surely insist on having sufficient Ministers - probably functional - to ensure that political responsibility can be sheeted home. This is a complex subject, but I urge the Minister to consider the points I have raised, for future Service morale and efficiency depend crucially on the decisions he will be asked to make in the near future. 
The Bills we are considering are a perfect example of how an incoming Government should not go about complex legislation. I do not mean so much the formal procedure, although it would have been better if the Government had dared to have a debate on the White Paper on the Australian health insurance program before it prepared the Bills we are considering. But the real error lies further back. When in Opposition, the Australian Labor Party, desperately looking for a health program of its own with which to try to counter the very successful national health scheme of the Liberal-Country Party Government, became aware of some research work by 2 economists, Doctors Scotton and Deeble. Without proper consideration the Labor Party grasped their scheme, loudly trumpeted its supposed advantages - and now it is stuck with it. 
Yes. Its great defect is that it is an economists', almost an accountants', scheme and does not tackle the basic requirement of an alternative health scheme - how to improve the standard of health care in Australia. I do not want to give the impression, despite the remarks of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  that I believe that health care is solely a matter for the medical profession. The United States of America, where the pattern of health care has been almost entirely dictated by the medical profession, is a salutary example of the danger of that course. What a sensible government does, what the Liberal-Country Party Government did, is to balance the views and interests of all those involved in health care and in particular the interests of the patients. And this is what this Government, in this Bill, has conspicuously failed to do. 
The health scheme this Bill seeks to supersede has been outstandingly successful. It is not perfect - no purely human institution ever has been or ever will be - but it has been progressively improved, and the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has outlined the form in which the Opposition would like to see the next stage of improvement. Now all this is to be cast away. And for what? It is to be cast away for an accountants' scheme, for a political gimmick, that will do little to improve the standard of health care and a great deal to harm it! What this House should do is to examine critically all the changes proposed in this Bill, and to identify the areas where it makes improvements - and these are remarkably few. Even where there are alleged improvements, such as the increased grants to hospitals or the bringing of pensioners into full membership of the health scheme, this House should satisfy itself that these improvements would not be better achieved by simple amendments to the existing National Health Act. 
So, let us examine the improvements claimed by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and his supporters. The Minister frequently has trumpeted claims that his scheme will improve coverage, and that one million people are not covered under the present scheme. I heard an interjection to that effect a few minutes ago. There are a number of points to be made about this. Firstly, the Minister is attempting to confuse in the public mind the question of health cover with the question of insurance cover. All Australians are now covered for health care. No Australian is refused reasonable health care because of lack of means or lack of insurance. Secondly, who are these people who are not insured under the present health scheme? The Minister certainly does not know; he does not even seem to know their total numbers. The figures he quoted in his White Paper are misleading, for - although the Minister denied it - the substantial number covered under the Repatriation Act were excluded. 
I think it would be fair to say that about 92 per cent of the community are now insured. Of the 8 per cent that are not, some, of course, are very wealthy people who choose, in effect, to carry their own insurance. Forcing these people to join the health scheme, bearing in mind that 60 per cent of benefits they will receive will come from Consolidated Revenue, is of very doubtful social advantage. Others who are not now insured are transients and itinerants who will be at least as difficult to pick up under the Government's tax scheme as under the present scheme. It is worth noting that something like 3 million people who could be in the work force do not render tax returns, and that the Deeble report admits that only 80 per cent of the community would be covered initially under the Labor scheme. Even in Britain, which has had a tax financed health scheme for a quarter of a century, nearly 5 per cent of the community still are not covered. In fact, the Government's claim of wider coverage is both false and misleading. 
The second claim trumpeted by the Minister - with snide comments on the number of private funds - is that it would be more efficient. The 1969 Nimmo Committee had this to say on this subject: 
The Committee found no support at all for the often expressed view that the number of different organisations adds to the cost of the scheme. We examined the operations of a large number of friendly societies and closed funds and found that their service to contributors was extremely good and that they had been the most successful organisations in keeping management expenses within proper limits. 
From all experience here and overseas, it will be very surprising - almost unbelievable - if a government department in fact provides cheaper and more efficient service than a private insurance firm. Further, the friendly societies and small union or industry based funds provide for their members personal and prompt service which a government department certainly could not match. Worst of all, of course, health insurance would be largely socialised, and freedom of choice would be eliminated. So the second claim of the Minister - that of increased efficiency - is clearly invalid. 
The third advantage loudly trumpeted by the Minister is that it will be more equitable, because the contributions, instead of being a flat rate which is tax-deductible, will be a proportion of taxable income. Whether this is more equitable or not depends on how one views the principles of progressive income tax. But, however one views these principles, one must bear in mind that 60 per cent of the cost of health benefits will be paid by Consolidated Revenue towards which the higher income earners pay a disproportionate contribution, I draw this to the attention of the honourable member for Diamond Valley - and even the Minister cuts out the progressive health levy - the super tax - at taxable incomes of a little over $11,000 per year, although this of course is only in the first year. The $150 limit may well be lifted sharply in future years. So, the third claim of the Minister - that of increased equity - is debatable, to say the least. 
The fourth advantage claimed by the Minster is that his new scheme will be no more expensive than the present scheme - and he produces calculations to prove it. Knowing the history of gross costing errors by the Minister and his staff in the past - I am sure honourable members will remember the recent embarrassing confessions before the Medical Fees Tribunal - and faced with this past, it is inevitable that the House will want to look very closely at his new calculations. And they are an interesting study! An economic and market research firm, Philip Shrapnel and Co. Ltd, recently carried out a detailed costing of the present and proposed health insurance schemes. It concluded that the Minister has underestimated costs by nearly $300m in the first year, that it would cost $380m more than the existing scheme in the first year, and that costs under the Hayden scheme will escalate sharply. 
How did the Government come to make such a gross costing error? It seems that it forgot that pensioners were being brought fully into its scheme, and merely projected the present discounted costs of pensioner services, and also failed to allow for the inevitable sharp increase in pensioner visits to specialists. A mere error of $300m a year! What crass ineptitude! But how typical of this Government. I have been through the arguments that have been advanced in favour of the Hayden health scheme. None is valid. None gives a reason for dismantling the present highly successful national health scheme, with the inevitable chaos during the changeover. But this is not the worst. As well as having no real advantages, the Hayden health scheme has many very serious disadvantages. I should now like to examine these. 
The first is the change in the method of payment of medical expenses and the clear preference of the Minister and his advisers for bulk billing. Bulk billing does have administrative advantages, but we are discussing a health scheme, not an accountants' scheme - and the effects of bulk billing are likely to be serious. It changes the whole nature of the scheme away from a reimbursement scheme, where the patient has a responsibility for his own medical expenses for which he is then substantially reimbursed. This not only provides a check on overutilisation - either by doctors or by patients - but also ensures the vital function of patient audit, that is, a check by the patient that the medical service has actually been performed. Without these checks our utilisation of health resources will be much less efficient. 
The Hayden health scheme also will change markedly the balance between public or standard beds and intermediate or private beds. How great this shift in balance will be depends on how many people will be prepared to take out private insurance to cover the cost of intermediate or private ward care - likely to cost something like $125 a year - as well as paying a super tax of 1.35 per cent of their taxable income for standard ward care. I do not think many people will do this. 

 Mr McKenzie They will not need cover. 
What will happen then? It is quite certain that there will be a substantial shift in bed use, and this will have serious consequences. There inevitably will be a shortage of standard ward beds for many years, and poorer people, who in some States - for example, Victoria - have had special rights to beds in public hospitals, will now have to compete for these beds with richer elements in the community. So much for the Labor Party's special consideration for the disadvantaged. 
In the case of the private hospitals, many of which are of outstanding quality, they will have to change their whole nature by setting up standard wards. This in turn will mean much greater Government control, and the destruction of much that has made these private hospitals great. A statement by the Board of the Freemasons Hospital sums the problem up well. It said: 
There appears to be no practicable way in which a hospital of the size of the Freemasons Hospital can combine public and private beds. The overhead and administrative problems involved, when dealing with a mixture of patient classifications in a total of about 140 patients, become out of proportion to the possible benefits. 
Accordingly, it is submitted that the White Paper scheme in its present form is impracticable to operate, so far as it relates to the Freemasons Hospital, and likely in the ultimate event to result in endangering the continued existence of this hospital. 
I add that this hospital is one of the finest in Australia. How great the danger of destruction of the private hospitals in can be seen from the Bill. Clause 34 (2) permits private hospitals to apply to the Minister for permission to open standard wards, and this they will most certainly have to do under the Hayden scheme. Clause 34 (3) provides that the Minister will determine how many beds should be taken over - the whole lot if he so decides - and clause 34 (4) provides that the Minister will decide how much the private hospital will be paid for taking in free standard ward patients. The Minister decides; the Minister determines; the Minister decides. What a perfect program for the takeover of private hospitals by the Federal Government - for the socialisation of private hospitals. But we should not be surprised at this. The Minister has been quite frank about it. In the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 6 September 1972 he said: 
The Labor Party is a socialist party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned  is  for the establishment of public enterprise. 
Then there is the likely decline in the standard, and increase in the costs, of hospital care which will be caused by the change in the balance of hospital bed usage, coupled with change in the method of payment of the present honorary staff in public hospitals. At the moment, the honorary service in public hospitals is financed by the private sector. If this private sector is sharply reduced, and the specialist staff in public hospitals is simultaneously put on sessional payments or salary, the effect on the standard of medical care will be very serious. The specialists will become in effect salaried workers, with all the defects that occur when doctors are salaried. The results will be, of course, a lowering of the standard of care. Patients will be upset by unnecessary delays and waiting lists for hospital beds will lengthen. This may seem a gloomy prediction, but it is amply justified by all experience of such hospital care. 
These are, to me, decisive reasons why this House should not contemplate accepting this ill-thought-out Labor health scheme. But I do not want to give the impression that there are no good points in the Labor health scheme. I approve of the bringing of pensioners fully into the health scheme, and I approve of the increase in the daily bed rate subsidy to hospitals. But both these could, and should, easily be incorporated into the existing health scheme. Incidentally, the increase in the bed subsidy is not as great as the Minister suggests. He correctly quotes the present rate as $2 a day for insured non-pensioner patients, but the special account payments increased the average daily benefit per bed for nonpensioner patients as at 30 June this year from $2 to $5.33 a day. 
The elimination of the special account payments by the present Bill would have another unfortunate consequence. Under the existing health scheme members of a fund may be transferred to the special account, where the Government pays their benefits because of a pre-existing complaint, or chronic illness, or hospital stays in excess of a specific period - about 84 days - in any one year. Now the special account is to go, and long-term or chronic patients, who have insured themselves for private or intermediate ward accommodation, will be thrown out of this accommodation after about 3 months. This is iniquitous. 
All the uproar and all the divisiveness, which have been caused by this ill-considered health scheme have diverted attention from real areas of health need. The Bill does nothing, for instance, to improve the standard of nursing homes or their admission, rehabilitation or discharge policies. It does nothing to solve the problem of families who are faced with crippling bills for elderly relatives in nursing homes which charge more than the standard fees. It does nothing to improve certainty in medical charges. It reduces the availability of benefits for para-medical services from many health funds. It is high time we stopped wasting our effort on this illconsidered, counter-productive, ramshackle and wasteful Labor health scheme, and got down to the real task which this Government is evading - how to improve the standard of health care of the Australian people. 
The Opposition supports the concept of the Hospitals and 
Health Services Commission although, as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has pointed out, we wish to see that its method of operation takes full account of the rights and responsibilities of State governments and of this Parliament. Despite the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  we must never forget that governmental responsibility for health care is a partnership between the Federal and State governments and that the responsibility of this Parliament under section 51 of the Constitution is limited to the provision of pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits and medical and dental services. It is important to note that this Parliament's responsibility in the hospital field, for instance, is for benefits, not for the organisation or running of the hospital system. This is the responsibility of the State governments. It is true that the Federal Government can attempt to widen its power by using grants under section 96 of the Constitution but I believe this is an improper use of this power. 
It is against this background of the constitutional position that this Hospitals and Health Services Commission must be considered. This Bill does not - it cannot - create any new powers for this Parliament. Anything this new Commission could do could already be done by the Health Department under appropriations by this House. For instance, $9m has already been approved under the community health program. It is important to recognise this, because some rather strident opposition to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission has been based on this misunderstanding. I welcome this Commission, as I welcomed the Social Welfare Commission, because it brings the operations of government out into the open but, as the honourable member for Hotham has pointed out, we do have some reservation about the way in which this particular Bill is going to achieve these ends. I am very glad to see there is to be an annual report tabled in Parliament but this is not the total need of information of this House. The information in this annual report may be up to 16 months stale, and this House must have more up-to-date information than that. In the Social Welfare Bill passed by this House a little time ago, section 16, referring to the Social Welfare Commission, provides: 
The Commission shall furnish to the Minister such reports as the Minister requires and may furnish such other reports as the Commission thinks fit. 
Where the Commission furnishes a report to the Minister, the Minister shall as soon as practicable cause that report to be laid before each House of the Parliament. 
There is no such provision in the Bill we are considering. I believe there should be and I would appreciate the Minister when he replies to this debate explaining to this House why there is not. 
Even that is not enough because we well know that this Government has the habit of burying inconvenient reports on the notice paper so that this House cannot debate them. If we are to have this Commission working effectively, there must be arrangements whereby this House can exercise appropriate control and have a right to debate the matter if it sees fit. That is the reason for the suggestion by the honourable member for Hotham that where this Hospitals and Health Services Commission has the power to make grants under the approval of the Minister, the organisations to which the grants are given should be prescribed organisations so that the Minister would have to approve the grants by regulation which could if desired then be debated by the House. This, I believe, is the central measure of financial control by this House. The honourable member for Hotham mentioned, of course, the ways in which the whole pattern could be distorted. Although I believe the intentions of the Minister are good with regard to community health centres, for instance, it is possible that at some stage he may have an undesirable bias. We should like to have the power to see what is happening in time to prevent it. I believe this is the right of this House. 
There is another amendment which, I am glad to say, has been accepted by the Government. It is to clause 5 (1), which is a very important clause. It gives the Commission power, with the approval of the Minister, to make grants upon such conditions, if any, as the Commission determines, of financial assistance out of the moneys of the Commission to State, Territory, regional local government and charitable organisations, and to other persons involved in health care or in research related to health care. This obviously transgresses in the field which is rightly regarded as the field of the State health departments, and therefore we regard it as of great importance that the Federal Minister, before giving his approval to such grants, should request the appropriate State Minister of Health to consult with him on the matter and to have regard to the views expressed by that Minister. It is a most important step and I am very glad that the Government has accepted it. 
I should also like to direct attention to clause 5(1) which involves research into better methods of delivery of health care. I believe that this is a very important area. The costs of health care are becoming of increasing concern throughout the world. There is almost no limit to what a government can spend on health care. It can spend the entire gross national product and still have unsatisfied demand. But one of the difficulties of our present system of health insurance and health care - which is not in any way cured by the Hayden scheme - is the fact that there is little overall cost control. Health care is too compartmented. One has the situation where the local general practitioner prescribes drugs for which he knows the patient does not have to pay, except for a token payment when he receives the drugs. The doctor does not have to pay fo them and there is very little incentive to economical prescribing. I think the reports of the Joint Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits bore that out. 
That is not the only problem. Hospital care is another area where the patient is not going to pay, the doctor is not going to pay and there will be little incentive to economising in the use of hospital care, which is an important section of our health costs. Finally, of course, the hospitals have no responsibility, generally, for the after care of the patient. Inevitably, some patients are discharged in conditions that make their return to hospital, at great cost to the community, almost inevitable. I believe that we should be feeling our way towards some system which will provide overall cost accounting and achieve the most economical use of our available health resources. 
The Americans, who have a much more serious deficiency in their health care than we have, have developed health maintenance organisations of which the best known, of course, is the Kaiser-Permante scheme, which is a capitation scheme which gives total health care. There are many advantages in such a scheme, but it would be useful in Australia only because it is a profit making system. That is the incentive on the members of the Kaiser-Permanente scheme to keep their health costs low. They must service the total health care of an individual for an annual charge. If they can do it for less than the charge, they make a profit which they share. Obviously, this would be workable in Australia only if it were an alternative to the ordinary fee for service system. I believe that in our major centres such an alternative system would be highly desirable and would provide a lead in reducing the rapidly increasing costs in health care which are occurring throughout the world. 
I would urge the Hospitals and Health Services Commission to have an early look at the system and judge its application to Australia. There are difficulties in implementing it. Our system of pharmaceutical benefits and our hospital insurance schemes do not lend themselves easily to such a system being introduced, but I believe that there are ways around this. As a further point - I was interested in the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  in relation to this - it is worth noting that such an alternative system will fit much more easily into the present health scheme than it would into the proposed alternative Hayden scheme. However, that is slightly off the subject of this debate. 
What we are dealing with tonight is the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. As I have said, the Opposition supports the concept of this Commission. We have reservations about whether it will adequately protect the rights and responsibilities of the States and, even more importantly, the rights and responsibilities of this House. We would wish to see a further examination of this Bill, probably in the Senate, but apart from that we accept the concept of the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Were passengers arriving at Tullamarine Airport in BOAC 747, Flight 812, on 5 September 1973, delayed nearly two hours in clearing customs and immigration. 
If so, what was the reason for this delay. 
Are there separate immigration desks for returning Australian citizens so that they are not unnecessarily delayed by the more extended procedure necessary for migrants; if not, why not. 
Did one of the passengers on Flight 812 collapse during the wait. 
Were adequate first-aid and medical facilities available; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did recommendation No. 62 of the 1971 Senate Report on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in Australia state that residential hostels for handicapped persons of all ages be subsidised by the Commonwealth on a $2 for$1 basis for capital expenditure, and on a $2 for $1 basis for the salaries of approved staff. 
Does either the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act or the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act provide capital subsidy to organisations to enable hostel accommodation to be provided for handicapped adults, aged between 21 and 65, who are so severely physically handicapped that they cannot be employed in a sheltered workshop. 
Does any other Act of the Australian Parliament provide such assistance. 
Is it a fact that the Spastic Children's Society has had to defer further planning for a hostel at Keilor, Victoria, which could now be meeting the needs of 60 severely handicapped adults if only a subsidy were available. 
The remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  were almost totally irrelevant to the purpose of the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. The Prime Minister listed an impressive array of consultation with various authorities. But what he did not say was that he has the agreement of the important elements which he needs - the State parliaments and the State Premiers. There was no mention of them agreeing. He merely said that they had been informed. 
No, there was no precise reference. The Prime Minister said - and I think I can quote him accurately - that this consultation had taken place with the Premiers and that none of them had protested about this legislation being introduced. 
No. 
There is a very great difference between the principle, with which I entirely agree, and the detailed Bill which must be subject to very close examination. The Prime Minister of all people should know the difficulty of getting referenda through if there is any significant opposition. It is most important that the change to the Constitution envisaged in this Bill, which I believe should command widespread support, should be thoroughly examined and that the minor areas of dispute should be removed before it is put to the people. Otherwise a very desirable change to the Constitution will be unnecessarily lost. 
I accept that our Constitution, which was framed in the balmy days of Queen Victoria, is in many areas obsolete. There must be some revision of the division of powers between Federal and State authorities. What this House must do, and I hope what the Constitutional Convention will do, is determine where the political responsibilities should lie and what constitutional powers should be allocated to deal with these responsibilities. This must be a 2- way process. Section 51 (xxxvii) of the Constitution as it stands at present allows the Commonwealth to make laws on matters which the States have referred. But the usual attitude taken by State Premiers, and I think they take this attitude advisedly, is that legal uncertainties in this paragraph render the course of reference most hazardous. For example, it is not certain whether a reference can be made on terms and conditions and the States are far from certain whether once a power has been handed over it will be gone for good. 
I accept that the proposed referendum attempts, probably successfully, to deal with these problems. It makes a very considerable attempt to solve these problems. But I think we should be quite certain it does before we put it to a referendum and ask the people to make a decision. We should ascertain whether it is adequate to meet the problems of the States or whether the States would still have objections and worries. The other point is that if this process of transfer and rationalisation of powers is to work effectively it must be carried out on a 2-way basis. The Federal Government must have the power to delegate its powers to the State governments. I suggest that the most important area is in the field of sales tax. Again this referendum proposal meets, or apparently meets, these requirements. I have no objection to the principle of the proposal. My worry is to ensure that the proposal, which I believe is most important, is thoroughly investigated before it is put to the people so as to remove unnecessary objection. Therefore I believe that the referendum should be deferred, as is suggested in this amendment. 
Apparently it is proposed that the constitutional alteration proposed in this legislation should be put with 4 other referenda at the Senate election which presumably will be held in May. We have discussed in this House for some time the other referenda proposals. Firstly we have discussed the grossly misnamed Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill. This legislation is quite blatantly a vehicle for allowing ,the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to gerrymander the electorates. The Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill is sound in basic concept in that it seeks to provide money to local government. However, it is clearly aimed at destroying the State governments. I agree with the purpose of the other 2 Bills - the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill and the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill. But in each case I disagree with the method by which this purpose is to be achieved. These 4 referenda proposals are doomed to failure. 
I have noted the time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Isaacs that the Bills to which he has referred have already been disposed of by the House. 
Quite so,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
This debate on the Address-in-Reply has in many ways been an extraordinary one. It is customary for this debate to be wideranging. But even allowing for this, it is noteworthy how unwilling Government supporters have been to discuss the amendment which is before the House. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  who has just spoken is an excellent example of this. So I would like to lead honourable members opposite gently back to a little relevance. The first charge in the indictment is that the Government has 'created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it'. From the behaviour of honourable members opposite it is clear that they cannot dispute this charge. But we should not allow a 'guilty' plea- or a plea of 'mea culpa', as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  might say in his legal dog Latin. We cannot allow the Government, like the Watergate burglars, to attempt in this way to escape full examination of the offence. 
Let us look at the rate of inflation. It is often claimed by the Government that our inflation is an imported complaint. It is true that world inflation rates have risen sharply in recent years. But inflation has been around throughout our existence as a nation. Under Liberal Party financial management it was effectively contained. In the period 1960-1971 we had an average annual inflation rate of 2.8 per cent. We were very low down on the list of comparable countries - lower than the United States of America, lower than Britain and lower than nearly all the European countries from Spain to the United Kingdom. An authoritative survey by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development had this to say in 1973 on the period of Liberal rule: 
Australia entered the 1970s with an economy stronger and more dynamic in many respects than a decade earlier . . . Through most of the 1960s full employment and price stability were well maintained, and the rate of economic growth accelerated. ... So immense are the continent's natural resources, and so well geared to their development appear to be the skills and energies of the people, that the next 2 decades could well be a period of expansion more vigorous than the two that have passed. 
That was what it was like when we left office. When the present Labor Government assumed office at the end of 1972 inflation was running at an annual rate of 4.5 per cent. In its first year of this Government's rule - 1973 - it shot up to 13.2 per cent, and it has shown no signs of slackening. Under the mismanagement of this Government we no longer have one of the best controlled economies in the world. Instead, we have one of the worst - worse than the United States of America, worse than Britain. Only four of the OECD countries are doing worse than we are. Our inflation is of South American proportions. In fact it is exactly the same as Brazil's. If the rate to which this Government has allowed inflation to rise is allowed to continue, a dollar at the time of birth of a child born this year would be worth ic by the end of his life, and at the time of his death average annual earnings would be $27m. This is what has happened after only 16 months of this Labor Government. 
The Government has contributed to this situation by its creation of an artificial labour shortage, its failure to control demand, its encouragement of excessive wage demands and less work, its discouragement of investment which would improve productivity, and its use of the Commonwealth Public Service as a pace setter in wages and conditions - and inflation. To be fair, the Government has taken some sensible actions, but it has either muddled the execution of them or acted for the wrong reasons. Let us take the 25 per cent tariff cut, for instance. This could be justified as improving the allocation of resources. But to think that, as the Prime Minister claimed, it would have an immediate effect on inflation at a time of world supply shortages is to suggest that the author was so far up an ivory tower as to be bone-headed. 
The 2 revaluations of the Australian dollar were necessary and courageous, but it has been extremely foolish to leave our dollar tied to the US dollar, which has been steadily appreciating in value under influences which are quite unrelated to the Australian dollar. It seems that the Government is frightened of the political effect of devaluation. Of course, adjustment of the value of our dollar should be made whenever the economic situation dictates. Probably the only way in which this will be achieved in practice is to float the Australian dollar. I should like to see the Government taking active steps to encourage the necessary foreign exchange market. 
But despite the 2 minor credit items on the Government's record, it is clear that it has created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it. The verdict must be 'guilty as charged'. The truth is that the Government rather likes inflation, and this bears on the second charge, that 'its management of the economy is creating social inequities'. Why does the Government like inflation? You will remember,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  speaking with calm acceptance of inflation rates of 200 per cent. The reason is that, as Keynes said, inflation is a mighty tax gatherer. The Treasurer's tax revenue is up 25 per cent this year. This enables him to meet the rash promises that have been made by the Labor Party in the hope that the public does not notice that they are being paid for in depreciated money. 
There seems to be a feeling in government ranks that if people such as pensioners are insulated against price rises, inflation does not matter very much. The truth is that it matters a great deal. In inflationary times the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. The reason for this is quite simple. The rich have more disposable assets and have the knowledge to put their assets into inflation-proof investments. The poor have no such opportunity. Further, inflation violently distorts the pattern of investment, brings windfall profits to some undeserving people, discourages the thrifty and harms the growth on which our future prosperity depends. If inflation becomes accepted by the community it is almost impossible to eradicate it. 
What one needs is a united attack on the problem by government and governed, by employer and employee, by intrepreneur and investor. This can be done. Such unity is far more important than any constitutional powers. As Britain has recently found out, the possession of constitutional powers over prices and incomes is pointless without national consensus. It should be our prime purpose to mobilise the community to face the problem of inflation and to bring it within bounds. This is why the attempt by the Government to introduce automatic quarterly adjustments to wages is so dangerous. If such a powerful section of the community is insulated against the immediate effects of inflation, the prospects of a united attack on the problem are seriously reduced. It is not so much that it is inflationary itself, although it may well be. Its main danger is that it erodes the will to fight inflation. By its attitude to inflation, the attitude of benign or perhaps not so benign neglect, the Government is harming the weaker section of the community, the very people it claims to protect. It is therefore clear that the verdict on the second charge that in its management of the economy it is creating social inequities the verdict clearly must be guilty as charged. 
The third charge I would like to deal with is that the Government has pursued defence and foreign policies which have seriously weakened our defence capacity. It is indisputable that the Government has broken a clear election promise, which fooled many people, over defence expenditure. It was explicitly stated in its election material on defence that defence spending would be maintained at 3.5 per cent of gross domestic product. No ifs or buts; no mention that this was subject to a new strategic assessment; no let outs. This was an explicit promise - an explicit promise that the Government has flagrantly broken. Defence expenditure was this year assessed as 2.9 per cent of gross domestic product, but with the enormous inflation which this Government has generated it seems likely to be as little as 2.5 per cent of gross domestic product. Our defence forces which, when we left office, were of a strength and morale unparalleled in peace time, are now run down and depressed. 
The Prime Minister talks of independence as if he had just invented it or we had just achieved it, and his colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  busily destroys one of the fundamental requirements of effective independence. In his conduct of foreign policy the trouble with the Prime Minister is not so much what he does as the way he does it. He has introduced a larrikin strain into our conduct of foreign policy, with gratuitous attacks, often ill-informed, on friendly powers. The Prime Minister is constantly reporting to this House that he has restored relations with certain countries, but who damaged the relations so that they needed restoring? It is the Prime Minister, by indiscreet statements, and his selfappointed assistant Foreign Ministers, by even more indiscreet statements. Our conduct of foreign policy has been a chaotic muddle. 
If one tries to see a pattern in the present Government's conduct of foreign policy, one is struck irresistibly by the marked similarity to the British Labor Party in the 1930s. It is extraordinary how the Labor Party, in both its social and foreign policies, is always harking back to the days of the depression. There are strong similarities between the foreign policy style and attitudes of the Prime Minister and that of  Mr Ramsay  MacDonald, the British Prime Minister in the early 1930s - a man described as the boneless wonder by Winston Churchill. They are both known for the same attitude of fuzzy benevolence, the same lip service to regional organisations to which they have no intention of contributing when the strain comes on, the same abuse of potential friends and praise for potential enemies. They both seem to believe that this constitutes a viable foreign policy. I am sure the shade of Ramsay MacDonald would approve our Prime Minister's torpid acceptance of the build up of Russian strength in the Indian ocean, and his Government's strident criticism of American moves in the same region. Ramsay MacDonald seemed to believe that a reduction in his country's ability to defend itself and to help its friends somehow assisted peace, a policy which our Prime Minister seems to he following also. The direct result of the inanities of Ramsay MacDonald and others was the Second World War in which 20 million people lost their lives. I hope our Prime Minister's will be less expensive. He described himself publicly, in what I hope was meant to be a joke, but I do not think it was, as the greatest Australian Foreign Minister. I do not think any of us would agree with him, although we would certainly agree that he has been the most talkative and the most old-fashioned. Quite clearly the charge that the Government has pursued defence and foreign policies which have seriously weakened our defence capacities is proved beyond all reasonable doubt. 
The final charge I would like to deal with is that the Government has 'failed to fulfil the expectations of the Australian people because of its administrative incompetence'. This is a very easy charge to prove. The Prime Minister, of course, had no administrative experience of any sort before becoming Prime Minister and the effects of his inexperience are apparent everywhere. Of course he had a team of Ministers which would have taken an administrative genius, which the Prime Minister certainly is not, to get to perform effectively. The administrative contradictions can be seen everywhere. The social welfare program has some desirable aims, but it will clearly take a sharp rise in national output to make these objectives feasible. One would expect a sane Government to be making every effort to raise our national productivity and product. Instead, what do we have? We have the elimination of the investment incentive to instal new plant and equipment upon which new productivity depends. We have a general air of uncertainty caused by contradictory statements by Ministers, an uncertainty which inhibits forward planning. We have a campaign for the reduction of the working week to 35 hours, a 121 per cent cut in the normal working week. This last example of a campaign for a 35 hour week is a fascinating example of the muddled way in which this Government's mind works. The first target for the 35 hour week was the oil industry, which the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  claimed could afford to pay the extra labour costs. The interesting point is that the oil companies have had price con trol for their major products for many years. If the Minister for Labour is right and the oil companies profits are excessive, surely the right answer is to reduce the price of petrol so that the whole community can share in the benefits rather than to give all the benefits to a small group of militant trade unionists. 
Even when the Government makes a sound decision it does not follow it through. I agree with the setting up of an 'Industries Assistance Commission to bring assistance to all industry, primary and secondary, under comparable scrutiny. But when the Government wishes to remove the superphosphate bounty does it refer it to the Industries Assistance Commission which it created? It did not - a clear case of muddled administration. 
One could spend a great deal of time talking about the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who is a very tempting target. It would take a man of extraordinary administrative incompetence to achieve a situation where there is a sharp reduction in oil exploration at a time of world oil crisis and when Australia's proven reserves have only a few years to run. Yet this is what that Minister has achieved. Some time ago he predicted in this House that nothing was more certain than the continued and even more frequent devaluation of the American dollar. Since that time, although not as a result of that statement, the United States dollar has steadily risen. The degree of economic ignorance of the Minister for Minerals and Energy is frightening when one considers that he is responsible for the approval of mineral export policy. One could go on and on with these examples of gross ministerial incompetence. 
Two Ministers have been frank. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said that the implementation of Labor policy on Aborigines has been a disaster. The Minister for the 'Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  has said that La'bor policy in his field has been a series of failures. These 2 are the only frank Ministers. If the remaining Ministers had a similarly honest evaluation of their policies, they would have to come to similar conclusions. Cabinet solidarity, better expressed as collective responsibility, is a joke. Ministers are openly saying that they will go to Caucus to get Cabinet decisions reversed. In fact we have government by a 93-man Caucus. The Federal  President  of the Labor Party has described this Labor Government as 'insane' and 'imbecile'. I suppose he should know, but I think that as usual he is exaggerating. I do not think the Government is either insane or imbecile. I think it is merely foolish and grossly incompetent. The sooner we can get rid of this whole ramshackle regime the better for the country which can then be set back on a straight course for its great destiny. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Moreton; in fact it is a repetition of the part of his question which the Prime Minister did not answer. I ask: When did the Prime Minister form the opinion that  Senator Gair  was holding an office of profit under the Crown and what did he do about it? 
 In the brief time which is all that the Government has left us, I wish to deal with clause 34 of the Health Insurance Bill. The Committee could consider this Bill for hours, clause by clause, and it would find serious errors and omissions and undesirable features in almost all of the clauses. The clause to which I refer particularly is clause 34 which deals with hospital arrangements. With the changed insurance scheme - the so-called new insurance scheme introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  which is being proposed in this Bill - it is certain that there will be substantial changes in hospital bed use, and this will have significant consequences. There will inevitably be a great shortage of standard ward beds for many years, and poorer people who in some States, for example Victoria, have had special rights to beds in public hospitals will now have to compete with the richer elements in the community for these beds. So much for the Australian Labor Party's claim that it has special consideration for the disadvantaged. 
Many of the private hospitals are of outstanding quality. They will have to change their whole structure by setting up standard or public wards. This, in turn, will mean much greater Government control and the destruction of much that has made these hospitals  great. A statement by the Board of the Freemason's Hospital sums up the problem well. The Board said: 
There appears to be no practicable way in which a hospital the size of the Freemason's Hospital can combine public and private beds. The overhead and administrative problems involved when dealing with a mixture of patient classifications in a total of about 140 patients became out of proportion to the possible benefits. Accordingly it is submitted the White Paper scheme. . . . 
That is the present Bill which has been resuscitated by the Minister - 
. in its present form is impracticable to operate so far as it relates to the Freemason's Hospital and likely in the ultimate event to result in endangering the continued existence of this hospital. 
This hospital is one of the finest in Australia. It is one that the Minister, with his scheme, would destroy. 
How great the danger of the destruction of private hospitals is can be seen from a detailed examination of clause 34 of the Bill. Clause 34 (2) permits private hospitals to apply to the Minister for permission to open standard wards, and this they certainly will have to do under the Hayden scheme. Clause 34 (3) provides that the Minister will determine how many beds shall be taken over. The whole lot can be taken over if he so decides. Clause 34(4) provides that the Minister will decide how much a private hospital will be paid for taking in standard ward patients. Look at the sequence in clause 34. The Minister decides, the Minister determines, the Minister decides. What a perfect program for the takeover of private hospitals by the Government - for the socialisation of our hospitals scheme. Of course, we should not be surprised about this. The Minister has been quite frank about it. In the Sydney Morning Herald' of 6 September 1972 he said: 
The Labor Party is a socialist party and its aim as far as medical care is concerned is for the establishment of public enterprise. 
Of course, this is why he is trying to socialise our entire medical system. This proposal was clearly rejected once by the Senate and by the people of Australia and it will certainly be rejected by them again. If the Government likes to have a double dissolution on this issue I am certain that it will be resoundingly rejected at the polls by the people of Australia. 
That is only clause 34 of the Bill. There are many other errors and omissions contained in the Bill and I should like to deal with just a couple of them. I must say that there are a couple of good features in this Bill but they could easily be incorporated into the existing health scheme without the destruction of all the good things in the existing scheme and without the incorporation of the many bad features that are also in this scheme produced by the Minister for Social Security. I should like to mention just one other point. I refer to the proposed elimination by this Bill of the special account scheme. This would have a very unfortunate consequence. Under the existing health scheme members of a fund may be transferred to the special account scheme under which the Government pays their benefits in full. This may be done because of a pre-existing complaint, chronic illness or stays in hospital in excess of a specified period, usually about 84 days in any year. Under the Minister's scheme, this special account is to go and long-term or chronic patients who have insured themselves for private or intermediate care will be thrown out of this accommodation after about 3 months. This is only another of the many iniquitious provisions in this scheme. The divisiveness and uproar which this Bill caused when it was first introduced in this House and will cause again now have diverted attention from the real areas of health care, as the honourable member for Hotham pointed out. The Bill does nothing at all to improve the standards of nursing home care to cope with the problems of people who have elderly relatives in nursing homes where they are being charged above the standard ward fees. The relatives of these people must pay for themselves. This is one of the many areas which this Government has done nothing to improve. 
It is in the White Paper that the Government will meet the full cost but in 18 months in office the Government has done nothing to raise the amount of subsidy paid to nursing homes to bring them within the reach of people in them. What has happened is that this Government and this Minister have approved rising charges to patients but have done nothing to reduce the gap between the Governnent subsidy and the charges which the patients or their families must pay for themselves. This is typical of the way in which the Government in order to make its totally discredited scheme attractive is trying to destroy or damage the existing scheme through bad administration. The 
Government's aim is not to produce an improved scheme. It is to destroy the existing one. 
I am sure that when the honourable member for Hotham explains, as he will soon, the improvements that we have in mind for our health scheme it will be seen as a very much better approach to delivering health care to people in Australia. What this Government is doing is concentrating on one area of the problem, namely, the health insurance scheme. lt is ignoring the real problem, which is how to deliver better health care to the community in Australia as a whole. We in the Liberal Party believe this is the key area of health care and this we as a government will achieve. 
-I understand that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill is not contentious and I think it is being supported by the Opposition, give or take a comma or two. The Bui does bring up, though, some fairly fundamental points. The purpose of the Bill is to make it practicable for a judge to be appointed as Director-General. I think we should look at the sort of organisation of which he is to be Director-General and whether it is appropriate for a judge of a Commonwealth court, who will return to that function, to be the head of it. The problems created by a security service are some of the most difficult to be faced in any democratic society. One has to balance the needs of individual liberty against the needs of society as a whole. The gravest danger we face is that such a body will be used under secret political control. We must see that our system is proof against this type of control. 
What is ASIO for? To use an English expression, it is for the defence of the realm. We must defend our realm against extremists of the left and the right. At the moment, the main threat comes from the left. That does not mean to say that the Organisation should not be structured so that it is ready to defend the realm against extremists of any sort. It should not be interested in private conduct, business affairs or political opinions unless those political opinions lead people to attempt to overthrow the Government by unlawful means. This, of course, brings up a difficulty because surveillance of some marginal activities is required in order to determine whether political organisations are seeking to use lawful or unlawful means to overthrow a government. Nevertheless, this is one of the problems we have to face. General Wolfe once said that war is an option of difficulties. I say that security is an even greater option of difficulties. 
Another thing a security service must do is screen individuals who have access to our own or other nations' secrets. This is particularly important because if other nations are not satisfied that the people who have access to their secrets are adequately screened we will not receive those secrets and we will be the losers. I would, however, like to see a system in which people whose promotions or careers are interrupted by adverse security assessments are notified of them and given a chance to appeal. Perhaps this is where having a judge as Director-General of ASIO would be particularly appropriate. I do not think it will ever be possible to have a person who has been accused and notified confront his accusers for obvious reasons of effective administration of our security service. Excepting that, I think he should be notified and have a proper right of appeal if his career is being adversely affected. We have not yet been able to do this. 
We have set up a security organisation under a Director-General, a statutory authority who under legislation is as independent- I hope he is as independent- as the Auditor-General or the Commissioner of Taxation. These are 3 great independent statutory authorities. I am quite sure that if the Treasurer of this country sent to the Commissioner of Taxation for an individual's income tax records he would receive an answer from the Commissioner no doubt very politely worded but the sense of which would accord with the phrase coined by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  a few days ago in this House. In other words, he would be told that he could not have those records. Independence from direct political control is vital for the Director-General of security. Under the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act he is obliged to advise Ministers where he, the Director-General, is satisfied that it is necessary and desirable to do so in respect of matters relevant to security. He has a responsibility to advise but he decides whether it is necessary or desirable to do so. ASIO is an intelligence organisation without executive power. The responsibility for security within a government department when it is advised by the DirectorGeneral of ASIO, rests with the department. The responsibility for law enforcement rests with the police. It is important that this independence be preserved. Regrettably in recent years it has not been preserved. It is vital that the Organisation should be independent from secret political control because this is the key to the rights of the individual. 
Unfortunately, the conditions of the appointment of the Director-General of ASIO appointed in 1970 contained an expression that 'misconduct included . . . failure to comply with any lawful direction given by the AttorneyGeneral regarding the Organisation'. That was interpreted, wrongly in my view, to mean the Attorney-General could give instructions about security matters to the Director-General. I do not believe that he can or should have been able to do so because the only lawful orders he can give would have to be authorised by the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act or another Act of Parliament. The Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act gives no such power to the Attorney-General. This unfortunate wording in the conditions of service of the Director-General appointed in 1970 were used by former  Senator Murphy  as the authority for his most regrettable raid on ASIO and other activities of a similar nature by the former Labor Government. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had pointed out that the clear intention of this House in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act was to make the DirectorGeneral of Security an independent statutory authority free from any direct political control, but perhaps an unfortunate form of words in his conditions of employment had enabled 2 successive Labor Attorneys-General, the former  Senator Murphy  and  Mr Enderby,  to use that form of words in order to bring the DirectorGeneral under direct political control. This was a most regrettable step in the development of our security organisation. I would like to draw the attention of the Opositon to the fact that the predecessors of those 2 former AttorneysGeneral were rather wiser. The late  Dr Evatt  in commenting on the role of the Director-General of Security in September 1949 said:  . . . the Director-General of Security is free from ministerial direction. 
The then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  said:  . . . the Director-General has been given complete authority on security matters and I do not propose to interfere with him in the discharge of his functions. 
I believe it is most important for the individual liberties of us all that the Director-General of security should be free from direct political control. If we are going to give an individual such power, some principles must be followed in the selection of an individual for this role. The first and most obvious is that the Director-General must be a highly respected public figure. What sort of respected figure have we in mind? The Opposition clearly thinks a judge should be appointed to this position. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has said before- he repeated it in this debate- that his view is that the position should be filled by a judge and that in the Labor Party's view this position should in future always be filled by a person holding judicial office. He said that the Labor Party holds strongly to this view. I must say that I strongly disagree with this view. 
I would like to put the reasons why I feel that way, but first let me point out that there is no criticism of  Mr Justice  Woodward in anything I say. He is a man of the highest distinction and reputation. He, I think, is entirely suitable for the job, but I do not agree with the concept that the job of Director-General of ASIO should always be held by a judicial officer. The reason for this is that the Director-General of ASIO works in a highly specialised field, and there are 2 aspects to it. The first is the protection of the rights of the individual. There is no doubt at all that a distinguished judge would be extremely valuable in ensuring that the Organisation followed the due processes of law. It is worth pointing out though that the due processes of law are not necessarily the same as individual liberty. Some of the worst crimes in our history- we of all nations should know this- were committed in the name of the law, nevertheless this is an area in which I have no doubt a distinguished jurist would be most effective. But that is not all or even the most important part of the job of Director-General of ASIO. He is administering a complex and highly specialised organisation and this is a role in which the Director-General must be closely involved, to ensure that the Organisation is not diverted from its proper role and to ensure that no improper practices creep in. 
There has been one occasion previously when a judge was the Director-General of ASIO. He was the first Director-General. He was a distinguished judge, but I think it is no secret that he was very little involved with the day to day operations of the Organisation. In my view the administration of ASIO during those years suffered from a lack of direction and control at the top and a number of highly undesirable practices crept in over those years through that lack of control. We must be quite sure that the man we appoint as Director-General of ASIO is capable of controlling and directing its organisation in detail. If we appoint a suitable man who may or may not hold judicial office we must see that he meets these requirements. But there must also be some external controls. For reasons I have already advanced to the House I am very strongly opposed to those controls being ministerial under the aegis of the Government because this brings out the opportunity for secret political directives being given to ASIO and ASIO being exploited for improper political motives. This is a danger we have gone through over the last 3 year. There may be other controls. i think we should look very carefully at whether it is possible to have bi-partisan control from this House with a small number of members monitoring the activities of ASIO. This is possible and it could be done. There are dangers, of course, as one has seen in the recent attempts to control intelligence organisations in America which although they have revealed some things that perhaps should have been revealed, they have also done immense harm to other countries. Someone pointed out the other day that  Senator Church  who is heading one of these investigations had done more harm to democracies in 2 weeks than the Central Intelligence Agency had done in 20 years. If we set up an organisation in this House to monitor ASIO we must ensure that we do it in a sensible way and that we do not do harm to and hamper the purpose for which the Organisation is set up. 
There is another control I think we should have. I believe that the Director-General of ASIO is in such an important position that he must have a fixed term of office non-renewable. I would say that after 5 years or perhaps longer the appointment of Director-General of ASIO should lapse and a new person should be appointed. If this Organisation is running properly I do not think that we would want to leave one person in control for too long. We must never in this country have someone get into the position of J. Edgar Hoover who has now been revealed to have had some very unfortunate influences on American policy. He reached a situation where he had so much information about senior people in the American Government that he was virtually unsackable  President  Lyndon Johnson who had an earthy turn of phrase was once asked why he did not sack J. Edgar Hoover. He replied 'Sack Hoover! I could not do that. I would rather that man inside my tent spitting out than outside spitting in', or words to that effect. We must never allow a Director-General of ASIO to reach that position. Perhaps the answer is, as I have said, to have a fixed term non-renewable. On the whole we have to rely on the integrity and independence of a Director-General of ASIO.  His  independence is or should be guaranteed by the Act which sets out his independence in the clearest possible terms. I would like an assurance from the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  that this independence so clearly laid down by this House will not be abridged by secret terms and conditions of appointment because the independence of the Director-General of ASIO isperhaps paradoxically- the key to our individual rights and liberty. 
It is always refreshing to listen to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  It is not necessary to agree with all he says to recognise that he has clarity of vision and honesty of purpose, which is a tremendous contrast to most of what we hear from the Opposition benches. Most of the speeches we have heard from the Opposition benches in this Parliament have been word by word and line by line a perfect example of how the Australian Labor Party managed to get this country and the Party into such a mess. The normal system is to try to blame someone else for everything that went wrong. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was a past master at this. Everything that went wrong was always someone else's fault- the Senate, the States, the unions, the multinational companies, the Central Intelligence Agency. It was always anyone's fault but his own. 
I do not see why members of the Opposition always feel obliged to bring the CIA into it to explain all the things that went wrong. We are well aware that they are perfectly capable of making a tremendous mess of things without any assistance from anybody else. They have shown it to this House and to this country repeatedly. It is a great pity though, that running through their speeches there is not only this feeling that the CIA is ruining things for them; there is also a deep strain of anti-Americanism which I find rather ominous and rather sad. Therefore it was very pleasing to see in the Governor-General's Speech a simple statement which I think is very important. He said: 
The Government believes there is a need to pay more attention to relations with countries with which we share common philosophical commitments. 
That, I think, should be the theme of this new Government. One area which was bedevilled by the anti-Americanism of the Labor Party was the question of Omega stations in Australia. The setting up of an Omega station in Australia was opposed by odd little movements called Stop Omega, No US Bases in Australia, and similar petty organisations. Their only common denominator which I could discover was a virulent antiAmericanism and an almost total ignorance of Omega. I talked to a number of people demonstrating about it. Their views on Omega, as far as they were coherent at all, which was fairly rarely, were that Omega was some type of long range missile or, as far as I could gather, some type of death ray. Of course it is not either. Omega is a simple long range navigation system. It is worth remembering that ships on the ocean are now navigated in essentially the same way as Captain Cook's ships were navigated- with a sextant and a time device. Omega is the greatest single advance in a simple navigational system the world has yet seen. 
What is it? There are 7 Omega stations at the moment- there should be 8- carefully situated around the world. They transmit at very low frequency. Ships at sea can use 3 of these stations. They need 3, measuring the phase differentials of the stations and so they can fix their position. To fix it they need a receiver which costs about $3,000. A child, after 5 minutes instruction, using this receiver could fix the position of this ship at any time of the day or night within half a mile. This is a tremendous advance in the science of navigation at sea. 
There is an alternative use, which might be of even greater interest to Australia, and that is its possible use as a rescue device. One could fit to any craft that goes to sea a simple transceiver which could, when activated in the event of an emergency, transmit to a satellite the Omega signals it was receiving. On shore one could read with an accuracy of half a mile where that ship or craft in distress was. I do not need to remind the House of the enormously costly searches for missing craft for the House to see how valuable such a device would be. As I have said there should be 8 stations. One is missing. These stations must be carefully sited because the signal from the station is not usable within about 700 kilometres of the station. When a station is sited there must be in the area surrounding the station 3 other usable stations. Therefore the siting of these stations is very important. The range of an Omega station is about 8000 kilometres. Beyond that range there is confusion because the transmissions coming the opposite way around the world make difficulties. 
Therefore, to complete an effective Omega network around the world, there needs to be a station somewhere in southern Australia or New Zealand. Southern Australia is adequately covered at the moment by Omega stations elsewhere in the world- those in Hawaii, Japan, the Argentine and Reunion Island. They cover southern Australia. The areas that are not covered at present are the north-east and northwest approaches to Australia. These are extremely poorly charted and very dangerous waters. The advantages to Australia of having a proper navigational system in those areas would be great. What is the history of Omega? Regular transmission started in 1966. That was 10 years ago. The United States started fitting ships in 1967. In the same year the United States made an approach to the Australian Government for permission to make technical experiments in Australia to determine whether a station would be appropriate here. That permission was granted. In April 1970 there was a formal proposal from the United States for agreement in principle to the setting up of an Omega station here. In December 1970 the Australian Government, then Liberal-Country Party, agreed. Late in 1972, just before the change of government, agreement was reached. Regrettably it was not signed. At that point the steady progress ceased. The first thing that happened was that in May 1973. the then Prime Minister referred the issue of Omega to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Hearings were held from August to November 1973. Thereafter there was a 2 year inexcusable delay. Firstly the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Wheeldon,  sat on the report for one year during which time, as far as I could discover, he did not alter anything. He merely delayed it for a year. Even when it was presented to Parliament nothing happened. The Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition, did not even dare refer it to his Caucus, although the majority of Labor members on the Committee had approved the use of Omega. This delay, in my view, is inexcusable. It is a sad and sorry tale. 
If we are to instal Omega now, as the new Government is determined to do, we must be clear on its advantages, the cost and the possible disadvantages. The advantages are obvious, I think. It is cheap- extremely cheap. A receiver costing only $3,000 will be a wonderful boon to ocean navigation. It is reliable. It will give 24 hour coverage. It increases the safety of shipping. Previously on a long ocean passage, with overcast skies for some days, a ship could well be uncertain of its position by up to 100 miles, thus making a landfall very difficult. With Omega no uncertainty about position would arise. There would be a reduction in running costs of shipping and more accurate times of arrival. Finally, there is the almost certain development of the global rescue net which would be a wonderful boon to the safety of small craft. 
What do we have to pay for this? The cost of an Omega station in 1973 was $8m to $ 10m. Of this cost Australia, in the draft agreement which regrettably was allowed to lapse by the Labor Government, was only to provide the land and pay $500,000 of the $10m cost. The running costs would be about $500,000 a year, of which Australia would pay half. This is extremely cheap for such a magnificent navigational aid. What objections are there to it? The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence heard a series of objections from various people. I thought the words of dissent by the 7 Labor members who dissented from the final report were very moderate. They said: 
It is unfortunate that many of the opponents have overstated their case. 
I think that was a very mild way of describing the gross deceptions which some of the people appearing before the Committee tried to impose on the Committee. People submitted pseudoscholarly footnotes. I do not know whether they thought the Committee would not have them checked. When the references were checked they turned out frequently to have nothing to do with what it was purported had been said. In some cases they flatly contradicted what was said. The opponents were making remarks which might have sounded good on the public platform- a 'Stop Omega' platform- but when subject to critical analysis were found to have no foundation at all. 
There was one possible objection which had to be examined, that an Omega station in Australia could be used to guide missile-firing submarines, that it could provide the navigation basis for them and that, therefore, an Omega station in Australia could become a nuclear target. This, I think, was the most thoroughly researched area of the Committee's investigation. The evidence was overwhelming that in fact ballistic missile submarines did not need and did not use Omega although it could be read by a submarine at a submerged depth of 30 feet; missile-firing submarines did not use it for operational reasons and also because at a cost of about $lm a ship they had a far more sophisticated and elaborate navigational system; and Omega could not possibly provide them with the accuracy necessary for their missile launches. This was recognised even by the Labor members who dissented and who said: 
The evidence presented to the Committee does show that the Omega system is not vital to nuclear ballistic missile submarines. 
That, I think, disposes of the possibility of Omega being of value to missile-firing submarines. Of course, the majority of the Committee felt that there was no question at all of it being of any use to missile firing submarines and no likelihood of the station becoming a missile target. 
As I have mentioned the dissenters, I think I should say something about them. There were 7 dissenters, although rather oddly one of them,  Senator Wheeldon,  signed both the report and the dissent, which might have been said to be backing each horse in the race. Of the other 6 members who dissented, three were not present when the evidence was taken. So much for the 7 dissenters. It is worth noting that 18 Labor Party members were involved in the Committee during the consideration of Omega and that eleven did not sign the dissent. The dissenters, as I said, accepted that Omega would not be used by missile firing submarines. They said it could be used by warships. Of course it could. Warships navigate like any other ship. Warships use lighthouses. They use charts. They can take directions from any fixed radio station. If we wished to deny warships any means of navigating by any devices based in Australia we would reduce Australia's trade and commerce to zero. 
The dissenters also said something to the effect that they were not convinced that Omega was cost effective. The cost effectiveness of Omega was not referred to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and the Committee heard no evidence on it. So it is not clear on what basis they decided it was not cost effective. I would say, and I am sure that anyone who studied the benefits and the cost would say, that this is probably the most cost-effective device ever installed for navigation. 
The dissenters then rather oddly quoted the  Red Star.  They said- and I think I had better quote their views exactly: 
The  Red Star  had claimed that Omega installation would be part of a world-wide United States military system. 
That is a flat statement and it is actually true. Then they went on to say: 
It follows from this that even though the Soviet Union may be mistaken in this view the fact has to be recognised that rightly or wrongly it does hold this view. 
There is a wonderful gap in logic there. I am quite certain that the Soviet Government does not and could not believe all the things that it puts in  Red Star  and for us to base our policy on the assumption that everything that is in  Red Star  is necessarily Soviet Government policy would be a very unsound basis for decisions. 
The final point in the dissent was to reveal, I am afraid, a complete ignorance of how Omega works by these Committee members. Three of the six, I must say, did not hear the evidence. Their criticism of having an Omega station in southern Australia was that that Omega station would be of no use to shipping in Bass Strait. It was never intended that it should be. As I explained, there is a near zone effect and therefore the siting of an Omega station has to be in an area already adequately covered by three other stations. And this is, of course, the case in Bass Strait. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

Before the suspension of the sitting I was explaining the great importance of the Omega navigational system, which I believe is the greatest advance in ocean navigation since the eighteenth century. The installation of a station in Australia was overwhelmingly endorsed by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which comprises members of all parties. It was to my intense regret delayed for 3 years by the ineptitude and the suspicion of the former Labor Government. 
It is worth recognising some fundamental points about the Omega installation. Firstly, Australians are an island people. Eighty per cent of our population fives within 20 miles of the coast. We are one of the great overseas trading nations of the world and virtually all of our overseas trade goes by sea. Half of our interstate trade goes by sea. The efficiency of our sea transport is central to our economy. The installation of an Omega station in Australia is essential if the system is to provide a full coverage. It would make a significant increase in the efficiency of our sea transport and therefore would reduce costs. It is, I am afraid, regrettably typical of the late unlamented Labor Government that it was prepared recklessly to waste resources on ill-considered schemes but was not prepared to devote the time, effort and attention to installing systems such as Omega and many others which would be of great value to the development of our economy. Nothing we can now do can undo the 3 years that have been lost. I now appeal to honourable members on both sides of the House to see that this most important project which will cause valuable improvement to our economy is now proceeded with without delay. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the make, country of design and country of manufacture of each of the cars provided to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Mission overseas during the 3 years ended 31 December 1975. 
In the cases where cars not of Australian design were supplied, what were the reasons for non-use of an Australian designed car. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Did the scheme for subsidies for elderly nursing home patients, which was introduced by the McMahon Government, provide support so that the gap to be paid by patients was less than the single pension and left at least $6 in the hands of pensioners for their personal expenses? Was that scheme wrecked by the neglect and incompetence of the Labor Government? Is it now the situation that the cost of nursing home care takes not only the full pension but also requires pensioners' relatives to pay up to $30 a week in addition? Can the Minister do anything to alleviate the hardship that is causing? 
I cannot let this opportunity pass without commenting on the peculiar outburst by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  As far as I can see, their attitude to the media, their assessment, is not whether a program is objective or honest or even interesting. It is whether the medium in question does or does not support the Australian Labor Party. In 1972 when the Murdoch Press supported the Labor Party,  Mr Rupert  Murdoch was the darling of that Party. Now that he has seen through the Labor Party supporters, they regard him as some sort of monster. I think they must realise that when they have, through their performance and their policies, earned the respect of the community they will be favourably reported by the media, but not until then. What they seem to resent and what gets under their skin is that they are honestly and accurately reported by the media. They do not like what they see in the mirror. Well, on their showing at 2 recent elections the Australian people do not like the look of them much either. I think that is enough on the hangups of the honourable members for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Melbourne. 
I would like to deal with a more important subject which affects one of my constituents. I draw to the attention of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  the fact that one of my constituents received a grant of $1, 100-odd under the Structural Adjustment Assistance program. The money was received in December 1974 and January 1975. Two weeks ago this man received a letter from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in which the key paragraphs are these: 
The Government's original decision provided income maintenance assistance to persons whose employment was terminated as a direct result of tariff reductions. 
It has recently been established that . . . 
The man 's company is named-  was dependent on another company or companies for business, and it was the effect of lower tariffs on those companies that in turn, affected your employment. 
This means that your retrenchment could not be directly attributed to tariff reductions. 
The Government, after careful consideration of persons like yourself who experienced these 'secondary effects', decided not to extend its original decision beyond paying persons directly affected. 
Accordingly, I regret that the Income Maintenance of $ 1 , 1 45. 1 8 paid to you was in error, and must be repaid in accordance with Treasury Regulations. 
I do not think it is reasonable to expect these retrospective payments to be made, particularly in this case. The man concerned is nearly 60 years of age. He is about to retire on a Service pension and the repayment of this sum, which was expended well over a year ago, would involve him in considerable hardship. I think this case is one that could and should be reviewed by the Minister. I would be very interested to hear his views on the matter. 
-This Superannuation Bill provides a generous and well thought out scheme. In addition to being generous, the scheme has the great qualities of being simple and clear. We owe this to our Public Service. I think that we in this country sometimes fail to recognise what we owe to our Public Service. Its ability and integrity are relatively rare in this world. The efficient government of this country depends very greatly upon that integrity. I, as a former member of the defence forces retirement benefits scheme, am very much in favour of the system of paying a contribution fixed on a percentage of pay. That principle was introduced first into the defence forces retirement benefit scheme. I am delighted to see it followed in the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation scheme. I draw to the attention of public servants the fact that they are being treated somewhat more generously than servicemen. Servicemen pay  5Vi  per cent of their salary; public servants, by this Bill, will pay 5 per cent. I do not object to that. I merely draw it to the attention of public servants. 
This shift to a contribution based on a fixed percentage of pay or salary instead of the old unit system is necessary because of the impact of inflation. All the old superannuation schemesours dates back to prior to the First World Wardepended upon the assumption of a fixed value of money. With the rapid ravages of inflation, the old scheme became, in practice, almost unworkable. Therefore, this shift to a different basis and a more simple form is altogether admirable. There are limits to how far a government can and should go in the support of its servants. We must take into account the effects of our scheme on the community in general. If the Commonwealth Government introduces a scheme which is markedly more generous than schemes which can be afforded by private enterprise there will be damaging effects on the whole economy. I think we learnt that lesson the hard way by the disastrous efforts of the former Minister for Labor and Immigration, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  He set up the public servants as pace setters, which did immense harm to the whole structure of the economy and to private enterprise in this country. In our provisions for our servants we must keep a sense of balance and proportion. 
We are, in effect, making a transfer payment. We are taking the contributions of the present generation of public servants and using them to pay in part the benefits of those who have retired. Incidentally, the contribution by the 
Commonwealth is a very high proportion. The contributions of the present contributors are used in part to pay the benefits of those who have retired. This entirely is proper, but it cannot be matched in that form by private enterprise. So we must be quite sure that what we are doing in providing for our servants is not damaging to the general economic affairs and stability of private enterprise. I draw attention to one area which I regard as an anomaly. Clauses 56 and 57 of this Bill provide extra benefits for people with long service in the Public Service- more than 30 or 31 years. The anomaly which I believe exists is that war service, when these individuals were working for the Commonwealth in peculiarly dangerous circumstances, does not count as contributory service. I believe that it should. I would like to hear the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  undertake to introduce an amendment to make this service count for the purpose of the bonus payable to people with particularly long service in the interests of this country. I commend that idea to the Minister. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations heard the view attributed to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that he is satisfied with the present system of election of trade union leaders? Do not these leaders exercise immense political power over the community? What number and proportion of union members voted for the present leadership in, say, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister elaborate upon his answer to Question No. 76 to show which Ambassadors or Heads of Mission were supplied with vehicles not of Australian design. 
What was the estimated freight cost of an Australian made vehicle in each of these cases. 
In which of these cases was there thought to be difficulty with the availability of spare parts or effective after sales service for Australian made vehicles. 
I am sorry that the Opposition is not supporting the motion for a proposed standing committee on expenditure, which I regard as a most welcome and important step in the development of a proper balance of power between this House and the Government. The opposition seems to be based at least in part on a misunderstanding. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said it was undesirable that the committee give the House's  imprimatur  to matters that come before it. The committee will do no such thing. The proposed committee will be a committee of this House. It will report back to this House, which has the responsibility. The honourable member for Corio made a number of technical points which are no doubt true, but the motion spells out in detail the normal functions of the proposed committee. I see no objection to them. The honourable member said that the whole subject of committees was before the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. That is true. I think it is highly desirable that that Committee have some fixed point on which to make its recommendations. In my view, the proposed expenditure committee is so important it should be the fixed point on which the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System should make its recommendations. 
I think this House should approve the setting up of a committee on expenditure, as a matter of urgency, because it would deal with a vital subjectthe control of Parliament over finance and over the Government. That is a real power, as the present Opposition found out in rather salutory form a few months ago. We must see whether this power is there. There must be a proper structure in which the power can be exercised. So far in this area we have the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It is dealing with an important area. In a way it is the hatchet man for the Auditor-General. It does not deal with many other important areas such as the financial control of Parliament and the relationship between Parliament and the Government. The new committee would deal with these areas. I draw the attention of the House to 2 very important areas of responsibility of the expenditure committee. It has to consider how, if at all, policies implied in the figures of expenditure and in the estimates may be carried out more economically. It has to examine the relationship between the costs and benefits of implementing government programs. Those are new and highly important areas of influence of this Parliament on the operations of government and areas which I thought all members of this House would welcome. 
The new expenditure committee is avowedly based on the Westminster model. We must examine how that model has worked, learn from it and if necessary introduce modifications to suit our peculiar conditions. Therefore it is most important that this committee be adequately staffed and have adequate information if it is to be effective. We propose a committee of twelve, broken into not more than 2 sub-committees. The Procedure Committee of the British House of Commons in 1969 recommended a similar committee of eighty, broken into 9 subcommittees. The British Government eventually accepted, amid considerable criticism, a reduced committee of forty-nine, broken into 6 subcommittees. Looking at the matter in that way, I think it becomes quite apparent that our expenditure committee, if it is to be effective, must specialise. It cannot cover the full range of activities covered by the much larger British House of Commons Expenditure Committee. 
Other committees of this Parliament are carrying out duties in this field. I have already mentioned the Public Accounts Committee. The Senate has a number of committees which look at the Estimates. They look at what might be called the managerial aspects of the financial management of both Houses. So I think we can have a division of responsibility. The Public Accounts Committee can look at what might be called the legal aspects of financial control to see that money is spent as Parliament has ordered. The Senate Estimates committees can look at the managerial aspects. The new expenditure committee can look at the much more difficult and complex side of the long term policy aspects of expenditure. If the new committee is to be effective in this complex field it must be efficiently staffed. The Public Accounts Committee is effectively assisted by staff of the Auditor-General's Department. The new Committee must have expert advisers. I believe they must be permanent. It is not always easy to obtain temporary advisers with the necessary expertise. If the new committee is not properly served by expert advisers it will not be effective. 
I turn to the question of the evidence which this committee will use on which to base its decisions. The obvious first one is the Estimates. They have been presented in traditional form and have been in use for over 3 centuries. Professor Parkinson has pointed out that our present system of accounts was designed for use during one period of history. The system was introduced during the Second Dutch War, in 1666. Its primary purpose was to prevent King Charles II using the navy estimates on the appropriately named Duchess of Portsmouth. Even for this strictly limited purpose, the system was not conspicuously successful. It was revised to assume its present form in 1689. It more or less prevented King William III spending the money appropriated in the estimates on his friends, who were not even girls. Like many of our other institutions, we inherited the system from Great Britain. We still have it, although Britain is moving away from it. 
The only clear justification for the presentation of the Estimates in their present form is that the system enables Treasury to wield control over the day to day disbursement of public funds. Even for this strictly limited purpose, the vote system of Estimates does not appear to be very effective, judging by the frequency and enormous size of the Supplementary Estimates which must be presented to this House from time to time. We would have found the vote system even more cumbersome and inappropriate if in the past we had bothered seriously to debate the Estimates. Now that an expenditure committee will look at them closely I think their shortcomings will become alarmingly apparent. We must move towards a more sensible system of budgetary control. The United Kingdom Government produces an annual White Paper which is available to its Expenditure Committee. That White Paper gives firm estimates on a functional basis for the current year, fairly firm estimates for 2 years ahead and provisional plans for the fourth and fifth years. That sort of budgetary informationthose medium term projections- must be available to our expenditure committee if it is to fulfil effectively the roles I mentioned. 
The United Kingdom Expenditure Committee has not, I think we must face it, been entirely successful. It has been unsuccessful in its attempts to obtain information on the costed options given to Ministers. If our committee is to make reports, as it is charged by the motion, if it is to report on options and on whether funds are being spent economically, it should have available information on costed options. That information has not yet been available to the British Expenditure Committee. It is something that should be available to our committee. There will be protests. In Britain one Minister said: 'We cannot reach the point at which a select committee is, in effect, sitting at the desk of Treasury Ministers and peering over their shoulders'. If we do not have this sort of information available to our expenditure committee it will not be effective in fulfilling its prime role. 
We must accept that the situation is that the Government quite properly sets the goals. This House, with the expenditure committee as its vehicle, examines those goals and makes recommendations on various alternative means of reaching those goals. Further, I think we should provide or certainly agree that when we are considering alternative methods of reaching goals Ministers should be prepared to give evidence before this committee as to how these goals can best be reached. We must go further in preparing proper information about our budgetary processes and I think without doubt we will have to move, as other countries are moving, to some variant of the planning, programming budget system. I do not think that we need to move there immediately but I am sure we will get there in the end, in common with all other developed countries- and the sooner the better. 
This type of budgetary control is designed to show the link between departmental spending and departmental objectives. By linking resources to purposes and inputs to outputs in a program and by looking ahead several years the Budget would be designed to give a better appraisal of what is being achieved towards the agreed objectives. Linked with this and necessarily an essential part of it is systems analysis to provide a systematic and comprehensive analysis of the costs and benefits of alternative approaches to a policy goal. We need not be too frightened of this because it is nothing new. Cost benefit analyses seem to have begun in the Garden of Eden, for one is mentioned in the third chapter of the Book of Genesis. Although we might not be ready for systems analysis the time is long past when we should be examining Estimates on a long term functional basis relating ends and means. That is the right- I would say the duty- of this House and the committees set up for that purpose. We have given the responsibility to this committee. We must see that it has the means to achieve it. 
There is one more point. It is not sufficient if this committee merely examines matters and produces comprehensive reports which no one reads. I am always sorry to see that we do not debate Public Accounts Committee reports because there are many important matters in them which should be debated by this House. If this expenditure committee makes reports on policy objectives and methods of achieving them and on how effective the Government is being in achieving its aims, it is important that this House debate them. The House of Commons has not yet been successful in achieving more than about one day's debate on these subjects in each session. We should aim to do much better than that because that is how this House will keep the essential control over expenditure. In the past there have been defects in our financial control but when defects are known it is up to this House to rectify them as speedily as possible. That is what is being done in this motion. If we do not take steps to rectify defects we denigrate Parliament and, through that, we denigrate ourselves. This is a most important step forward for the development of our parliamentary system and I welcome the move. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Now that the Government has decided to transfer the Point Nepean Quarantine and Defence Reserve to Victoria as a national park, will he make arrangements to restore the historic forts at Point Nepean as a tourist attraction. 
Has his attention been drawn to the great interest such restorations have aroused overseas. 
Would this restoration be an excellent long-term project for, say, the Army apprentices. 
-My question is to the Prime Minister. When will the report of the Australia Council be tabled and what has been the reason for the inordinate delay in the tabling of this report? 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is one of the biggest musical entrepreneurs in the world? Is there any truth in persistent rumours of cuts in this activity? Would the Minister consider making a special allocation for this activity in the ABC budget so as to avoid the possibility of restrictions on the ABC budget, which are intended to be carried by reductions in the lavish staff overheads, being made instead in production activities such as musical  entrepreneuring 
I strongly support the establishment of the Australian Maritime College. I think to see its importance we have to look at the key role of shipping in our economy. Each year 150 million tons of exports are moved by sea from this country and 23 million tons of imports come into this country each year. Virtually all of our exports and imports move by sea. But of that amount moved by sea only 5 per cent is moved in Australian flagships. Of the bulk cargoes the amount moved in Australian flagships is one-tenth of one per cent. This is a sutuation which we should view with concern. 
Recently we saw the appearance of Soviet ships offering for Australian overseas trade. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  I think correctly, cautiously welcomed them. I think as a great trading nation we should move our goods in the cheapest vehicles available. But we must be certain that this is not a manoeuvre to freeze out competitors in the overseas shipping business, and having done so the Russians would then use all the powers a monopoly would give them. Therefore although this presence should be welcomed it must be watched with great care. 
Although only a small proportion of overseas trade moves in Australian flagships the situation is quite different on the Australian coast where it all is moved in Australian flagships. It is also worth remembering that on a ton-mile basis 50 per cent of interstate trade is moved by sea. In 1975 there were 106 Australian flag ships with an average size of 20 000 tons. Sixty-five per cent of these ships were built in Australia. I would like to see 100 per cent built in Australia. But that will require a substantial reorganisation and an increasing efficiency of the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
Nevertheless, there are serious problems for our shipping industries. The first and most obvious is the situation in our ports. As an example, 36 per cent of the total costs of the Australian National Line are involved in terminal, port and cargo handling charges. These have an enormous impact on the cost of moving our trade. This extra cost is borne by the whole community. We all pay for these extra costs. 
Study after study has revealed that our port efficiency is low. I wil give 2 examples. The first concerns roll-on roll-off type ships carrying cargoes in containers which are moved by forklift trucks at the points of embarkation and disembarkation. The rate of unloading identical containers is twice as fast in Japan as it is in Australia. Another example is the time taken for the Australia-Europe round trip. The Australian National Line budgeted for a 70-day round trip. At the moment the round trip takes 96 days which means in effect that virtually one round trip is lost per year. This is a very serious economic loss. 
The second cause for concern is the incidence of strikes. Last year the Australian National Line lost $9m, of which $6m was directly attributable to strikes. The third concern is the cost of crews. Twenty per cent of the Australian National Line costs go in crew wages. Crews do not do too badly these days. The average able seaman has a private cabin with a private bathroom. The annual salary of a master is $24,000 and of an able seaman $10,500. For this the able seaman does 30 weeks work and has 22 weeks holiday. Virtually we are providing 2 crews for each ship. I do not begrudge the men who man these ships these conditions. I know the hardship under which many of them operate and the time they spend away from home. 
Nevertheless we have to bear in mind the economic cost of what is being provided. What we can avoid is the overmanning of our ships. This problem has been persistent for many years. I can give honourable members one example which fortunately is a very clear one. There are 3 sister roll-on roll-off ships working on the Australia to North America run. These ships are identical. One is Australian manned, one is British manned and the other is Swedish manned. The United Kingdom ship has an 8 per cent smaller crew than the Australian ship. The Swedish ship has a 22 per cent smaller crew than the Australian ship. Incidentally, the Australian crews do less ship maintenance than either the British or Swedish crews. There are many reasons for this which are due to the history of relations with the maritime unions. One cause is that we have 7 maritime unions to deal with and that makes it difficult to get sensible economics in crew manning. This over manning is a very substantial cost which is borne by the whole community. 
We can see the effect of these costs quite clearly when we consider what happens to Tasmania. Tasmania is totally dependent on shipping for its external trade. The costs of shipping are putting Tasmanian businesses and industries out of action. This has resulted solely from very high freight charges. Another factor which is affecting our coastal trade- and this does not apply to Tasmania- is the fact that railways are offering subsidised competion. They are carrying goods at a loss with the consequence that our ships are moving only partly filled. We do not want to have uneconomic subsidised com- petition for which the community must bear theeavy cost. 
I think we have to look at the consequences of the very high cost or our coastal shipping. We may have to consider-I do not think we should yet- whether it is appropriate to amend the Navigation Act to get away from the situation where coastal traffic has to be moved in Australian flagships. If it is to cost so much for us to man our own ships I think we should at least consider whether we should not allow in some foreign competition. I do not think we have reached that stage yet. I hope that we never reach it, but I think we should consider it if we cannot control the rapidly rising costs of moving our goods around our coast. The cost is far too high. I repeat that costs are automatically passed on to the community. I outlined the vital role that sea transport plays in our economy. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  very clearly outlined the arguments in favour of a maritime college and the great disadvantages we have suffered all these years in not having such an establishment here. Sixty per cent of the officers of the Australian National Line were trained in the United Kingdom but that source of supply is now drying up. That is another argument, an urgent argument, for the establishment of the Maritime College. Although I agreed with the remarks of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith about the urgency of the establishment of the Maritime College I did not entirely agree with his remarks about Launceston being an ideal site for it. I have to be careful in what I say because the Minister for Repatriation, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  is seated at the table. I think there are a number of other sites which would have been better than Launceston for such a college. Nevertheless it was a commitment made, like so many commitments of the late Labor Government, without due consideration or perhaps for the wrong reasons. Honourable members will recall that this matter suddenly surfaced during the Bass by-election campaign as an electoral bribe which was notably ineffective. However, the decision having been made we are morally committed to continue to put this College on that site and for that reason I support the choice of Launceston for it. 
We have to realise, however, that that site has disadvantages and will involve costs. It is a requirement of those being trained at this Maritime College that they have access to major ports, to be able to see ships under construction and so on. I believe it will be necessary, unless the College is prepared to finance extraordinarily expensive air travel for all the cadets to many places, for it to build or acquire a training ship to take the cadets to appropriate places for their professional education. I think that will be a necessity. I would like the Minister for Repatriation to suggest timidly to the Minister for Transport that he should acquire such a ship. Perhaps it might even be built in Launceston. For the reasons I have outlined I strongly support the establishment of this Maritime College. 
It has been a long time coming and the sooner we get it the better. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that all imported smallgoods which are packaged in odd numbers of grams will be banned from sale on the Australian market as part of the metric conversion program. 
If so, is this necessary, as the cost of repackaging will force some overseas manufacturers to stop exporting goods to Australia. 
I should like to comment on some scathing remarks made last week by the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  on the Australian Conservation Foundation. I am delighted to see him in the House. Although I can understand the reasons for his irritation with the Australian Conservation Foundation I should not like it to be thought that his views are the unanimous views of the Liberal Party. I certainly do not agree with him. It is vital that environmental and conservation issues be properly weighed in the making of decisions, whether by governments or by private developers. Some of the greatest acts of vandalism have been committed by governments. For too long in our history environmental issues were ignored and many of our greatest man made and natural assets have been destroyed. It is still going on. I instance the destruction of the socalled Paris end of Collins Street in Melbourne, although I am delighted that the Victorian Government has now stepped in. 
Perhaps I should have said that I am delighted that the Premier has stepped in. Destruction is happening not only in cities. Vast areas of our rural countryside have been destroyed by ruthless over-grazing. But community attitudes are changing. People are now fighting against the wanton destruction and pollution of the environment, and fighting for the preservation of natural assets and beauty spots. The Australian Conservation Foundation with its 7 000 members is one of the bodies that has played a great role in educating the community on these issues. It deserves the gratitude of the community and of future generations for what it has achieved. 
But there must be some balance. Protection of the environment normally involves an economic cost, at any rate in the short term. Environmental issues must be one of the factors considered in each decision, together with other factors such as the economic cost and community convenience. Each factor should have its proper weighting. None, except in most exceptional circumstances, should have a right of veto. This leads me to where I believe the Australian Conservation Foundation, no doubt with the best of motives, is in danger of being led astray. It has attempted in too many cases to give environmental issues an effective veto. This is as unbalanced and undesirable a situation in the opposite direction as it was when environmental issues were not considered at all. Two wrongs do not make a right. 
Even more seriously, the Australian Conservation Foundation seems to have fallen into the trap of believing that the end justifies the means and in the process has gained itself some deplorable allies. The motives of the militant left wing unions are obvious. Most of their members have no interest in conservation. What their leaders want is a respectable cause which will create economic and industrial chaos- a fertile field for them to operate in. Through the Australian Conservation Foundation they have power without responsibility which, as Baldwin once said, has been the prerogative of the harlot throughout the ages. The Australian Conservation Foundation must, in its own interests and in the interests of future generations, be very careful of its associates. He who sups with the Devil must use a long spoon. The Australian Conservation Foundation obviously believes that it is using the militant unions for its own ends, but in fact it is the other way round. A reputation for integrity, like morale in an army, is hard won but once lost is very hard to regain. That must be the crucial concern of the Australian Conservation Foundation. It is far too valuable an organisation to continue policies which risk losing the confidence of its most concerned supporters. Yet despite these defects the Foundation has done a magnificent job over the years. Its value to the community is enormous for present and future generations. I .am still proud to be a member of it. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.35)-In February this year I informed the House of the devastating flood which was passing through my electorate. On that occasion I expressed my appreciation of the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had been to the area to examine the effects of the flood. I was critical that he did not give me the opportunity to accompany him in the chartered plane. Following that visit the Prime Minister was good enough to come into the House and apologise for not inviting me. That apology did not go unnoticed in my electorate. Many people appreciated it. I emphasise that I am not here to praise the Prime Minister and I think it fair to say that he does not always act like that. 
A lot of people might think that the flood has passed away but unfortunately it is still passing through my electorate. There are some grim stories to tell of what is happening at Menindee, Pooncarie and further downstream at Pomona. I am particularly concerned this evening to inform the House of what happened at Pomona on 1 1 May 1976. 1 was requested by the people of this very small settlement to visit it and view the flood situation. What I saw was very disturbing in some respects but in other respects it was most gratifying. It would have done members of Parliament good to have seen what I saw that evening. It was almost dark when I arrived but every able bodied man of that small settlement was out with graders and loaders building a levy bank around the settlement. These people did not wait for government assistance. They could see that not only their town but also the school and other places were in great danger of flooding. 
A lot of people would not know what a flood is like as it approaches. It looks very peaceful. The water rises only slowly. As it is seen rising slowly one wonders whether the levy bank will hold it back. Someone more experienced will see water seeping through the levy bank in certain areas and will advise that more dirt be placed behind the levy bank or it will collapse. The scene is peaceful but there is 6 feet of water on the other side. On this occasion the river broke its banks about 30 miles upstream from Pomonia Strangely the water from the river did not enter Pomonia; the water came from the other side. By the time it reached the settlement it was also coming from the river. An old roadway was affected and it had to be blown up to let the water get back towards the river. Later in the evening the 2 levels of the water were reaching about the same level. It is very tragic to see this happening, but it was very gratifying to see that everyone in the town was being supported by the little Shire of Wentworth. That is not a very wealthy shire but it supplied what was needed in material, fuel and so on. 
I have raised this matter tonight because the council already has suffered from a very severe bushfire which involved it in very large expense, to say nothing of the losses to the fruit settlements. I sent a wire to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and I am very grateful for his prompt action in replying to it. Because of his prompt action and the fact that everyone in the small township co-operated, there was very little damage. Unfortunately some of the blocks were in areas which had to be sacrificed for the construction of a levy bank. Of course, some blocks had to be sacrificed for levy banks to be built to stop the flood. It was a matter of judgment as to which blocks had to be sacrificed. One incident that occurred involved a man who had just come out of hospital. It was very pleasing to see that the first levy bank to be built was the one to protect this man's block. It is good to hear about these things in this Parliament because, although the flood unfortunately was a tragic event, we are not always able to report that people have pulled together to protect their own livelihoods, government buildings and so on. I ask the Government to give every consideration to helping these people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked  the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What were the percentage shares in gross national product at factor cost of (a ) total public sector. ( b ) defence spending, (c) transfers to personal sector and ( d ) other public spending for each year from 1938 to 1975 inclusive. 
The Minister for Health will recall that several weeks ago I pointed out to him that many nursing home patients were in serious financial difficulties. I ask: Is it a fact that in 1972 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a generous scheme of support so as to bring nursing home care within the means of patients and leave them something over for their personal needs? Was this scheme wrecked by the Labor Government? Has the Minister been able to do anything to reduce the hardship suffered by many nursing home patients, particularly pensioners? 
-The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  is always interesting and frequently provocative but he is not often relevant. What he talked about was irrelevant to the subject we are debating. He was discussing the ministerial statement made this morning about the admission of American nuclear powered ships to our ports. I repeat that that is not the subject before the House at the moment. What we are discussing is Australia's defence, and at the moment Australia has no nuclear weapons and no nuclear powered ships. Let us get back to what we are really talking about. 
This debate is most welcome. It is a great pity that it comes at the tail end of the session when honourable members are keen to get away. Nevertheless it is worth remembering that in the 3 years of Labor rule the Labor Government did not debate defence at all. That was a very good indication of the importance the Labor Party attached to that subject. This will be only the first of several debates on defence. No doubt when the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  brings in his White Paper there will be a wide ranging debate on it, and I hope the House will take full notice of what is said and discussed. No doubt the strategic basis of our defence, our strategy, will be discussed in that White Paper but I would like to make some preliminary remarks, perhaps as a hint or suggestion to the Minister. 
We have managed to get rid of some of the rubbish that bedevilled defence strategy during the years of Labor rule, particularly the assumption, the wild and foolish assumption, that in some way there would be no threat for 15 years. The Labor Party tried to get away from that assumption at the end, but that without doubt, for a considerable time, was the basis of its defence policy. I am sure all honourable members agree that that assumption is absolutely absurd. In our history as a nation Australia has been involved in 6 wars and not one of them could have been predicted 15 years before the event. Only one of them, the First World War, could reasonably have been predicted as little as 10 years before the event. If members of the Opposition think I am being unfair I draw their attention to a remark by  Mr Curtin,  then Leader of the Opposition, in October 1938 when he pointed out that the Munich Pact had reduced the risk of war and 
Australia should lessen its defence preparation. The Second World War broke out 10 months later. 
It is absurd to think that we can look that far ahead. Any defence policy based on such an assumption is bound to be a bad policy. But that is not the only weakness we have inherited from the Labor Government. I think there is one even more serious. That is the basic concept on which the forces are being developed- the so-called core force concept. As I understand this concept it is that we should prepare our forces- a core force- to meet a massive conventional invasion of Australia by a fully sophisticated enemy, but not using nuclear weapons on the assumption that this core force could be expanded in the time from which the threat becomes apparent to a size large enough to meet the threat. This, I am afraid, embodies 2 profound misconceptions. The first is that it is highly unlikely that we would have sufficient warning to enable us to build up this core force to the necessary size. We must accept that. I am sure it is true. Secondly, the scenario on which this is based- the idea of this massive conventional invasion of Australia- is one with which, if it eventuated, we could not possibly deal on our own. We would have to have a major ally which in practice could only be the United States of America. We could not deal on our own with a threat which an enemy was planning to prepare. 
If we base our forces on such unsound assumptions as time warnings which we will not have to meet a threat we cannot meet, our equipment procurement is bound to be seriously distorted. That is what I believe is happening. I am quite certain that our aim in shaping our defence forces should be to do the things we may have to do on our own or, at best, with the support of minor allies. If we shape our forces so that we can do those things should something more serious arise where we have to have the assistance of major allies, our forces will be suitable to assist those major powers. But we should shape our forces to meet the jobs that we may have to do on our own. I suggest these jobs are very obvious. We all accept now that our ultimate aim is to preserve the integrity of this country. But we do not start to defend a country such as Australia on its beaches. That was the strategic doctrine of the late unlamented King Ethelred the Unready. 
We have to be prepared to defend this country at a distance. There are several reasons for this. First of all our exclusive economic zone now extends 200 miles outwards. That is a new area nearly as big as the whole of continental Australia but even more importantly, if we look at our strategic requirements, in the archipelago to our north which is the only direction a territorial threat to Australia could come from we must be prepared to assist friendly powers in that area to prevent developments unfavourable to Australia. This should be the central role of our defence forces, not the defence of the mainland of Australia on the mainland but the defence of Australia as far away from it as we possibly can. This may not be possible. We may not have the allies with whom to do it. But if we are threatened with an invasion, the second role of our defence forces must be a deterrent force to make the invasion of Australia an extremely expensive and unprofitable operation. 
I do not want to go into particular types of forces needed for this but the most obvious is submarines. Any serious invasion of Australia must come by sea. Submarines are an extremely effective and cost-effective way of preventing such an invasion. If we had an effective force of submarines, an invasion of Australia would be improbable in the highest degree. As I said, I do not wish to deal in detail with the equipment involved partly because of the shortage of time. But I should just like to make 2 or 3 points. The first is that our overriding requirement is for surveillance. We have an enormous coastline. We must know what is going on. It is quite obvious to me that the most economic way of achieving a broad surveillance is by way of geostationary satellite. These are in use in other parts of the world and I think the acquisition of one by Australia is an urgent matter. But that will provide only the raw information; we will still need aircraft and ships to identify particular detections. Nevertheless, without that we are very much in doubt, not only in terms of war, but in terms of such things as fishery protection, drug smuggling and other activities. Proper surveillance of our coastline is a vital and cental defence requirement. 
The second point I should like to make is that the submarines I am talking of will certainly have to be nuclear. I am sorry that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has left the chamber because I wanted to tell him that there are now no new conventional submarines being designed. The Oberon submarines that we have are excellent but they are of an old design now. To get new ones which would last to the year 2000 would be an absurdity. The only new submarines being produced which have the long range which we require are in fact nuclear. I think we have to look very seriously at all future submarines being acquired by the Australian Navy being nuclear powered. I should like to tell a little cautionary tale. When I was a boy there were stories called  Strue Peter's Cautionary Tales  and this might be added to them. It is the saga of how defence equipment can go wrong. It is the story of the DDLs-the light destroyer of the Navy. About 1966 the then Chief of Naval Staff decided that new destroyers were required urgently for 2 reasons: Firstly because the existing destroyer building program was running out; and secondly because the way existing destroyers were being used was most cost ineffective. The DDGs were off Vietnam doing a simple bombardment task. Other destroyers were operating in Malaysian waters bailing up fishing boats. This was a ridiculous employment of expensive warships with crews of 300 men. 
So the Chief of Naval Staff thought that what he wanted was a fast destroyer with a single gun. By chance a firm called Vosper Thornycroft had produced such a ship for the Persians. The company demonstrated to him a 1200 ton ship of 40 knot speed with one 5-inch gun. This was very attractive. But it was criticised by the naval staff and the engineering staff as having various deficiencies such as the lack of shock mounting which would mean it would come up all standing if a bomb dropped within 500 yards of it. So he said: 'All right, you design a ship of that type that would overcome these deficiencies'. The company produced a ship of 1600 tons of 40 knots speed with a single 5-inch gun. I was quite a good ship. But it was immediately criticised, quite fairly, I think, by the fleet commander on the grounds that it did not have a helicopter. Each ship with its role of surveillance would have to have a helicopter. That was accepted. Unfortunately, in order to have a 5-ton helicopter on board, the ship's weight had to be increased by 500 tons. The ship had to be lengthened to reduce its pitching and the deck had to be raised because helicopters do not like salt water. Nevertheless it was quite a good ship. Fortunately the Olympus gas turbines were being uprated in power and the ship's speed was kept fairly well up. They had a ship of 2300 tons, 38-knot speed, with one 5-inch gun, one helicopter and very good endurance. In my view that is where they should have stopped but they did not stop. Then the people who had been serving on the DDGs in Vietnam came back to the naval staff and they had serviceability problems with the two 5-inch guns in those ships. They said: 'In order to have one gun that will fire, you must have two'. So in went a second 5-inch gun, up went the tonnage to 3000 tons and down came the speed to 36 knots. Simultaneously the operational research people had been making investigations into the merits of helicopters. They said: 'If you have 2 helicopters, they will be 3 times as good as one helicopter'. So in went a second helicopter, up went the tonnage to 3500 tons and down came the speed to 35 knots. Next, someone was unkind enough to point out that this was a rather large and very valuable ship but it had no defence against air attack. So out went the 5-inch gun and in went a Tartar missile system and all of the associated radar, up went the tonnage to 4000 tons and down came the speed to 34 knots. Then it was pointed out that the Tartar missile system had a marginal performance against missiles and that the ship had no anti-missile defence. So in went the detection sets, the jammers and the decoy launchers. Up went the tonnage to 4300 tons, and down came the speed to 32 knots. That is where it stopped. It was said: 'Of course, you cannot possibly use a ship of this complexity with a crew of 250 on such an elementary task as shore bombardment and the interdicting of small craft. This is a major fleet unit'. It was getting away completely from what the whole purpose of the ship was originally. 
I do not say this in any criticism of anybody. All the steps were quite logical and sensible on the evidence presented. It is important that, when we produce fighting equipment for roles, we control the tactical environment in which that equipment might have to perform its task. If we do not, the natural processes of the Services wanting the best equipment will mean that every ship, every aircraft and every other bit of military equipment will escalate to the best in the world. Instead of having large numbers of ships and aircraft appropriate to their tasks, we will have a handful of F14s and extremely sophisticated missile destroyers. As a great admiral once said, only numbers can annihilate. A country such as Australia needs numbers above all other things. I mention this because ultimately it means that there must be political control. We must see that our defence preparations are kept in perspective, because if we are to defend this country properly not only must we have quality, which undoubtedly we need, but also we must be geared to the task and we must have numbers. I leave the matter there because of the pressure of time. I welcome this debate because it is a recognition by the Government that defence is the first task of the government of a nation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Neil)  adjourned. 
Can the Prime Minister state whether he will visit Indonesia this year? If so, when? Is it his intention to make a major statement on this subject? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Australian War Memorial understaffed and has it such limited facilities that the existing staff are carrying out their tasks under great difficulties. 
If so, what is being done to ensure that this important historical monument is adequately staffed. 
It is always a pleasure to listen to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who is both outspoken and original, if sometimes a little old fashioned. I think he makes a great contribution to debates in this House. He puts forward points that should be debated, although on many issues, such as that on which he spoke tonight, I must disagree with him. Nevertheless he did what very few other honourable members have done, and that is actually discuss the motion before us and the amendment to it. I do not know whether the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has received sufficient attention in this House.  His  amendment contains 5 points of criticism of the Budget. Three of them are patently false and the other two show a typical gross misunderstanding of economics and public administration. I direct the House's attention to one of them- point (e)- in which the Leader of the Opposition criticised the Budget on the ground that it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer spending. As Leader of the Government, he tried this in 1 974. Up went inflation, and up went unemployment. He tried again in 1975. Up went unemployment still faster; up went inflation still faster. Yet it is quite obvious that he still has not learnt. I do not think he is capable of it. 
I feel that it is a gross cheek- that is the only word one can use- to move a motion of this type in this House which knows him so well. Of course he has his own problems. There is the interesting thermal situation of being at once in the hot seat and keeping it warm for someone else. What is so depressing is his invincible ignorance of the fundamentals of economics and public administration. Admittedly, at times he speaks quite brilliantly on these subjects, but suddenly he says something which reveals that he has not the faintest, foggiest idea of what he is talking about. Like the thirteenth chime of the crazy clock, it casts doubt on all that has gone before. 
One of  his  supporters,  Mr Donald  Home, who was not so much one-eyed as blind, wrote a book about him in which he made a number of flattering allusions, one of which said he had monarchial tendencies. He has. The monarchs that immediately come to mind are first of all the Bourbons, of whom it was well said: 'They forgot nothing and learnt nothing'. Another one that really comes to mind is Alexander the Great. It will be remembered that Alexander the Great was reputed to have wept because he had no more worlds to conquer. I think the same situation applies to the Leader of the Opposition. Not content with the title of being clearly the more incompetent administrator ever to hold the office of Prime Minister, he is now seeking to achieve the title of being the most mischievous Leader of the Opposition. What he is trying to do is to talk down the Australian economy to make a self-fulfilling prophecy that things will get worse. What he would like- it is quite obvious he would like it- is to see more unemployment. He would like to see more inflation. He is in the sad position of the man who hates the Government more than he loves his country. 
He is not alone in his gross ignorance of economics and the way the system of this country works. This ignorance is shared by most of the members of his party. Perhaps the most glaring area of complete ignorance is on the nature and value of profits. If there is one word that can get the Opposition benches baying, it is the word 'profits'. Members of the Opposition do not understand what their value is. I admit they have had little experience of them because socialised industries do not normally make profits. The fact that they make losses is a sign not of their social merit but their administrative incompetence. Profits are fundamental to the working of any economy. 
To go to the extreme from our system, I would like to tell the House something of what Professor Galbraith reported on a Chinese commune. A further distance from our system it would be difficult to imagine. Of the sales that the commune made, 6 per cent went in taxes, 25 to 30 per cent in the cost of new materials and one to 2 per cent in the cost of materials. The remaining 60 per cent, net profits, was divided, with 6 to 7 per cent going in capital accummulation and the rest being divided among the workers in the form of wages and profits. The way it is divided is interesting. The members of the commune have a daily scale of work value  ranging  from nought to 13 based on their skill, technique, physical strength, and work attitudewhether hard or lazy. Once a month each worker assesses at what point on the scale he should be placed and the other workers debate and reassess in the light of their experience where they think he should be placed. Their assessment is the one that counts. An examination of the system shows that it is fundamentally a system where profits are the motive force. 
The same of course applies to Australia. Profits are fundamental and one destroys them at one's peril. In our situation profits of course contribute very greatly to all aspects of our government expenditure and, through it, to areas such as health, education and social welfare. The profits of a company are taxed at more than 40 per cent, and the individual returns to shareholders are taxed again at rates that may arise to more than 50 per cent. Of the profits which are retained, at least half are invested, the investment being fundamentally in plant and equipment. Out of new plant and equipment come jobs. I have here a table of assessment of how much investment is necessary to create a new job. In the manufacturing industry it is over $20,000. In the motor vehicle industry it is over $20,000. In iron and steel it is over $40,000. In petroleum and refining it is over $80,000. In mining it is above $340,000 to create a single job. This comes partly from profits and partly from investment. Of course investment in turn depends on profits. So profits are the motive force of our system and of any system. 
In case people think profits are too high, it is worth noting that at the moment the profits of manufacturing industry are about 8c in the dollar of sales. There is not much future in trying to keep down prices by squeezing profits. It only harms employment, job opportunities and the future of the country. Another point that must be made is that it is frequently thought that large companies are more profitable than small ones. This is not true. The misunderstanding comes from individuals confusing profits with profitability. The return on invested capital in large companies, on the average, is no higher than it is in the small. This ignorance of the nature of profits and their value is typical of the Opposition benches. It is reflected in the Opposition's deplorable amendment. I hope this amendmentI am sure it will be- is rejected with overwhelming contempt because, as I said, it reveals invincible ignorance of economics and public administration. What we need in this House and this country is strong support for the Government in its long haul to get this country back on the rails and support for the difficult decisions that any government placed as we are must make. We must get this country back on the smooth economic path of low inflation, full employment and reasonable growth, which we enjoyed so long under previous Liberal governments. 
I would like to say something about the accusation by the Opposition that the Government, when in Opposition last year, misused the role of the Senate. I want to do this because I think it might be known by a lot of honourable members that, as a member of the House of Representatives, I have been concerned about the developing balance of power between the 2 Houses. The danger is not that which was claimed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  that the result would be a lot more elections. That is not really the danger at all. Elections are forced by an upper House only if the Government is completely discredited, as the Labor Government was in 1975. The danger is more serious. It is that governments, knowing the threat of an imminent election or believing there was a threat of an imminent election, would always be reluctant to take hard but necessary measures which are the secret of good government. That is the real danger of having this balance of power between the 2 Houses. 
If I had my way the ideal Senate would have powers something like the House of Lords was given by the Parliament Act of 191 1- that is, no power over money Bills and limited power of delay over other Bills. That is not the situation. The Senate was deliberately given wide and sweeping powers by the authors of the Constitution. There is no doubt whatever that the Senate's use of those powers would be upheld by the High Court. This is a situation we must understand, accept and adjust to. We must not go through the measures, such as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith was doing, of grossly distorting the history and wording of section 53 of the Constitution. That section, giving the Senate explicit power to reject Bills, was in the Constitution of 1891 and was in the Constitution most of the time in 1898. It was removed at the last minute as a drafting amendment by the drafting committee and accepted without debate by the Constitutional Convention on the understanding that no substantial alterations had been made to any section. Therefore, so far as the Convention was concerned and so far as the High Court is concerned, the Senate has an unequivocal role to reject or delay any legislation as it chooses. Whether it it wise to do so is a matter that has to be considered at the time. 
I was attracted by the arguments of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about constitutional amendments, because it is a fact that as the Constitution was written the Senate effectively has more power than the House of Representatives. It can force the lower House to an election, whereas the lower House cannot force the Senate to an election unless there are grounds for a double dissolution; and that does not make the Senate the equal of the House of Representatives as the Constitution intends it to be. The reason that it got into the Constitution was that the Constitutional Convention never debated the possibility of the ordinary annual services of the government being rejected by the Upper House. Historically, up to that time the only disputes over Supply had arisen when the lower House endeavoured to tack some other measure on to the Supply or Budget Bill. Great care was taken to forbid that explicitly in the Constitution. The Constitutional Convention did not debate the other possibility because at that stage it had not occurred. People in a convention such as that are naturally bound by the history of what has happened, and very few men, such as Deakin, can see what might happen in the future. 
I now turn to some rather unfortunate remarks about the Governor-General. The Constitution has to be looked at in the light of the time it was framed and the constitutional understandings of the time. As our Constitution is written, the Governor-General is an essential umpire, an essential defender of the powers of this chamber and this Parliament against the Executive. Removal of the powers of the Governor-General would remove the vital balancing factor between the Parliament and the Executive, and that is a thing we should all remember. Those who would like to destroy the power of the GovernorGeneral should realise that in destroying that power they are destroying themselves. If we are thinking of constitutional amendments we should look very carefully at the provision that gives the Prime Minister power to dismiss the Governor-General. This is outrageous power. If the umpire makes a decision the Prime Minister does not like, the Prime Minister effectively has power to remove the umpire. I invite honourable members to consider what a cricket match would be like if the batsmen had that power. 
I should like now to turn to some remarks made by members of the Opposition about the convention of replacing senators with members of their own Party. I invite them to read the wording of the convention put forward by  Mr Odgers,  the  Clerk  of the Senate, in his book  Australian Senate Practice.  He said that since 1949, when proportional representation was introduced, the convention has been that the senator who is being replaced should be replaced by a member of his own Party. Look what happened in Queensland. The Queensland Government asked the Labor Party to nominate 3 people acceptable to that Party from whom the Queensland Government, using its undoubted constitutional power, would make a selection. What did the Labor Party do? It refused to nominate a panel of three, and then cried 'Foul'. 
They nominated one and, quite properly, the Queensland Government asked them to nominate three. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Scullin has yet to make his speech. The honourable member for Burke has made his speech. They might give the honourable member for Isaacs an opportunity to make his. 
I repeat: The convention is that a senator replacing a senator who has been removed or who has died is to be a member of the Party from which the senator came. By asking the Labor Party to nominate 3 people from whom the Queensland Government would exercise its undoubted constitutional power to make the selection, the Government of Queensland was following that convention exactly and the Labor Party, refusing to co-operate, brought the thing down on its own head. 
Finally, I turn to the question of the muddled arguments of the Opposition. One of the great difficulties that I felt the Labor Party had in the last election was that it was trying to explain how in some way it was undemocratic to have an election. Ultimately, the people decide. What happened in 1975 was that the people decided, and they decided urgently that they wanted a change of government. 
-During the second reading debate I foreshadowed an amendment to clause 1 of the Bill, which reads: 
This Act may be cited as the Film and Television School Amendment Act 1976. 
The Film and Television School Act 1973* is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. 
I move: 
In clause 1, before  'Film',  insert  'Australian'. 
I think the reasons for moving this amendment are obvious. We have the Australia Council, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This is a body with international connections. We have the film exchange going on in Mexico at the moment and there will be one in Japan shortly. We have students overseas. It is entirely appropriate that this amendment should be made. There is one basic amendment with a number of consequential amendments throughout the Bill. I propose to deal with them together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Does  the honourable member seek leave to consider all the amendments together? 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Chairman. 

The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
My other amendments propose the insertion of 2 new clauses and an amendment to the Schedule. I move: 
After clause 3, insert the following new clause: 3  a.  Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-section (1) before the word "Film", the word "Australian".' 
After clause 7, add the following new clause: 
The alteration of names effected by sections 3  a  and 7 does not affect the identity of the corporation established by section 4 of the Principal Act or of the council referred to in section 7 of that Act. '. 
Omit the Schedule, substitute the following Schedule: 

<graphic href="101131197610074_82_0.jpg"></graphic>

Has the Minister for Defence seen reports that Royal Australian Air Force Iroquois helicopter pilots serving with the United Nations peace-keeping force in the Middle East have been criticised for refusing to fly at night and that Navy helicopter pilots have been sent to the Middle East to do night flying for them? Are these reports true? If they are, will the Minister take steps to see that Air Force helicopters are equipped, and that pilots are trained, to operate by night in order to overcome what appears to be a serious operational weakness? 
It is sad to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  perfunctorily go through the motions of opposing for the sake of opposing. It is sad because I think he really did try to do something for the arts but, like everything else he attempted to do, it was wrecked through administrative incompetence. The sad thing to hear is his clear conviction that if he had another chance he would do it all again.  His  learning curve is a horizontal straight line. What happened with the arts, as with so many other things, was that he sought to solve the problems, and there are problems, by pouring money over them. This does some good, of course, but the side effects must be noted. In the case of the Australia Council, the effect was to double the proportion of resources going to administration. There were people in the community who were becoming professional fund applicants. A magazine got big circulation by publishing a table on how to apply for money from the Government. Worst of all, perhaps, the Labor Government aroused expectations which no community could meet, and I think that is the worst legacy left by the Labor Government. 
Our task now is to clear up the administrative mess, and the first action must be with the Australia Council, the successor to the Australian Council for the Arts, which was set up by the Liberal Government. There has been much disquiet about the administrative methods of the Australia Council, particularly with its explosion of resources under the Labor Government. The Council commissioned its own study by the management consultants, McKinsey and Company,  Sir Henry  Bland investigated it, and the Public Accounts Committee also showed great concern for the Council's financial methods. What has happened is that the percentage of the Council's vote going to administration doubled between the last Liberal Budget in 1972-73 and the last Labor Budget in 1 975-76 from 8.4 per cent in the first year to 1 6.7 per cent in the second year. That is high by international standards. When compared with the Canada Council, the National Endowment for the Arts, or the New York State Arts Council, those figures are very high. 
It is urgent that the administrative system of the Australia Council should be overhauled. The McKinsey report recommended many measures, most of which have been adopted by the Government, which would result in the Australia Council being reduced to about two-thirds of its present size- without a drop in efficiency, I hasten to say. Not all the recommendations of the McKinsey report were accepted. They recommended the amalgamation of the Music and Theatre Boards and the Visual Arts and the Crafts Boards. Those recommendations were both rejected, I think for good reasons. It may be possible in the future to amalgamate the Visual Arts Board and the Crafts Board, but since the report on the crafts commissioned by the McMahon Government and because of subsequent action the crafts area has been probably the most successful in the Australian art world. I think that until these Boards are more firmly established it would be a mistake to amalgamate them with the Visual Arts Board. The second measure which has been taken which does not follow the recommendations of the McKinsey report is the appointment of a general manager of the Australia Council who would be a Council member, and- and most important of all- his appointment would be a statutory appointment with a tenure of 7 years. This would give the general manager, the chief executive officer of the Australia Council, much greater security than previous occupants of the post have had in the past. 
The third section of the McKinsey report on which I should like to comment- the Leader of the Opposition dealt briefly with this also- is that dealing with devolution. In fact the Australian Council devolves quite a lot now. It devolves about $1.3m to various bodies. The trouble is that it devolves in the wrong way. It decides what projects or individuals should be supported and then devolves to the various bodies such as the Crafts Council and the Arts Council the administration of the funds. If we are to have successful devolution we must devolve the decision making. The financial control is much less important. I think it is important that this area of devolution should be pursued. I do not think we should look at it on the basis that there will be any significant financial saving because there will not be any saving. The structure to examine proposals will remain about the same size. What it could do, if done properly- I think it would have to be done very cautiously- is to try to involve the local community more in the sorts of decisions which are too often taken by remote bureaucrats in Sydney. 
Of course there are difficulties. One of the most obvious is the fact that the grant to the Australian Council has for 2 years been held static, first by the Labor Government and now by us. This is not all harmful. There was a great deal of fat in the arts organisation but that has now all been shredded away. I should like to draw the attention of the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts  (Mr Staley)  to the fact that the arts, of all activities, are the most labour intensive. It is essential that in next year's budget for the arts cognisance be taken of this fact. The grants for the arts should rise at least in accordance with the movements in average weekly earnings, otherwise there will be a drop in real output in the arts. The second problem for the Australia Council is the inevitable conflict between the pursuit of excellence and community involvement. To a considerable extent these aspects are mutually contradictory. On the whole I believe the Australia Council has balanced these conflicting objectives well, but I think that we in this House and the Australia Council in particular have to watch the very large funded organisations to ensure they do not become dinosaurs destroying all around them, and in particular spreading their activities to suppress alternative forms of expression in their particular art forms. I believe this is most important. I am not often an advocate of the late  Chairman  Mao, but I believe his idea in this field of a cultural revolution every 15 years has much to commend it. I think we should look at that in the context of major subsidies for arts companies. The arts are constantly changing and developing. We must ensure that our support for the arts changes and develops with them. 
I turn now to the second Bill before us, that is, the Australian Film Commission Bill. The Bill provides that the Australian Film Commission will assume responsibilities for the functions and powers of the Film, Radio and Television Board of the Australia Council and for the activities of the Audio- Visual Branch of the Department of Post and Telecommunications. The Commission can also provide assistance for independent radio and audio-visual production as it has in the past for film and television. I believe the Film Commission has been most successful in its encouragement of commercial film production. In one of our capital cities last year the 2 greatest box office attractions were Australian films. This sort of success would have been unthinkable only a few year ago. Of course the quality is also there. It can be seen in films such as  Picnic at Hanging Rock.  There is not necessarily a conflict between quality and commercial success. But there has been some concern- and the Leader of the Opposition mentioned this also- that when the Film Commission takes over the functions of the Film, Radio and Television Board of the Australia Council the experimental films will somehow suffer. This matter is specifically provided for in proposed new section ( 1 A) of clause 4 of the Bill which states: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission - 
That is the Australian Film Commission- shall give special attention to the encouragement of- 
the making of experimental programs and programs of a high degree of creativeness; and 
The making and appreciation of Australian programs and other programs as an art form. 
At the moment under the Australia Council 2 film funds are administered by the Film, Radio and Television Board. One is called the Basic Film Fund and the other is called the Advanced Film Fund. The Basic Film Fund, better known as the Experimental Film Fund- why they do not stick to that name I do not know, because that is what everyone calls it- is administered on the advice of the Australian Film Institute. Its structure is being transferred intact with its associated money from the Australia Council to the Australian Film Commission. There will be no loss to experimental film making. 
The third Bill before us is the Film and Television School Amendment Bill. The Bill provides for the Film and Television School to assume responsibility for training in radio and audio-visual communications. Both these areas previously were neglected. The Film and Television School was established originally with dual responsibility, both to the film and broadcasting industry and to education. It is therefore entirely proper that the charter should include audiovisual communications in the light of the increasing awareness of the importance of sounds and images, either alone or in the process of education. 
I should like to raise this point: Why do we not call this Film and Television School the Australian Film and Television School? We have many other comparable bodies with a national designation- the Australia Council, the Australian Film Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Commission- so why not the Australian Film and Television School? After all, the success of this school will depend to a considerable extent on its ability to exchange its films overseas with comparable organisations. Overseas it will inevitably be known as the Australian Film and Television School so why do we not call it that in the first place? Students of this school will be going overseas and again they will call the School the Australian Film and Television School. I propose to move an amendment during the Committee stage to implement such a change. 
In addition to the 3 bodies we are debating today, the Australia Council, the Australian Film Commission and, I hope, the Australian Film and Television School, many other bodies are invoved in the support of the arts, such as the State governments and, to a lesser extent, local government. Why are we are supporting the arts? I think the answer is clear A very large proportion of the community wants the Government to support the arts. A poll has shown that 90 per cent of the Australian people favour government support for the performing arts. This is a slightly higher proportion than that which obtains in the United States. The performing arts are also good business. In the United States the professional performing arts are worth more than professional sport in turnover. The performing arts widen the opportunities available to the individuals in our community. An essential component of a civilised community is that the community should have full access to the arts. 
We have 2 immediate problems in our activities in connection with the arts. The first is that in Australia private support is not sufficient. It is very bad to have a single patron. We must have diverse patrons, not only the Federal Government. We must bring the Federal Government, State governments, local councils and private individuals into support for the arts. A good way to ensure the maximum use of Federal funds is to insist on matching grants from other bodes. This will ensure community support for activities which the Federal Government is supporting. 
The second problem that faces the arts is that they must appeal to a wider audience. I dislike the criticisms of an elite watching the arts. There will always be an elite involved in the arts. We must make that elite as large as we can. The biggest sphere of neglect in this field has been the activities in the schools. I am delighted that a joint committee of inquiry has been set up by the Australia Council and by the Schools Commission to study the arts in schools. As I said, this is an area of great neglect. If children are not exposed to what the arts are all about in school they will be lesser adults for it. We can do a great deal. I am involved with a body called the Arts Council. I think it is the major supplier of the arts to schools. The results are most encouraging. Some years ago we were sponsoring a ballet tour through the primary schools of Victoria. I took my 10-year-old son along to see the premiere. I took him along because at the time he was something of an apprentice Philistine and I thought he was a fair sample of the lowest common denominator that the ballet might have to put up with. Members of the ballet gave a very good presentation. They showed a few demonstration steps, lifts and so an and the put on a ballet of Cinderella. To my astonishment my 10-year-old son was enthralled by all this. As we left he said that he would like to learn ballet. I said: 'Why do you want to learn ballet?'.. He replied: 'Didn't you see how strong they were lifting each other up? It would be terrific training for the footy season'. This is not necessarily bad. 
It is a great breakthrough if we can get through to kids that art forms are as demanding in their own way as the sport which at that time is the kids' idol. We must see that our school children at an impressionable age are exposed to the various art forms- to what they are trying to do and what their language is. Our arts will then not be confined to an adult elite but will be spread across the community. I believe this is the most important step we can take. The arts are an essential part of a civilised man. Every great society provides opportunities for its citizens to enjoy the arts. This is our task and this is what we are doing. 
-The Industries Assistance Commission report on Government assistance to the performing arts has been described as having an effect like a hungry cat let loose in a cage of canaries. Certainly it has caused widespread consternation among nearly all involved in the performing arts. The Government members arts committee has considered this report and believes that its adoption by the Government would be disastrous. The IAC has asked nearly all the right questions about the arts and deduced nearly all the wrong answers. It has tried to quantify the unquantifiable and assumed that what it could not quantify did not exist. That is not entirely the fault of the IAC. The arts are not an industry and should never have been referred to the Industries Assistance Commission by the then Prime Minister. It was a downright silly inquiry, as the Financial Review put it. The difficulty for the IAC is that it is bound by its Act to base its inquiries almost exclusively on economic criteria. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the relevant section of the Act. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to Press reports that during his recent visit to Indonesia he made a secret agreement with the  President  of Indonesia? Is there any truth in these reports? 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the widespread interest in the community in the structure of the radio and television industry? Is there a strong desire for improvements in the standard of radio and television without political control or bias? Does the Green report tackle these problems? When will the Minister be tabling this report and will there be an opportunity for the House to debate its conclusions? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister received any assessment of the performance of Australian armed forces during Exercise Kangaroo II? How well did our forces perform and were any deficiencies in equipment or training revealed? 
Does the Prime Minister view the situation in Victoria concerning the Newport power station as a clear challenge to the right of an elected government to make decisions affecting the whole community? Will the Prime Minister take action complementary to that taken by the Victorian Government by stopping work on all possible federal building contracts until the members of construction unions force their leaders to come to their senses and stop trying to usurp the role of the elected Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What was (a) the make, (b) the country of design and (c) the country of manufacture of each car supplied to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Mission in the half year ended 30 June 1976. 
In cases where the cars were not of Australian design and manufacture, what were the reasons for the non-supply of an Australian car. 
I want to draw to the attention of the House a very unsatisfactory situation with regard to the supply of cars to our Ambassadors and Heads of Missions overseas. In answer to my question No. 76, the Minister for Administrative Services said that it was the policy of his Department to supply overseas posts with Australian vehicles 'where the price, including freight, location and suitability of the vehicle, availability of spare parts and effective after-sales service make it reasonable for such a vehicle to be supplied '. 
That sounds fine, but does it work? I accept that there are cost problems in supplying Australian cars to countries with left-hand drive cars. These cost problems can be overcome and I will take this matter up on a later occasion. I would like to tackle some more flagrant problems first. I admit also that there are foreign cars more expensive, more luxurious and more mechanically advanced than is any Australian car. Yet an Australian car such as the Statesman Caprice is fully adequate for any ambassador. I have the answer to my question No. 1429 showing details of the cars supplied to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Missions during the 6 months ending 30 June this year. There were 13 such cars. All but three were foreign made cars. The honourable exceptions were in Jakarta, where a Holden is in use; in Karachi where a Holden is also in use and in Kuala Lumpur where a Ford is in use. 
I applaud these choices although I point out that a Ford, is for these special purposes, a less suitable choice than a Holden because it is not readily identifiable as Australian. It is the duty of an Australian ambassador to use publicly Australian products where possible. We are a major industrial nation, one of the few with an indigenous motor car industry. If our ambassadors reject our products, how can we expect our overseas customers to have confidence in these products? Could one imagine a French ambassador, for instance, doing such a thing? 
If the Minister's guidelines were, in fact, followed there would be no problem but it does not work that way. Ambassadors in practice have a major say in what car is supplied to them. Although there are exceptions, too many of them prefer to swank around in Rolls Royces or Mercedes Benz instead of a perfectly adequate Australian car such as the Statesman Caprice. They have added to their cultural cringe a weird sort of industrial cringe. Let us look at some of these examples. A Mercedes Benz was supplied for our Head of Mission in Johannesburg, South Africa. Why was this done? We export cars to South Africa and our Head of Mission should certainly use one. A Mercedes Benz was provided for the Head of Mission in Hong Kong. There are many Australian cars in Hong Kong. Why does our representative not drive one himself? In Dublin, Ireland, the American Ambassador drives an Australian built Statesman Caprice. Yet our Ambassador drives a German built Mercedes Benz. What country is he supposed to be representing? 
This situation is simply not good enough. The Minister's guidelines have been flagrantly flouted. To assist him in imposing these guidelines on our Ambassadors and Heads of Mission, I hereby give notice that in the estimates debates next year I shall move for a reduction in the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services by the value of any non-Australian cars supplied during 1976-77 to our ambassadors overseas, except in cases where the supply of an Australian car was clearly impracticable. I hope for wide support for such a motion from both sides of the House. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I ask: When  Her  Majesty the Queen decides who shall be her representative as Governor of an Australian State is she acting in her capacity as Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or in her capacity as Queen of Australia? Does the Statute of 
Westminster affect this position? When she is acting as Queen of Australia, are her appropriate advisers the Australian Government or the British Government? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the dissatisfaction at the apparent over-charging for passenger and visitor services at Tullamarine Airport, Melbourne. 
What is (a) the cost of administering and (b) the income from the parking facility at the Airport. 
With regard to the shops and services, e.g. restaurants, garage (a) how are the occupiers selected for these monopolies or near-monopolies, ( b ) how often are the leases reviewed and (c) what control has he over charges and standards of service. 
-Every country's strategy is determined largely by its geography and this is the case with Australia. The needs of our geography and of our pattern of trade dictate that this country should pursue a maritime strategy. Any country pursuing a maritime strategy must be prepared, at least for a time, to pursue its ends largely on its own. This is the most important change in the new defence White Paper. It clearly states-  ( Quorum formed.)  As I was saying, our geography and pattern of trade dictate that we should pursue a maritime strategy. This requires a capability to act on our own, if necessary. This concept is not new. I can remember, as a member of the joint planning staff in 1959, putting forward such a concept. At the time the Government quite properly asked what would be the consequences of this change in strategy on our force composition. This was duly provided and, by one of the neatest pea and thimble tricks of which I have ever heard, the Government accepted the force structure and rejected the strategy assessment on which it was based. Times have changed since then and now this concept is an idea whose time has come. It is helped, too, by another change in recent defence planning- that is, the announcement of expenditure of $ 12,000m over 5 years to provide for the defence of Australia which, for the first time, allows the 5-year rolling program to be effective. 
I hope that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  will draw the attention of his Cabinet colleagues to the fact that devaluation will necessitate an increase in this amount for the equipment to be derived from overseas because the undertaking was that $A12,000m would be in 1 976 prices. It is very important that we should not cut back on necessary overseas equipment. When we are providing the defence forces with equipment to do what we have to do on our own it is important that they should be equipped properly but not excessively for this role. The forces then might not make an ideal contribution to an allied force but they would be capable of doing that which we must do on our own. That should be their role. What might the defence forces have to do on their own? The first thing they might have to deal with, of course, is lowlevel threats- such as guerillas, confrontation over seabeds, confrontations over rights of passage in the air or on sea, or even conceivably the dispatch of an overseas force to prevent from taking place in our area events which we would regard as contrary to our interests. In this area I find that the White Paper is rather gentle. It shows all the hallmarks of being a committee document. One remark to which I would like to draw attention appears in paragraph 28 of chapter 3 and is as follows: 
Our assessments of the international situation have not revealed any present likelihood of our being called upon to provide any direct military assistance to our allies or other defence associates. Were this sort of situation to arise in future, in certain circumstances we would be able usefully to support local forces by making available equipments or skills in which they were deficient 
Well, that is true; but I hope that where necessary we will be able to do a great deal more than provide equipments and skills, because these operations might be vital to our security and our survival. 
The second doubt I have about an understatement in the White Paper concerns Indonesia. I refer to paragraph 38 of chapter 2, which states: 
The Indonesian archipelago, together with Papua New Guinea, would be an important factor in any offensive military strategy against Australia. 
Those countries are more than important; they are vital. Any defence strategy which does not recognise this is not truly founded. I am sure that the Minister for Defence does realise this. However, I think we should state clearly in this House that the Indonesian archipelago is the key to our defence and we must always recognise that fact. 
We must, of course, be able to co-operate with our allies. I would like to draw attention to the remarks in the White Paper about the Indian Ocean. They are not overstated, as alleged by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  In fact, I think they are a true statement of the situation. I welcome the decision made by this Government to expedite the construction of the naval base in Western Australia. This is a very important step forward. I also welcome the support this Government has given to the establishment of the base at Deigo Garcia. I do not think anyone in this country wishes to see a confrontation between the super powers in the Indian Ocean, but it takes 4 to 5 years to build up the infrastructure which makes it possible to base a fleet in that Ocean. The Russians have such an infrastructure now at Berbera; the Americans do not. What we should do now is encourage them to build the infrastructure, to build the base, so that if they need to do so they can base a fleet in the Indian Ocean. It is no use waiting until the requirement is there to start building one's infrastructure. It is very important that this country, as one of the countries most affected, should make this clear to the Americans. 
The other level of threat we must consider is that of actual invasion. I do not think anyone could envisage this at present, except in a situation of world chaos, probably in the aftermath of a nuclear exchange. In our defence planning we should look at this situation. Again I think that the defence White Paper is a little bland in this area. This is what it says about the possibility of a nuclear exchange: 
Given the enormous risks from military conflict, on all traditional calculations the restraints on use of force between the 2 powers- 
That is America and Russia- and the framework of their co-operation should endure. 
Well, I hope so; but I do not think that is necessarily the belief of either Russia or America. I think they take the risks of a nuclear exchange very much more seriously than that, and we must look at what our situation would be in the aftermath of such an exchange. I do not believe that we would be a target, except possibly for North West Cape and installations in central Australia. We would not be a target; we would be a prize. We have to examine what our defence industrial situation would be in the aftermath of such a nuclear exchange. This is an area which the defence White Paper does not explore, perhaps for security reasons; but I think it is one that we should keep in mind. 
Despite my strong support for the main thrust of the White Paper, I have a number of qualms about it- mainly in areas we have inherited from the previous Government, although in other cases they have been going on for some years. I am concerned about some of the implications which are read into the core force. The core force, as I see it, is the regular force which must be prepared to deal with the immediate low level threat and which also must be capable of expansion to meet a higher level threat. There is a great danger, though, in our staff structure, that this core force will be equipped with a tiny number of highly sophisticated weapons which would be too elaborate, too expensive and too few for the task the core force would have to do on its own and which would be an unsuitable basis for the mass expansion that would be required to build up the major force. I am sure that the Government is aware of this and I believe that it must take the necessary steps to control this inevitable escalation. Risks must be run in peace as well as in war. 
I also am suspicious of one aspect of the core force when we talk about having this to keep up with the state of the art. It is one way of keeping up with the state of the art, but in many cases it is a wildly extravagant way of doing so. I cite one example: The British invented the tank and between the 2 world wars they kept a core force of tanks in operation. The Germans were forbidden tanks by the Versailles Treaty, yet when the Second World War came they were far ahead. They were able to be in that position because they had studied the subject, they had seconded their officers to other countries such as Russia, in particular, to operate with other people, and they had husbanded their resources. They were able to expand on a much better basis than a country which had kept a core force in existence. I merely draw to the attention of the Minister for Defence the fact that the state of the art does not necessarily dictate that we should have a tiny force of highly sophisticated weapons of every type. 
I want to refer now to suggestions we hear about Army operations on a large scale in northern Australia. I think we get involved in a circular argument. There is no way in which we could maintain, say, a division in northern Australia, except with supply by sea. If we can supply it by sea, that means that we have command of the sea. If we have command of the sea, the requirement for such a large force does not arise. We have to be very careful that we do not get involved in a circular and totally irrelevant argument. I believe that the role of the Army in northern Australia is to be sufficiently mobile and quick reacting to cause any potential invading force to concentrate in such a way that it would be destroyed by our maritime forces. This was the role of the British Army prior to 1 9 1 4 and it is a very proper and effective role for our Army. A battalion there before a landing is very much more valuable than a division going there 3 weeks later. We need a small, highly mobile and efficient Army. 
With regard to deterrents, on which the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  touched, by far the most efficient deterrent to an invasion is a submarine force. I draw the attention of the House to a fact that we must consider soon, namely, that any future submarines we order almost certainly will have to be nuclear powered. There are no diesel electric powered submarines of a modern type available in the world now. If we want to get a new type of submarine it will have to be nuclear powered. 
I would like to make a couple of remarks about the Department of Defence. I think it is well known that I do not entirely approve of the structure. I am delighted that the Minister has established the Defence Council. I hope that it soon will grow into a body established by statute and one which has collective responsibility for all the affairs of the Department of Defence; that its members will be chosen on a functional basis; and that the number of professional people on it, when its structure is changed, will be appropriate to the profession of arms. I would like to say one other thing about the Department of Defence: We seem to be getting an enormously top heavy structure, with  deputy  secretaries, first assistant secretaries, and so on. Unfortunately, this is being matched by a similar rise in the uniformed personnel. One could not fire a revolver down one of the corridors of power at Russell Hill these days without knocking off about 50 stars. If we look at the proportion of senior officer in our Armed Services- that is brigadier and above- we have one to every 697 men. The Unites States has one to every 2127 men. That country proportionately, has one-third of the number of senior officers we have. 
I shall take a different example in the Australian setting. In the Second World War we had a Navy of 40 000 and we had 3 admirals and 3 commodores. Now, with a Navy of 16 000 we have 8 admirals and 12 commodores- three times as many. The structure is getting out of line. I give one further example: A DDG manned by the Americans has one commander among the senior officers, while one of our DDGs has one captain and 4 commanders. The reason is that because we have this high structure ashore we have to provide suitable sea billets for people of all ranks. The top heaviness of our structure ashore means that it is the tail wagging the dog. I think we have to straighten this out in the interests of the efficiency of our Services. If we have too many senior officers we will become regarded as the army of Oz. Also there are things in junior ranks one can learn and do which people promoted too high can no longer do. 
I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 2, 1 shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the following question should be put to the citizens of Australia in a poll on the occasion of the next election for the House of Representatives: 
Do you approve of industrial action by way of strikes or work bans being carried out by certain sections of the trade union movement when this action has no relation to industrial disputes? 
-Can the Treasurer tell the House what would be the cost of recently suggested changes to the conditions under which women can gain the unemployment benefit? Can he also tell the House whether these changes would be a genuine contribution to those in need? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank you for drawing the attention of the House to the importance of the debate. I deeply regret that the Opposition is trying to stifle this debate. 
Motion (by  Mr Scholes)  put: 
That the honourable member for Isaacs be not further heard. 
-About the only thing I agreed with in the tirade by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  was that this debate is of great national importance. Unfortunately, his contribution demeans this debate. I suppose he has his problems. It was more in the nature of a campaign speech for the  deputy  leadership.  His  main concern seemed to be the number of copies of the report in the Bills and Papers Office. That seemed a trivial matter in such a debate. But I resented his statement that we were supporting the mine owners and speaking for them. I plan to speak for Australia and I wish I felt that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was doing likewise. I agree with the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  that there should be a joint policy on this important issue. There cannot be a time when one government has one policy on this issue and the succeeding government has another policy. That uncertainty is intolerable. This is a Party matter; it is a national matter. The statement by the Labor Party that it would revoke contracts entered into under this Government was totally irresponsible. 
What we must do also is to achieve community acceptance of our conclusions- acceptance by business and acceptance by unions but not, if I may say, by the extreme left-wing unions. They are not interested in accepting something in Australia's interests. We must get acceptance by the board run of the sensible trade union which make up the great majority. I wish I could think that we could solve this problem by a joint select committee- perhaps unusually a joint select committee of Ministers- to hack out an acceptable joint policy. But the Opposition shadow Ministers are so bound by the rules of their Caucus that such a course, desirable though it is, would be quite unworkable. This is a very difficult debate because on a highly technical subject many extreme statements are being made. To some extent it reminds me of the debate we had a few years ago on fluoride because of the extreme statements which in my view were quite - 
On any scientific subject it is always possible to get a conflict of scientific views but what a Parliament must do is to weigh the quality not merely the quantity of the representation it receives. What we must try to judge things by is fact and not emotions. This is what the task of this House is tonight and in future debates. I would like to emphasise that this debate is not about nuclear power stations in Australia. There are no such plans. What we are talking about is the mining, the milling, the export and possibly the processing of uranium. On this issue the Fox report said this: 
In considering the evidence we have found that many wildly exaggerated statements are made about the risks and dangers of nuclear energy production by those opposed to it. 
Having listened to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition we can be in no doubt that this is true. What is the present situation as regards nuclear energy? There are 200 reactors in use today in 20 countries. By the mid 1 980s there will be 500 reactors in 30 countries. As for the resources of energy, if the fast breeder reactors are successfuland they will improve the effective use of uranium by a factor of about 30- the energy content of known uranium reserves will exceed that of known fossil fuel reserves.  (Quorum formed)  Despite the protestations of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition it is obvious that he is more concerned to stifle debate on the uranium issue than he is to encourage it. What are the alternatives to the use of nuclear energy? There is, of course, solar energy. The United States energy authority estimated in 1975 that an 'aggressive but potentially attainable' rate of solar energy could supply  1  per cent of United States energy needs by the year 2000 and the United Kingdom estimate is similar. That is a useful contribution but not a major one. We are doing much in the field of solar energy and we should do more. I am delighted to see that the Department of National Resources is pursuing this. I think we should consider whether we should not have a special levy on uranium exports to be used for the development of solar energy. This levy would use the present source of power generation to provide the research for the future and it is a course of action that we should consider. The other principal source of alternative energy supply is, of course, fossil fuel and coal is by far the most plentiful. The Fox report on page 1 13 said this about coal: 
It can be seen that the environmental hazards of fossil fuel are severe, particularly in the case of coal . . . 
I have here a satire written by a nuclear scientist headed 'On the Feasibility of Coal-Driven Power Stations'. He is purporting to be looking back from a few thousand years hence at the feasibility of coal stations and he draws the same sort of difficulties and objections to coal power stations that are now being drawn in the community to nuclear power stations. I seek leave to incorporate this in  Hansard.  It is well worth study by all honourable members. 

 The document read as follows- 

ON THE FEASIBILITY OF COAL-DRIVEN POWER STATIONS 
R. Frisch 
A noted European physicist takes time out from his research to interject a humorous and carefully constructed satire into the atomic developments.  Dr Frisch  is a Jacksonian Professor of Natural Philosophy at the University of Cambridge, England. 
The recent discovery of coal (black, fossilized plant remains) in a number of places offers an interesting alternative to the production of power from fission. Some of the places where coal has been found show indeed signs of previous exploitation by prehistoric men who, however, probably used it for jewels and to blacken their faces at religious ceremonies. 
The power potentialities depend on the fact that coal can be readily oxidized with the production of a high temperature and an energy of about 0.0000001 megawatt day per gram. That is, of course, very little, but large amounts of coal (perhaps millions of tons) appear to be available. 
The chief advantage is that the critical amount is very much smaller for coal than for any fissile material. Fission plants become, as is well known, uneconomical below 30 megawatts, and a coal-driven plant may be competitive for isolated communities (such as small islands) with small power requirements. 
Design of a Coal Reactor 
The main problem is to achieve free, yet controlled, access of oxygen to the fuel elements. The kinetics of the coaloxygen reaction are much more complicated than fission kinetics, and not yet completely understood. A differential equation which approximates the behaviour of the reaction has been set up, but its solution is possible only in the simplest cases. 
It is therefore proposed to make the reaction vessel in the form of a cylinder, with perforated walls to allow the combustion gases to escape. A concentric inner cylinder, also perforated, serves to introduce the oxygen, while the fuel elements are placed between the two cylinders. The necessary presence of end plates poses a difficult but not insoluble mathematical problem. 
Fuel Elements 
It is likely that these will be easier to manufacture than in the case of fission reactors. Canning is unnecessary and indeed undesirable since it would make it impossible for the oxygen to gain access to the fuel. Various lattices have been calculated, and it appears that the simplest of all- close packing of equal spheres- is likely to be satisfactory. Computations are in progress to determine the optimum size of the spheres and the required tolerances. Coal is soft and easy to machine; so the manufacture of the spheres should present no major problem. 
Oxidant 
Pure oxygen is of course ideal but costly; it is therefore proposed to use air in the first place. However, it must be remembered that air contains 78 per cent of nitrogen. If even a fraction of that combined with the carbon of the coal to form the highly toxic gas cyanogene this would constitute a grave health hazard (see below). 
Operation and Control 
To start the reaction one requires a fairly high temperature of about 988 F; this is most conveniently achieved by passing an electric current between the inner and outer cylinder (the end plates being made of insulating ceramic). A current of several thousand amps is needed, at some 30 volts, and the required large storage battery will add substantially to the cost of the installation. 
There is the possibility of starting the reaction by some auxiliary self-starting reaction, such as that between phosphine and hydrogen peroxide; this is being looked into. 
Once the reaction is started its rate can be controlled by adjusting the rate at which oxygen is admitted; this is almost as simple as the use of control rods in a conventional fission reactor. 
Corrosion 
The walls of the reactor must withstand a temperature of well over a 1000 F in the presence of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide and dioxide, as well as small amounts of sulphur dioxide and other impurities, some still unknown. Few metals or ceramics can resist such gruelling conditions. Niobium with a thin lining of nickel might be an attractive possibility, but probably solid nickel will have to be used. For the ceramic, fused thoria appears to be the best bet. 
Health Hazards 
The main health hazard is attached to the gaseous waste products. They contain not only carbon monoxide and sulphur dioxide (both highly toxic) but also a number of carcinogenic compounds such as phenanthrene and others. To discharge those into the air is impossible; it would cause the tolerance level to be exceeded for several miles around the reactor. 
It is therefore necessary to collect the gaseous waste in suitable containers, pending chemical detoxification. Alternatively, the waste might be mixed with hydrogen and filled with large balloons which are subsequently released. 
The solid waste products will have to be removed at frequent intervals (perhaps as often as daily), but the health hazards involved in that operation can easily be minimised  by the use of conventional remote-handling equipment. The waste could then be taken out to sea and dumped. 
There is a possibility- though it may seem remote- that the oxygen supply may get out of control; this would lead to melting of the entire reactor and the liberation of vast amounts of toxic gases. Here is a grave argument against the use of coal and in favor of fission reactors which have proved their complete safety over a period of several thousand years. It will probably take decades before a control system of sufficient reliability can be evolved to allay the fears of those to whom the safety of our people is entrusted. 
What are the advantages for Australia of developing her uranium resources? All we are considering here is the mining and milling of them and possibly the enrichment of them. It has been assessed that by 1985 the uranium industry could be earning between $ 1,100m and $l,500m per year on 1976 money values. We should compare this with the current earnings from wool of about $ 1,000m or from mineral exports of about $3, 500m. Also the uranium industry could be employing about 2000 people directly and probably supporting some 8000 more. These are major advantages. What then are the disadvantages? In mining and milling 3 million tons of ore were processed in Australia between 1954 and 1971 and the safety record of these operations was excellent. It was better by far than that for coal mining. There are problems, I must admit, but they are not insuperable problems. The yellow cake itself is only slightly radioactive as nearly all the uranium decayed products are removed from the ore during milling. It presents no problems if it is freed of its toxic substances. The main hazards with yellow cake arise from the tailings left over after the uranium is extracted from the ore. This contains all the radioactive decayed products of the uranium which is responsible for most of the radioactivity in the original ore. In the original ore there is a much larger body of nonradioactive rock. Milling converts this material into finely ground powder which is much more easily dispersed. The question of handling is something which must be looked at. It is not difficult and it has been overcome in many parts of the world. We can foresee no reasonable problem there that cannot be overcome. That is all that directly concerns Australia. We are not proposing to have nuclear power generation in Australia now. The handling and disposal of radioactive waste resulting from nuclear power generation lies with the countries which receive uranium from us. It is not our direct responsibility. Provided we are satisfied that uranium is not going to be misused, we have no moral right to impose our judgment on other countries. They must make their own assessment of the economic value of the uranium against the risk, if any. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  continues to attempt to stifle debate. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in this national debate there are only 3 Labor members present in the House. As I was saying, we have no moral right to impose our views on other countries. They must make their own assessments of the economic value of our uranium. 
Countries must make their own decisions about the economic value of our uranium against any risks the use of uranium may impose on their communities. What is the risk? The figures in the well known Rasmussen report suggest that of 15 million people living within 24 miles of planned and present United States nuclear power stations, the loss through accidents in motor cars would be 4200 killed; from falls 1500 killed; from fire 560 killed; from electrocution 90 killed; from lightning 28 killed and from nuclear power stations a possible 2 killed. No death, in fact, has ever occurred as a result of accidents in nuclear power stations. It can be seen that the person living alongside a nuclear station is more likely to be killed by a lightning strike than by a power station. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Isaacs be granted an extension qf time. 
Opposition members- Yes. 

 The bells being rung 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the makes and countries of manufacture of new official cars provided to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Mission in the 6 months ended 3 1 December 1 976. 
In the case of cars not of Australian manufacture, what was the cost of the car in each case. 
-Because it was put to me that to be discussing possible tax cuts publicly was undesirable but at the same time the Prime Minister and the Treasurer agreed to consider it as part of the deal. 
There you are. Enough of your deceit. The Victorian Premier - 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister anything to tell the House about the petrol transport drivers' strike in Victoria? Is that State being held to ransom by a few hundred individuals seeking special advantages for themselves? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Is it over a year since the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries ( Horton Report) was delivered to the Minister. 
If so, what action has been taken in regard to the recommendations of the report. 
I do not propose to follow the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  down the fascinating byways of the labyrinth of the Australian Workers Union. I would like to deal with some of the points made, apparently seriously, by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who seems to lurch from absurdity to absurdity in his desperate search for left wing votes for the forthcoming Labor Party leadership election. He seems as uncomfortable in matters of security as he notoriously is in matters of economics. In both of these fields, as I think I have told the House before, his learning curve seems to be a horizontal straight line. What he said to the House today was very interesting. He said- and I took down his words: 'I have not breached and shall not breach such confidences'. He was referring to security matters, both foreign and those affecting our national interest. He may have forgotten, but I am sure that this House will not have forgotten, his blundering indiscretion over the communications stations in Singapore which caused great embarrassment to the Government of Singapore and did great damage to our intelligence organisations. It was a blunder of the first order. 
Then we come to another matter that the Leader of the Opposition mentioned today- the cable from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He said: 'The method of leaking was not important'. I suppose he may think that but I would say that there is a strong prima facie case for thinking that the leak came either from his office or from his organisation. No wonder he thinks that the method of leaking is not important. He also said: 'I vouch for its authenticity'. That makes a leaked document accepted as fact and that is a thing a responsible public figure should never do. I think it is another act of gross indiscretion on security matters on the part of the Leader of the Opposition. I turn now to the motion before us which we have a tendency to forget. The motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition is: 
The need for parliamentary scrutiny of foreign intelligence services in Australia. 
I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition made much of a case for this; in fact he talked about practically everything else. I think that one can sum up his method of addressing himself to these problems by saying that his chart is excellent but his grain is very poor stuff. What he said was all against the United States, our allies. He said nothing about the possible activities of other foreign intelligence services. For instance, he said nothing about the KGB. He said nothing about any Chinese activities; it was all about American activities. I believe that the underlying motive in all this debate is the strong, almost virulent anti-Americanism, and as such it is to be deplored because America is a strong and honourable ally of ours and one which deserves our respect. 
All foreign intelligence activities in this country are illegal, whether they are carried out by friends or enemies. No country is legally entitled to conduct intelligence activities in this country except by the express approval of the Australian Government. What the Leader of the Opposition has proposed is that any such activity should be monitored, investigated, and controlled by a parliamentary committee. He refrained, perhaps understandably, from suggesting how this committee might go about its activities. In fact the operations of foreign agents in this country are the responsibility of ASIO which necessarily works in secret and reports to the Minister. It is ultimately responsible to the Parliament. The head of ASIO-  Mr Justice  Woodward- was appointed by the Whitlam Government. What this proposal in fact says, in essence, is that the Opposition has no confidence in the direction of ASIO. That is not my opinion. I think ASIO does an excellent job under very difficult circumstances. 
There is no practical way in which ASIO's activities could be taken over or controlled by a parliamentary committee. Imagine the grandstanding and the political arguments that would go on in such a committee. Imagine the fruitless discussions that would go on as to whether the Central Intelligence Agency was financing the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia or the Arabs were financing the Australian Labor Party. It would be a sterile and completely pointless exercise. The essence of dealing with foreign agents is security. One cannot blazon all of one's activities in public. If one did that one's operations would become totally ineffective. It is a difficult area and one that can be conducted only by an organisation in which this House has confidence and which operates essentially in secrecy. I say again that the essence of the proposal is a vote of no confidence in the direction of ASIO and the head of ASIO who was appointed by the Whitlam Government. By the way, a very strong motive to destroy ASIO seems to exist in some parts of the Labor Party. I think those parts are worried because this organisation does watch foreign subversives. I find it very ominous that so many people should seek to destroy this important bulwark of our national security and safety. 
If the Leader of the Opposition were serious about improving our security he could take a couple of very simple steps- and take them soon. The leaking of documents- government documents, official records- is extremely damaging to our reputation. Other countries can have no confidence in telling us things that are beneficial to us if they fear that the next thing they will see is their statements headlined in newspapers all over the world. If this practice persists we will find that we have become an outcast for the receipt of confidential exchanges from other countries. In my view one of the most alarming events of recent times has been the number of documents of a high security nature, which are supposedly in the hands of very few people, which nave been appearing in newspapers. I do not think we will ever be able to identify exactly where these documents have come from, but I would say that there is a very strong  prima facie  case for saying that they have come from either the Leader of the Opposition or his Party organisation. If the Leader of the Opposition is genuinely interested in improving the. security of this country and its international reputation that is the first leak he should plug. 
I move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the following question should be put to the citizens of Australia in a poll on the occasion of the next election for the House of Representatives: 'Do you approve of industrial action by way of strikes or work bans being carried out by certain sections of the 
Trade Union Movement, where this action has no relation to industrial disputes '. 
In moving this motion I would like to preface my remarks by making clear the position from which I speak. I do not speak to denigrate in any way trade unions or trade unionism. I am not involved in what is called a 'union bash'. I have respect for the trade unions as an institution integral to our free society and as bodies that protect ordinary citizens of this country in many aspects of their work situation. I am aware also of the historical contribution made by the trade union movement to the development of Australia. I speak, however, to draw attention to the activities of some individuals within trade unions who bring disrepute on the union movement and whose activities, if they continue, can only adversely affect our community. 
An election for the House of Representatives is due to be held in 1978 or 1979. At that time the citizens of Australia again will be asked to decide who should govern the nation. At that time I believe it important for the electors of Australia also to be asked whether they approve of political strikes and work bans. This is becoming a vital issue because no matter which party is in power, no matter which group has been elected via the political process, there are some groups in our society holding key positions who are determined to make political decisions on behalf of the whole community without reference to and often in defiance of the parliamentary process. I refer, of course, to strikes and work bans enforced by sections of the trade union movement for political purposes. This question of political strikes is a vital one for the community and, I believe, will become more urgent if current trends continue. Over the past few years we have seen numerous politically motivated strikes and bans- the Medibank strike; bans on Indonesian shipping; bans on United States nuclearpowered warships entering our ports, in clear contravention of the ANZAAS Treaty; bans on building of roads and other structures and bans on demolition of various buildings. 
Some unions have so broadened the scope of their activities that the stage has been reached where there is virtually no area of political, social or econmic life upon which they are not prepared to take direct action in support of their aims and views. This is not to say that I believe it is wrong for unions to express views on matters affecting society or on the actions of government. In a liberal democracy this is a legitimate course of action for all groups and all individuals. As a member of this Parliament I have met with trade union representatives and discussed their views on various economic and industrial matters. But it is one thing to tender advice and seek to influence government policy; it is quite another to attempt to impose decisions on governments and on the community. It is the latter phenomenon we have been seeing repeatedly in recent years. I can understand unions or individual unionists refusing to carry out some particular work on the grounds that they morally object to it and could not be a party to it. There are parallels in the medical profession, for instance, where some doctors or nurses will not take part in certain medical operations. One might think this reasonable. I do not advocate forcing people to perform work they find morally abhorrent. However, it is one thing for a person to say: 'I will not carry out this task' but completely different for a person to say: 'I will not carry out this task and nor shall anyone else'. This is essentially how some militant unions operate. They not only withdraw their own labour but also, through threats, intimidation and arranging boycotts from other unions, ensure that others are unable to exercise freely their right to supply their own labour. 
The cost to the community of political strikes can be enormous. I give but 2 examples: The bans on the construction of Melbourne's Newport power station have delayed for years the building of this vital component of Melbourne's future electricity supply. Some unionists still wish to prevent it being built and to prevent others from doing so. The prospect of future power shortages in Melbourne is looming. There can be no doubt that the jobs of many will be affected. Yet this group of union militants considers it has the right to block the decision of the Government overwhelmingly elected by the people of Victoria. Another example of a political work ban is the question of the shipment of wheat to Chile. The union ban on wheat sales to Chile was imposed in 1973 because of the overthrow of the communist government in Chile. The ban is blatantly political. Before the union ban, Chile ranked high among Australia's wheat customers. In the 3 years from 1971 to 1974 Chile bought almost l.S million tonnes of Australian wheat. It was our fourth largest customer in 1971-72, but since 1973-74 we have sold no wheat to Chile. This was action that can only adversely affect our farmers, and frankly I cannot see how it assists the people of Chile. 
If I might digress for a moment, I marvel at the selective conscience of some unions. One wonders why there is not a ban on wheat sales and other export to the Soviet Union- a nation notorious for its suppression of human rights, for locking up dissidents in psychiatric hospitals and harassment of ethnic groups. I believe this inconsistency gives a clear indication of the political motives of such militant unionists. On the question of wheat sales to Chile, former Australian Labor Party Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  said: 
It is a matter for the government of the day to make a judgment as to whether Australia continues to trade with a country, and on what basis. I do not think it is the role of any group in the community to make decisions of the nature of these loading bans. 
I agree with that. The principle inherent is clear. It is the Parliament, the body elected directly by the people of Australia, that should make decisions relating to the Government of the nation, not groups of unionists. It is abhorrent that such small groups have the ability to obstruct government decision making. It is abhorrent that we are confronted with groups not merely expressing their views on some issues but, through their ability to create chaos and to disrupt the community, attempting to impose their views on government. On the whole those who have supported these political strikes have shown themselves to be the enemies of democratic processes. Communist influence in many of our biggest and most important unions is strong. These people have no desire to make the present democratic system work. Their aim is to destroy it. The Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, Australia's largest union, has several communists in critical posts. The seamen, waterside workers, locomotive enginemen, the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association, the building workers and building labourers also have communists in senior positions in their unions. 
With this in mind it is interesting to examine the justification given for political strikes. We are told that political strikes are carried out on behalf of the community, because the Parliament does not really represent the people. It is claimed that direct action is needed to make the so called voice of the people' heard. It is sheer nonsense to claim that the interest of the community in general is best served through a process of extraparliamentary action. It is nonsense to claim that the union movement is more representative than the Parliament. It should not be overlooked that trade union membership makes up only 20 per cent of the population, less than 60 per cent of the workforce and only a third of the voting public. The falsity of the claim of the union militants is further exposed when one sees that many unions have expressed their opposition to political strikes. For instance, the Tasmanian branch of the Shop Assistants Union stated: 
Unions have a traditional industrial role and the strike weapon should not be used for political purposes and issues . . . Redress is in the ballot box at periodic elections. 
The Federated Clerks Union stated: 
Political strikes constitute an attack on both the institution of trade unions as well as the democratic method of government. 
I agree strongly with those sentiments. Further it is interesting to note that the Morgan gallup poll taken last year indicated that 75 per cent of people are opposed to political strikes. Even a l arge majority of ALP supporters believed them to be unjustified. And of course, as I pointed out, there is also a large section of the union movement opposed to this sort of action. In spite of all this, the extreme radical minority persists in its claim of representing the people. It continues its attempts to intimidate elected governments, allegedly on behalf of the people. 
Given the ability of the extremists to create chaos and the importance of this issue to the future of this society, it is my belief that their claim should be put to rest once and for all. The only way that this can be done is simply by consulting the people the militants claim to represent. At the same time as the next election for the House of Representatives a referendum should be held on the question. All citizens would then be given a clear opportunity to give their opinion on whether these political strikes are justified, on whether they feel that the Parliament or the union militants really represent them, on whether political strikes and work bans are justified. 
The holding of referendums has a long history in democracies. Issues of great importance often have been put to the people directly. In the United States of America some 2 1 of its 50 States have provision for referendums. In the largest State, California, at the last State elections some 15 questions were put to the vote. Similarly a referendum was held in the United Kingdom on the question of joining the European Economic Community- a matter of great importance. In Australia, constitutional questions are put directly to the people, as was the question of conscription during the First World War. Some might claim that the holding of a referendum is an abdication of the responsibility of parliament, of the principles of representative government. However, it is the representative nature of parliament that is being challenged by the militants. It is a question of confidence in the parliamentary process. This question must be put directly to the people. 
I turn to the question of the value of holding a referendum. Many here might endorse my remarks about political strikes yet doubt the value of putting this question directly to the people. It is my belief that a referendum would b e of value in many respects. In making these remarks I take it for granted that Australians would vote overwhelmingly against political strikes. Firstly, it would once and for all remove all pretence that the militants are working on behalf of the people. It would remove all moral justification for their actions. If they persist they and their ideology would be discredited in the eyes of the public. As these strikes in some instances are part of a political process partly aimed at gaining public support this would act as a brake on their actions. 
Secondly, one needs to examine the position of the moderate union officer. Moderates are aware that their unions can exercise political power, even if they believe it incorrect to use the power in this direction. They are constantly being urged to use their union's potential political leverage even if this disrupts the community. A clear decision by the people in a referendum on this issue would be a powerful propaganda weapon for the moderate to use against militants in defence of his position. He could hardly be accused of selling out the people's interests in refusing to participate in a political strike if the people had clearly shown that they did not approve of such behaviour. 
Thirdly, a referendum expressing the desires of the people could be of use as a guideline for industrial courts when disciplinary actions are brought against unions. When the case is put, for example, to deregister a union, the court when considering the record of the union in political strikes could be guided by the views expressed in such a referendum. Deregistration of a union is a powerful weapon if there is another organisation ready to fill the gap thus created. In short, I believe there is good reason to believe that a referendum is of value to the community. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I pointed out to the House the great dangers to the community represented by political strikes. I made it quite clear that I was in no way opposed to unions or to strike action in pursuit of legitimate industrial interests. I have advocated that there be a referendum on political strikes for 3 reasons and in the confident belief that at such a referendum the desirability of political strikes would be overwhelmingly rejected by the Australian people. 
The first of the 3 reasons that I put forward in favour of the holding of such a referendum is that it would destroy for ever the pretence that these political strikes are conducted in the interests of the community. That is something that the community should be able to decide for itself. Secondly, it would strengthen the moderate unionists in their opposition to this type of strike action in pursuit of political objectives. Thirdly, it would encourage the industrial courts to take appropriate action against unionists and union leaders who abuse their power to impose political disabilities on the community. 
The issue of political strikes and work bans is one that Australia will face more and more this decade. We cannot ignore it in the forlorn hope that it will go away. It must be faced. A referendum must be held. That would no doubt strengthen community resolve on this matter before it reaches crisis point. 
History is studded with instances of the exercise of power outside the established process of government leading to the development of authoritarian rule. What our society and this Parliament face at the present time is an exercise in freedom of action which in the long run will lead to the destruction of the system upon which that freedom of action is based. Winston Churchill once said that our system of parliamentary democracy is the worst possible form of governmentexcept for all the alternatives. And government by union militants is a very much worse alternative. A referendum on this subject would help to strengthen this Parliament and the community. It is a step that must be taken to defend our liberal democratic institutions. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to Press reports of macabre 'fun parlour' games that are said to be sweeping America. 
If so, can he say whether one of these games is a pedestrian-killer game, where a driver takes the wheel of a simulated car and attempts to knock down pedestrians and, if he succeeds, he is rewarded with an electronic scream and the appearance of a tombstone. 
Are violent games such as these possibly psychologically damaging to the players. 
Has he any power to prevent the importation of these games. 
-Of the 4 referendum questions put to the people last Saturday the most important one- the one for simultaneous elections for this House and the Senate- was lost, despite being unanimously endorsed by this House and, incidentally, endorsed at the Hobart Constitutional Convention by the Premiers of the 3 States which rejected it last Saturday. But last Saturday is history now and we have to accept the result, whatever we think of the referendum as a method of modernising the Constitution. But the problems which the simultaneous elections referendum sought to overcome are still with us, and these problems are serious. 
One can make a good case that the present 3-year term of the House of Representatives is too short. The term is 5 years in Britain and Canada, for instance. The trouble with a 3-year term is that governments often have to take- or should take- long term decisions that may be unpopular in the short term. The danger with a short term for this House is that governments will be reluctant to put forward long term policies that they know to be right, because of the imminence of an election. The situation is made much worse if the already too short interval between elections is further shortened by a separate intermediate Senate election. That is a perfect recipe for short-sighted government, and shortsight government is bad government. The suggestion that under the present system elections could be kept in line by shortening the term of the House begs the question, for it offers the problem as a solution. Perhaps even more serious is the fact that, under the Constitution as it stands, the Senate by blocking Supply can force this House into an election without itself facing the electors, unless the Senate has separately given grounds for a double dissolution. 
I supported the proposal put to the people last Saturday, because it would have improved the present situation; but I do not pretend that I think it was ideal. It was produced by the Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 and was endorsed by the 1976 Hobart Convention. It was proper that it be put to the people. But I do not believe that it was the best possible solution. It suffered from 2 defects: Firstly, it raised the possibility of shortening the terms of senators, which was justly criticised. Secondly, if the Senate, by blocking Supply, forced an election on this House, only half the Senate would have to face the electors. 
I think the problem has been tackled the wrong way round. Instead of bringing the Senate's term into line with that of the House, we should have brought the House into line with the Senate by giving the House a fixed 3-year term. Then the Senate and the House would always be in line. There would, of course, be one consequential problem. The fixed term would remove the power, effectively given to the Prime Minister, to dissolve the House before the expiration of its term. I know of nothing in the theory of responsible government that necessitates giving a Prime Minister the power to dissolve the House to suit his own political advantage. All that is needed is to have a constitutional provision that if a government cannot be formed in the House there should be an election. In these circumstances a double dissolution would be appropriate. The constitutional amendment could also conveniently cover another problem; it could provide for a double dissolution also if the Senate rejected Supply. The Constitution could simply provide that if a government cannot get Supply out of Parliament- that is both Housesthe remedy is a double dissolution. I commend this suggestion to the delegates to the Constitutional Convention to be held in Perth later this year. They must tackle this problem. It is too important to give up. 
-My question is for the Treasurer. Is it possible to implement a $800m program to stimulate the construction industry and develop employment at a net cost to the Budget of as little as $200m? What would be the real effect on the deficit of such a program? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present an interim report on 'Industrial Support for Defence Needs and Allied Matters'. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- The report on Australian defence industries is the result of what, I am sure, is the most thorough investigation of the subject ever undertaken by a parliamentary committee. Practically every plant or establishment of defence industrial significance was visited by the sub-committee. I should like to pay tribute to my colleagues on the sub-committee, the honourable members for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  and St George  (Mr Neil)  on this side of the House and the honourable members for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  on the Opposition side and  Senator Bishop  from the Senate. We all, I am sure, wish to express our gratitude to the subcommittee staff- Malcolm Hills, Dan Barton, and our special adviser Ian Fleming. Our debt to them is immense. 
In considering the requirements for defence industry, it is necessary to decide first the scale and warning time of any possible conflicts and whether overseas supplies would be available during such conflicts. The Committee has made its assumptions-for they must be assumptions; no one can prove or disprove them- as plain as possible. In one regard we have gone further than the last defence White Paper would suggest. We have considered what might happen if Australia were thrown back on her own resources, as nearly happened in 1942 and might happen again. We believe the Australian public should be aware of the gaps that would exist in such circumstances, for such awareness is an important step towards the exercise of balanced judgment and the initiation of reasoned actions while there is time to do so in an orderly manner. 
The report deals with some general issues applicable to all defence industries and then concentrates on 4 key defence industries- shipbuilding, aerospace, electronics and munitions. The electronics section of the report is not yet quite completed and it, together with a summary of conclusions, will be tabled in the Budget session and a request will then be made to print the whole report. I am concerned at many of the deficiencies revealed. We could not, for instance, build a combat aircraft in Australia from our own resources. We could not fit out a modern warship from our own resources. Our technological gap is probably worse now than it was in 1 939. The gap is not narrowing; it is widening. 
The Committee has made many recommendations in order to widen our defence technological base. Some recommendations involve changes in policies pursued by successive governments; others suggest effective implementation of policies to which in the past mere lip service has been paid. The report is unanimous, except for the highly contentious subject of merchant shipbuilding on some aspects of which 2 members dissented. I hope that this report will be of value to Australian defence and I commend it to the House. 
I think it is worth remembering what we are actually debating. We are debating whether we should mine and export uranium and, if so, under what conditions and safeguards. We are not debating whether we should have nuclear power stations in this country. There is no such proposal. We are not debating whether we should store nuclear waste in this country. There is no such proposal. The information we have before us is the first report of the Ranger Uranium- Environmental Inquiry- the Fox report- which deals with the export of uranium and which really comes under 5 headings, namely, the dangers associated with mining and milling, the dangers associated with the operation of nuclear reactors, the dangers associated with the safe disposal of nuclear waste and the 2 key questions of terrorist activities and nuclear proliferation. The second Fox report deals not with the general problem of export but with the specific problems of the Northern Territory and has drawn attention to very serious and difficult problems concerning environmental control, respect of the rights of Aborigines and national parks. We also have before us a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the safeguards that the Australian Government proposes to apply if we decide to export uranium. 
Before I look at the disadvantages of exporting uranium I will look at some of the advantages. Firstly, although there is some difference of opinion about what the price is likely to be, at a minimum it could bring in $ 1,200m a year, which should be compared with the $800m derived at present from the wool industry and the amount of something like $2,000m derived at present from the whole mining industry. This is peculiarly important because when our Bass Strait oil runs out in the mid-1980s, if not before, we are going to face a serious balance of payments problem. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  using a rather elegant phrase, said that we could not wait to get our greasy paws on the money. If governments do not see that national resources are kept up, social services inevitably will suffer. It is the duty of a government to see to the best interests of its community. Any responsible government must do that. I think the advantages are great. 
Let us turn to the problems. The first is the problem of terrorists getting hold of nuclear ex- plosives. That is truly a danger, but I think that it as been generally exaggerated. It is much more difficult for terrorists to manufacture an effective nuclear weapon than many people imagine. Nevertheless it is a danger that we must recognise. Secondly, there is the danger of nuclear proliferation, which is very serious indeed. This problem is also sometimes misrepresented. It was misrepresented most recently by the honourable member for Blaxland, who referred to an Indian nuclear explosion. There is no denying that India exploded a nuclear device in 1 974 and that at the same time a bilateral agreement between Canada and India was in force, but that has no similarity with what is being proposed now. 
India is not and was not then a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the safeguards that applied to India at the time were rudimentary and did not exclude the so-called peaceful nuclear explosion; nor did the agreement with Canada apply International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards. In any case, the nuclear materials used were of Indian origin and not of Canadian origin, as claimed by the honourable member for Blaxland. According to the safeguards proposed by the Prime Minister, India would not be supplied with uranium by this country. Our safeguards are very tight, and far more explicit and go far beyond what is presently applied by any other country. I think that they are a notable contribution to the safeguard situation throughout the world. 
It is worth remembering that as an exporter we would have some chance of influencing the situation about nuclear safeguards. If we refuse to export we will lose that opportunity. The safeguards applied to the transfer of nuclear materials are vital to the future of this world. Further, it does not appear that by refusing to export we would have any influence on this proliferation. The Fox report was quite clear about that. By refusing to export we would have no influence. On the matter of nuclear proliferation it does not matter one way or the other whether we export. The nuclear proliferation will continue just the same. But if we become a controlled exporter we can influence significantly the nuclear safeguards throughout the world. That, to my mind, is a most important contribution that we can make to the future of the world. 
The second danger mentioned is the danger of mining and milling uranium. I do not think that this danger needs to be taken too seriously. No one has made any very substantial suggestions as to the danger of the open cut mining of uranium and the subsequent milling and export of yellowcake. It is much safer, for instance, than coal mining. There is a small problem with regard to the tailings that are left behind after milling. They are radio-active and have to be disposed of. It might be worth mentioning in passing that there was a rather quaint suggestion in the second Fox report which appeared to say that these tailings, mixed with water, should be put into an excavation and that then rocks should be put on top of them. I think we should perhaps draw the attention of the Fox committee to the findings of  Mr Archimedes  a few thousand years ago. I should have thought that the rocks would almost inevitably sink and the water borne tailings would come to the top. That may have been a factor which the Committee did not consider. 
The other factors which we have to consider in the second Fox report in respect of our mining and milling concern the environment, national parks and Aborigines. We must not under-rate rate these considerations but also we must see that they are held in balance, each given its due weight. In the planned uranium mining area in the Alligator River zone there are about 1000 Aborigines. We must, of course, see that their rights are protected. I should like to make one point about them, and I am glad to see that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is at the table. I am informed that at the moment some of these Aboriginals have very severe alcoholism problems. I mention this now before mining starts because if we do not make it clear that that is the present position we might find a few years after mining starts that mining will be accused of creating their alcoholism problems. I should like to put this fact on the record. The reason for their present state has nothing to do with mining; it is the consequence of recent unwise social policies. 
It is essential that the requirements with regard to the environment and national parks are reasonable. What is suggested in the second Fox report is the machinery, the structure, which if followed exactly would result in something like a 2 year's delay while mining companies endeavoured to make the necessary inquiries, investigations and submissions. I believe that this is not necessary. We must see that interests are protected, but that this is done in a sensible and reasonable way. In particular, we must see that State and Federal environmental laws for uranium mining and export are coincidental. We must not have a situation where a mining company has to meet 2 separate overlapping environmental requirements. Above all, we must see that the mining companies have a clear code which they can understand and follow. Government has a duty in this regard, and I am sure that this Government will accept that duty. 
The next risk is that of nuclear reactors. The present boiling water reactors are not dangerous. They are substantially safer than fossil fuel power stations. They do not blow up, as some people seem to think. Under certain circumstancesthis is very remote- they might emit some radiation. The only way in which we can really look at the risk is in statistical terms. It has been assessed by the Rasmussen Committee that people living beside a nuclear power station are 300 000 times as likely to be killed in a car accident or 8 times as likely to be killed by a thunderbolt as they are by an emission from a nuclear power station. There is a risk but it is one that must be kept in proportion. 
In any case, is this an issue on which we should make a decision? If the government of a country, knowing the risks, such as there are, of nuclear power stations, decides that it is in the economic and social interests of its people to import uranium for a nuclear power generation system, have we the right to deny that government the uranium? Surely that is a decision that should and must be made by the responsible government concerned. It is true there are dangers in respect of nuclear reactors. The fast breeder reactors certainly have unsolved environmental problems. The reprocessing and the subsequent disposal of waste also has unsolved, but not necessarily insolvable, problems. Australia has 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the easily accessible world uranium sources. If, by denying our uranium to the world, we succeed in creating an artificial shortage of uranium, we will surely accelerate the introduction of a plutonium economy- fast breeder reactors and reprocessing. The fast breeder reactor uses uranium about 30 times as efficiently as an existing reactor. Countries denied uranium will surely look for other ways to use what they have more economically. There is an old saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I fear that many people who campaign against the export of uranium will achieve exactly the opposite of what they hope to achieve. 
We have some moral decisions to make. I should like to put them to the House. The first moral question we have to ask is: Have we the right to decide for other countries whether they should use nuclear power generation, or is that a decision for the governments of the countries concerned? The second question is: Have we the right to neglect to use our power to improve nuclear safeguards? The third moral question we must answer is whether this country with 0.4 per cent of the world's population has the right to deny the rest of the world access to 25 per cent of its most important energy source. These are most important questions. I submit the answer to the three questions is an unequivocal no. A responsible government must make the decision to make our uranium available to the world. It is true that it would be in our national interest to do so. However, it would also be in the interests of the rest of the world. Therefore, I strongly recommend that we should mine and export our uranium. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
What is the actual wording of the certificate the Attorney-General customarily gives the Governor-General after a Bill has passed both Houses of Parliament. 
Why, these days, does the Attorney-General have to advise the Governor-General whether amendments are needed to a Bill passed by the Parliament. 
When did an Attorney-General last recommend amendments. 
Is the advice on whether Bills should be reserved for royal assent these days really a matter for the AttorneyGeneral. 
Why should the certificate not be abandoned as a time wasting anachronism. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerns the Australian Ambassador to Indonesia,  Mr Woolcott.  Is the Minister satisfied that  Mr Woolcott  is properly representing the interests of this country to the Indonesian Government? 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has raised a number of cogent points that need to be answered, but the first thing I should say is that I am told there will be a vote on this issue. This House is the proper place to make such a decision. A referendum is only an abdication by this House of its democratic responsibility. This House will vote tonight and will make a decision on an issue of great importance not only to this country but also to the world. I am sure that we will make the right decision. What we must consider is what we are proposing and discussing. It is only proposed that we mine, mill and export uranium. There is no suggestion that we should set up nuclear power stations in this country. There is no suggestion that we should store nuclear wastes. We are considering a narrow issue. We must consider this mater in the interests of both Australia and the rest of the world. So let us look at the matter in those lights. 
The first question is: What are the advantages for Australia? Some estimates have to be made of the likely value of uranium. It appears that in the 1980s it will be worth an export income of about $ 1,200m a year. That is much more than the present value of the wool cheque and it is two-thirds as much as the total value of our present mineral exports. Further, that uranium export income will come at a time when our oil imports are rising rapidly. Unless we have some such export there will be a very severe balance of payment problem. Economically, the export of uranium is of great importance to the future prosperity and social welfare of this country. In addition, as a minor fact, the export of uranium will create about 5,000 new jobs. I do not think anyone can despise such a creation. A minor point which has been raised- I think by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and others- is that uranium and nuclear power are not of great importance to Third World countries. Superficially, that is true. 
It is unlikely that many of the undeveloped countries will use nuclear power generation. But the world energy resources must be looked at as a whole. If the Western world shifts emphasis to nuclear power that will release other fossil fuel sources- oil and coal- for use by the undeveloped world. Let me take a simple example. If Japan forgoes its present nuclear power generation program the immediate effect will be a rapid rise in the price of coal. A rapid rise in the price of coal will be of great disadvantage to the undeveloped world. So by exporting uranium, indirectly we can help the undeveloped world. We must admit that cannot be done directly. 
But there are some problems associated with nuclear power generation as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and others have mentioned. The first matter, mentioned with great force but not, I think, with great accuracy by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  is the question of nuclear proliferation. It is a fact that the present Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is seriously defective. Three of the nuclear powers- China, France and India- are not members. The Fox report suggests and common sense also dictates, that our export of uranium will have no effect on nuclear proliferation. The cost of nuclear weapons and their delivery systems is so great that the cost of the associated uranium is trivial. If all else failed it would be economical to get some sea water to produce nuclear weapons. Australia, by its export or failure to export uranium, can have no effect on the problem of nuclear proliferation except that by exporting we do have some leverage to tighten up these admittedly defective standards. If we refuse to export, we have none. After all, America and Russia between them have nuclear weapons capable of destroying the world several times over. They have manufactured these weapons without any Australian uranium. 
Surely now is the time to use uranium for peaceful purposes, for the benefit of the world. Terrorists are also a problem. By the way, it is most unlikely that terrorists will be capable of raiding a nuclear power station, carrying away spent fuel rods which weigh about 20 tons, setting up their own processing plant at a cost of about $3 billion and making themselves a nuclear weapon. That is not a thing which terrorists do in a backyard. It is true that if we go into a plutonium economy then terrorists might have a chance. The main aim of our policy in the interests of the whole world should be to try to delay the onset of a plutonium economy. What the Australian Labor Party proposes would accelerate the introduction of the plutonium economy which surely it is the aim of all of us to avoid. 
The second risk associated with uranium mining is the risk of mining itself. We have considerable experience of this. In the past we have mined some 4 million tonnes of uranium ore. In that time the number of casualties and injuries as a result of radiation has been nil. The mining of uranium is very much safer than, for instance, the underground mining of coal. We need not concern ourselves that the actual mining or milling of uranium comprises any significant hazard to those involved in it. If the tailings are suitably dealt with there is no risk to the community. Dealing with tailings is not any great problem. Again, there are problems concerned with nuclear power stations. I think this matter must be put in perspective. Radiation is going on all the time. We are now receiving background radiation from the world around us. 
If we plot on a scale what we receive from background radiation and what we receive from other sources we can see the position. If we give the normal background radiation, which all of us receive and which men have received since the beginning of time, a scale of 1,000 then what the average person receives from medical and dental x-rays amounts to 700. What the average person receives from all past nuclear explosions amounts to 40. What the average person receives from all existing nuclear power stations amounts to less than 0.06. As the honourable member for Hotham says, one can say that 0.06 from all existing nuclear power stations when compared with 1,000 from normal background radiation is virtually nothing. Any sensible evaluation will suggest that by any standards it is a negligible risk. There is also a minor problem locally from the nuclear power stations. These stations have been exhaustively examined and suffice it to say that a person living alongside a nuclear power station- which, by the way, is a local risk and there is no intention of setting them up herewould be 200 times as likely to be killed by a thunderbolt as he would by any radiation from that station. That is a risk which I think has to be kept in modest perspective. 
Then there is the question of waste disposal. This is a subject which has been grossly misrepresented. As of now waste disposal is not a significant problem. All the waste from all American nuclear power stations could be stored in this chamber. Systems are being developed and have been successful in a pilot scheme to vitrify such products and bury them. I think that will be the future route which will be taken. One thing we must bear in mind is that if we become an exporter of uranium we will have the power, in association with other exporters, to impose on the users of uranium proper standards for the disposal of their waste so that in the disposal of that waste they do not affect others. I submit that the decision whether to use nuclear power is a local decision, to be made by the local community based on its assessment of the risk and the advantages to that community. That is true for that community if it does not affect the rest of the world. I believe we can impose those standards by becoming a uranium exporter. We have no moral, economic or social right to try to impose on other countries the system of power generation they should use, provided they do not affect other countries by their use of that power. 
The final risk is that of the fast breeder reactor. There is no doubt that at the moment the fast breeder reactor poses substantial environmental problems. It uses uranium about 50 times as efficiently as the existing boiling water and pressurised water reactors. Surely our aim must be to prevent, until safeguards are enforced, the introduction of a fast breeder reactor which uses plutonium. The main thrust of  President  Carter's policy is to stop the reprocessing of spent nuclear cores from existing reactors and the introduction of fast breeder reactors because they involve the use of plutonium. For his policy to work- 1 believe it is the proper policy- it would depend upon the free availability of uranium so the present reactors which are in use in more than 40 countries can continue economically. If we succeed in creating an artificial shortage of uranium all we will be doing is impelling the world into reprocessing and into fast breeder reactor generation. Surely this is something which a country must resist at all costs. We must consider that we are responsible for the consequences of our action. 
I believe that there are enormous economic benefits to Australia in the exporting of uranium, but there are three moral questions that we must answer. I believe that some of us have been asking the wrong moral questions. The three moral questions that we must ask are these: Firstly, have we the right to impose on other countries or attempt to impose on other countries the system of power generation which they should use, provided that the use of the power-generating material does not affect other countries? Secondly, have we the right, like Pontius Pilate, to wash our hands of the whole affair and neglect our opportunities to impose on the rest of the world, through our agreements with other exporters, proper standards of waste disposal and safeguards? Thirdly, do we, as a country with 0.04 per cent of the world's population, have the right to deny to the rest of the world 25 per cent of a most important energy source? 
Without doubt the most revealing speech during this debate has not been that of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  revealing though it was. It was that of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I do not mean the tired cliches and the empty rhetoric. They are not new. The Leader of the Opposition always talks that way on economic matters. He is a literate man but even his greatest admirer could not describe him as being economically numerate. What any leader of the Opposition surely should do in conditions such as these is make clear what his alternative government would do to meet the economic situation. As it is we seem to have three different Opposition policies, none of which makes much sense. One newspaper critic described the three Labor spokesmen on the economy not so much as three wise men but as Donald Duck's three nephews, Huey, Louey and Dewey. That was unkind but perceptive. 
What was so revealing about the Leader of the Opposition's speech is that it explodes the idea propagated after the last Labor Party Conference that there is now a new Whitlam who has learnt from his past mistakes and grasped some of the principles of economics. No one who listened to his speech on the Budget in this House could believe such a claim for a moment. The Leader of the Opposition still seems to believe that nothing that went wrong with the economy under the Labor Government had anything to do with him. He must be the only person in Australia who still believes that. All he really has to offer is more of the same old bungling. He would do it all again. The new Whitlam is the most unconvincing public relations creation since the new Nixon. 
There were two key gaps in what the Leader of the Opposition said. What he does not say is usually more important than what he does say. Firstly, he did not admit the obvious fact that what he is proposing will involve an inevitable increase in taxation. He got us into our present economic state by rapidly increasing government expenditure without being prepared to increase taxation to pay for it. If he is serious about what he said about government expenditure during the debate- I think he is in his rather woolly way- a sharp increase in taxation under a Labor government is unavoidable. The second omission by the Leader of the Opposition was caused by his failure to grasp that the increases he proposes in government expenditure would delay a reduction in interest rates. A reduction in interest rates and a corresponding expansion in credit is crucial to our economic recovery. It affects consumer spending, investment and public confidence. It would be most unhelpful to the community to do as the Leader of the Opposition suggests and to increase public spending so as to employ a handful of people if, at the same time, it delays a reduction in interest rates which would result in the employment of many more. 
It is true that the Leader of the Opposition has never pretended to understand interest rates. He admitted to this House that there were gaps in his knowledge about interest rates. It would obviously have been more correct to say that there were gaps in his ignorance. Even these were hard to find. One of the great weaknesses of the Leader of the Opposition is that he has never been able to view the economy as a whole with activities in one part of it affecting other parts. His other great weakness is that he is never able to be selective about government expenditure. He is in favour of it, whatever it is and regardless of its merits, or so it would seem from his speech on the Budget. What government is all about is being selective about expenditure and trying to balance short term needs and long term goals. 
The Leader of the Opposition's predecessor, Arthur Calwell, once said: 'Give us three years and we will so scramble the eggs that they will never be unscrambled'. I am glad he was not right. There is no doubt that the unscrambling of what the Whitlam Government did is taking longer than we had hoped or that the community had wished. But I am sure that the electorate would never give the present Opposition another chance to scramble the economy still further. 
The Budget we are considering is another step along the road to recovery. It is false as some have claimed to say that the Budget does not tackle inflation and unemployment. There is the closest connection between the rate of growth of the money supply and the rate of inflation and between the rate of inflation and the level of unemployment. By holding down the rate of increase in the money supply- this is the main thrust of the Budget- we will bring down the rate of inflation. When inflation is down, employment, by the use of Keynesian methods, will improve and not before. Perhaps we are restricting the money supply a little too much. That is a point to which I will return. But the main thrust of the Budget is right. 
Several factors follow from this. Firstly, we must avoid superficially attractive employment creating schemes such as those proposed by the Opposition which by increasing the money supply will do more harm than good. Except in the very short term they will create more unemployment than employment. Secondly, we must avoid any further significant devaluation which inevitably increases inflation and the pressure on wages. Our overseas credit is good. Paradoxically, if we make it clear that we are prepared to borrow as much as is necessary to defend the dollar, we will probably not have to borrow at all. Thirdly, we must avoid too protectionist a stance. Protection as a means of creating jobs is open to the same criticisms as the Opposition's job creating government expenditure. 
The difficulty with using a monetarist policy to control inflation- no one has suggested a better method- is that benefits become apparent only in the long run. This timing is unsuited to a threeyear democratic electoral cycle. We must hope that the electorate is perceptive enough to remember the mess we got into and to realise that we are being slowly but surely dragged out of it. There is one area of economic policy which is not under direct government control. That is the level of wages. There is no doubt that wage rates and crippling penalty rates are pricing us out of many markets. As I have said, there is little that the Federal Government can do directly to reduce the cost of labour. But there is one course of action I will mention. Payroll tax was given to the States some years ago so that they would have a growth tax. It is now levied at the rate of 5 per cent. Last year it raised more than $ 1,300m. The States will soon have access, if they wish, to a larger growth tax- income tax. Payroll tax is not now so necessary to them. Its removal would bring down the price of labour and improve employment. I suggest that the Government negotiate with the States to remove payroll tax as a first step from the lower wage levels and compensate the States this year for their lost revenue. This would be a far more desirable method of stimulating employment than the make-work schemes of the Opposition. It would have the effect of raising the target for growth in the money supply to a little over the present 8 per cent to 10 per cent. 
The great problem in framing this Budget must have been to hold down the growth in the money supply. We have to balance the immediate needs of the economy against the human needs of disadvantaged people and the long term growth needs of the economy. On the last point it is tragic to see the Opposition acting in such an irresponsible fashion on the long term growth implicit in the uranium decision. Virtually every member of the Opposition front bench knows in his heart that the uranium decision is morally and economically right and that a Labor government would have wanted to take the same action but he dares not say so for fear of losing a few votes or, more likely, for fear of the outside forces that control him. Labor's behaviour is contemptible. 
All the rumours of dramatic cuts in community services which were sedulously disseminated by the Opposition during the winter have been proved to be false rumours, but this does not undo the worry and distress that was caused to many people. The Opposition knew that these dishonest rumours could not be contradicted until the Budget was issued, but that did not dissuade them from issuing them. Not only has our expenditure been maintained in real terms in all the important areas- in line with our philosophy that assistance must be given where it is needed rather than scattered everywhere as the Labor Party does- but in key areas it has been increased, particularly in the field of youth employment and training, which I welcome. 
There has been some criticism that education expenditure has been merely maintained in real terms rather than increased. I think that what the community is looking for now is not more spending on education but rather more effective use of the money we are already spending. I was at a fascinating meeting a few weeks ago with all the militant teachers unions in Melbourne. They pointed out, quite accurately in my view, that Melbourne Church of England Grammar School provides a better education than a typical state h igh school. But very sadly their aim seems to be not to raise the high school to Melbourne Grammar standard but to pull Melbourne Grammar down. Surely our aim should be to level up, not to level down. The teachers did not seem to have thought through what needs to be done. Their only solution was to spend more money. They did not seem to have thoughts about why parents spend their money to send their children to schools such as Melbourne Grammar. Of course, some of it is snobbery- old school tie, and so on- but most people are prepared to make sacrifices to send their children to such schools because they think they will get a better education. 
Why? It certainly is not because of the buildings. The most impressive school buildings I have seen recently are those at the new state secondary schools such as Prince's Hill secondary school in Melbourne. In fact one of the worst classrooms I have ever seen was at the English public school, Winchester, which is academically one of the finest schools in the world but its classrooms would undoubtedly be condemned by the Victorian Secondary Teachers Association. Nor is it because of the size of the classes. In Victoria the pupil-teacher ratio at secondary schools is not 15 to 1 and there is no evidence that when class sizes fall below about 25 the smaller classes produce better education. If it is not school buildings or the size of classes, what is it that induces parents to spend their money to send their children to private schools? I am sure that they do it because they want discipline among the school children and discipline and dedication from the teachers. All these could easily be provided by the teachers in the state system is they so wished. I mention these things because the path to improved education, which is of great importance to the whole community, lies primarily not in the spending of money but in the motivation and dedication of the teachers. I wish I thought the militant teachers realised this. 
Now we come to the question of tax reform. There is no doubt that the overwhelming proportion of the community have felt that the income tax scales need reforming. The Asprey Committee felt that there should be some shift away from personal income tax into the area of indirect taxation, but in the present economic situation this is not a possibility. But it is good to see that the Government has taken steps both to simplify the tax system and to lower the tax rate. Tax reform, however, is more than just changes in the tax rates. Nobody likes paying taxes but most people are prepared to pay them if they think they are paying a fair share and that others are not getting away with it. We must avoid getting into the situation that France has reached where tax evasion and avoidance are so widespread that it is said that the French can neither impose nor pay a fair tax. There has been a rather distressing decline in our tax morality in recent years caused, I believe, by the high level of inflation. Tax evasion is common. I heard the other day of a bricklayer who works only at weekends for which he earns $250 in cash, on which he pays no tax. He fishes and plays golf during the week when the golf courses are clear and, to add insult to injury, he draws unemployment benefit. This may be an extreme case, but tax evasion is widespread although perhaps not usually on such a blatant scale. 
How many members in this House have paid someone a fee in cash knowing that he has no intention of declaring it as income? These are tax evaders. How many people receive expense accounts which they do not fully utilise and evade tax on the unused portion? I am sure that I do not need to draw the attention of the members of this House to the fact that those in safe electorates who do not spend all their electorate allowance should declare and pay tax on any unspent balance. What is disturbing is the extent to which tax evasion has become a way of life for a significant proportion of Australian people. But that is not the most worrying area. Tax avoidance is even more widespread and much more blatant. I am delighted to see that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is taking up the question of trusts being used as a method of tax avoidance.  His  proposed amendment to section 98 of the Income Tax Assessment Act will, I believe, make trusts inappropriate for small businessmen and self employed professionals where the beneficiaries are children under 16 years of age. But, to use the Treasurer's favourite expression this is only the tip of the iceberg and I shall be looking forward with interest to the measures he proposes to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act to deal with the wider question of trusts as a means of tax avoidance for higher income earners. 
Then there are other methods of tax avoidance, of which the most blatant is income in kind. One very rarely sees a senior position advertised these days without reference to something like a fully maintained company car being provided, without any pretence that it is needed for business, That is a $2,000 a year benefit, tax free, to the recipient. What we must always remember is that when some people manage to avoid paying tax others have to pay more. Surely what we should be aiming at is a tax that is equitable. We must therefore tax all these forms of income in kind, whether they be free cars-the most blatant example-or other benefits such as scholarships for school children, free television, free telephones, free housing, overseas travel, reduced interest loans, and so on. I should like to make it clear that I am not talking about benefits which are necessary in the performance of the job. I am talking about extra benefits which are deliber- ately given as a means of tax avoidance. The Asprey Committee pointed out that the law at present does not cover benefits given to an employee's family and that clearly these benefits should be taxable. It also pointed out that the meaning of the expression 'value to the taxpayer' of other fringe benefits in section 26 of the Act is unsettled. Asprey recommended that it should mean what it would cost the employee to provide the benefit for himself, less that element which is a necessary consequence of his employment. I hope that the Treasurer will proceed on these lines when he amends the Act. 
But there is a further point. It is no use tackling these tax avoidance schemes unless we tackle the situation which has caused them. All honourable members will remember the calamitous situation caused by the previous Labor Government in trying to bring cars into the tax scheme. It failed because it was clumsy and did not tackle the cause. What we must do is offer a trade-off to bring income in kind into the tax scheme at the same time as we lower the tax rates. I do not think that the present lowering of 60 per cent maximum goes far enough. I think that the appropriate level is 50 per cent purely on the basis that it seems to me that one dollar for oneself and one dollar for the community is a fair thing and what we should be aiming at throughout our tax structure is something that can be genuinely accepted as a fair thing. But it will only be regarded as a fair thing if we bring all income in cash and in kind into the tax system. 
There are two further disadvantages of too high a marginal rate of taxation. The first is that it lures a substantial proportion of our cleverest people into the field of finding loopholes for high income earners to avoid tax This is an awful waste of their scarce talents, in community terms. The second disadvantage is that it tends to deprive us of the economic advantages of the specialisation of labour. A high income earner who wishes to have his house painted, for instance, has to earn before tax three times the price of the painter. The result is that instead of going out and doing something he is good at to earn the money to pay the painter he does the painting himself, which is bad for the painter, bad for the economy and probably bad for the house. These new tax scales are a big step forward, but there are more steps to be taken, particularly amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act. I await with interest the Treasurer's foreshadowed amendments. I wholeheartedly support the Budget. It gives some much needed tax relief, it maintains expenditure in areas of need and it continues to pressure towards lower inflation which is the only route by which we can return to full employment. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, on notice, on 24 August 1 977: 
1) Is it a fact that the move of the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science from Melbourne to Hobart would involve substantial and continuing logistic penalties, both in time and cost. 
Can the Minister say whether the proposed move is very unpopular with the persons concerned. 
Will it make recruitment of expeditioners more difficult. 
Is there a substantial surplus of office space in Melbourne where the Division is now located. 
Would a move to Hobart involve the construction of new premises. 
Is such expenditure justified at a time when the Government is endeavouring to rein in its expenditure. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Now that Australia has become a major uranium exporter will the Prime Minister use the international leverage we thereby acquire to get together with other uranium exporters to present a united front on the general tightening of safe- i guards, particularly with regard to weapons pro.liferation and extending to responsible disposal of waste? Will the Prime Minister negotiate with other uranium exporters to ensure that customers who breach safeguard agreements with exporters are denied further supplies of uranium? 
asked the Minister for Post aand Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
Did the television program  This Day Tonight  on Friday, 19 August 1977, show a program on drug addiction. 
If so, in the course of an interview with Peter Couchman, did a drug addict claim that a cough mixture gave him as big a 'high' as he obtained from heroin, and the cough mixture was cheaper and easier to get. 
Was the bottle of cough mixture displayed so that its brand name could be identified by viewers. 
Will publicity such as this cause a very undesirable demand for this cough mixture from youthful experimenters. 
Will he suggest to the Australian Broadcasting Commission that  This Day Tonight  refrain from this type of publicity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
What was the (a) make, (b) country of design, and (c) country of manufacture of each car supplied to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Mission in the 6 months ended 30 June 1977. 
In cases where the cars were not of Australian design and manufacture, what were the reasons for the non-supply of an Australian car. 
-Everyone, or almost everyone, agrees that this Parliament does not work very effectively but no one does anything about it. It is not a matter of members working hard. The honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles)  produced some very detailed figures showing how hard members of Parliament have to work. The fact is that we are not working very effectively. Some time ago a report on the new parliamentary committee system was brought into this House. It was a detailed study of the way in which committees might help to make this Parliament work more effectively. It was a unanimous report but nothing has happened. I am sure we are all aware that there are many matters which are not effectively covered by debate in this House. Too often they take the form of statement followed by flat contradiction and ending in personal abuse. There are many matters which, if they are to be considered effectively, must be considered by a committee from both sides of the House sitting around the table discussing matters, examining papers and taking evidence. It is surprising how often a proper and agreed decision will arise out of procedures such as that. 
Why has nothing happened? It is not a matter of money, although I suppose a larger vote would be needed for committees if we wanted to make them effective by providing appropriate staff and research assistants. But it is not really a matter of money because the amount involved would be trivial in a Budget appropriating more than $8,000m for Commonwealth purposes. The fact is that governments do not want this House to be more efficient. Lord Acton once said that power tends to corrupt. I do not know whether he was right but one thing I am sure of is that power tends to make people resist scrutiny of their actions. That is an inevitable consequence for a government of whatever political complexion. Governments do not want the scrutiny of this House when they can avoid it. This matter is so important that I think this legislature has to seek ways in which in this area it can impose its wishes on the Executive. It is a matter which this House has to take seriously. 
The report on the new parliamentary committee system, which is a radical restructuring of the present one, was tabled in this House in May 1976. At that time the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 
 I give the House an assurance that there will be an opportunity to debate the statement which has been made ... at a later stage, probably in the Budget session. 
The Minister was referring to the Budget session of 1976. This is the Budget session of 1977, and that debate still has not been held. I ask the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is at the table to indicate to the Committee in his winding up remarks when it is planned to hold that important debate. 
I do not want to canvass the conclusions of the Select Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System although I agree with its conclusions. The point I draw to the attention of this Committee is that we have done nothing about that report. We have established the Standing Committee on Expenditure, a committee which was examined by the Select Committee and specifically rejected by it. So we have done nothing to implement the Select Committee's recommendations. 
This debate is a good example of what is wrong with our procedures. We are examining detailed estimates but I am not planning to speak on them and I do not think any other honourable member has or will speak on them. The point is that this is not the appropriate venue or the appropriate method by which to discuss such things. To discuss the Estimates we need witnesses and documents and to be able to crossexamine witnesses. Here honourable members, perhaps helpfully, make speeches on general topics but they do not examine the Estimates. That role is being performed by the Senate, and being performed effectively. I do not resent that. I am not in favour of duplication by the two Houses but I think it is odd that this House should have abdicated so abjectly its responsibility for financial management. If we accept, as we appear to have, that this role is being performed by the Senate I have one suggestion to make: Ministers should appear before the Senate Estimates committees to give evidence of behalf of their departments. At the moment Senate Ministers who in the Senate are responsible for five or six departments appear before the Estimates committees and are of very little help to those committees. There is nothing in the Standing Orders to prevent a Minister appearing before Senate Estimates committees and I urge the Minister for Productivity to suggest to his colleagues that they do so and, incidentally, to set an example, by doing so himself. 
Like other honourable members I welcome the presence of  Mr Speaker  in the chamber for this debate. I take the opportunity, when he cannot rule me out of order, to put a suggestion to him. Question time in this House is ineffective. Its ineffectiveness is a great reflection on our real willingness as a legislature to examine the Government. The Minister's technique, of course, is well known. If a Minister does not like the look of a question he is asked, he answers a different question, and there is nothing much which can be done about it, under our procedures. In the House of Commons the procedure is different. If a question is asked and is not fully elucidated, and it rarely is, supplementary questions are allowed until, in the opinion of the  Speaker,  the subject is exhausted. That, of course, gives great discretionary power to the  Speaker  and requires a  Speaker  who has the confidence of both sides of the House to implement effectively. I believe that our present  Speaker  has that confidence, and he should be allowed to exercise the power given by Standing Order 151 which states in relation to questions without notice: 
At the discretion of the  Speaker  supplementary questions may be asked to elucidate an answer. 
I take this opportunity to suggest indirectly to  Mr Speaker  that he consider discussing with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  whether he should not exercise that power freely, suitable arrangements being made to control the number of questions asked and the method of asking them. If that power were used, it would do a great deal to improve the quality of question time in this House and the efficient scrutiny by this House of the Executive. 
I should like to focus attention on an area which we do not often notice very much except in dramatic cases, that is, what the Federal Government is doing about the arts. I do this with  some  trepidation because I fear that if I draw attention to what is being done some honourable members opposite will start to oppose it. But I think it is important that we know what is being done and the value of it. If we look at the Estimates we see that we are spending $4.2m on acquisitions for the National Gallery. I should like to make it quite clear that this does not cover the capital cost of the Gallery but only acquisitions for the collection. 
There is an allocation of $23. 7m to the Australia Council, which is primarily concerned with the performing arts; $3.4m to the Australian Film and Television School; and $9.7m to the Australian Film Commission. I think these allocations are admirable. What is good about them is that they represent in the performing arts in !&gt;articular about a 10 per cent increase on the allocations in the previous financial year. In the arts this is most important because of all forms of employment the performing arts are the most labour intensive. If government grants do not move roughly in line with the movement in average weekly earnings what we are achieving in the arts will inevitably lag. 
In addition to this, in the past year we have achieved important reforms. The restructuring of the Australia Council to make it more efficient and more economical and the establishment of the Community Arts School to involve the community in what is going on in the arts have both been important advances. In a different field, the report by the Myer Foundation on how private enterprise might support the arts is of real importance. It is a great mistake for the arts to be too dependent on single patrons such as the Government. The more they can spread their patrons the better the art form will be and the Myer Foundation's report is an important step forward in that area. 
I have a couple of suggestions to make and I am delighted to see that the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts  (Mr Staley)  is present in the chamber to receive those suggestions. The first is about the Australian National Gallery. The proposed purchase of the painting  Grand Nu  for something like $lm has been a subject of great criticism in recent months. I can understand why the Government felt obliged to reject its purchase at a time when throughout Government enterprises and activities the Government was imposing restraint. It would have been grossly misrepresented had a government instrumentality, the National Gallery, at that time spent $lm on a single painting. Nevertheless, it is a decision greatly to be regretted. Members of Parliament are not good art critics, nor are they now or will they be good assessors of the value of works of art. I can remember being at a parliamentary luncheon on one occasion surrounded by a group of honourable members who might have what could be described as rural interests. I am sure that honourable members are aware that people with rural interests have three topics of conversation- wheat, sheep and cattle, and on this occasion the topic was cattle. They were discussing the relative merits of various breeds of cattle such as Murray Greys, Poll Herefords and Charolais. It was shortly after the previous Government had spent $2m on a Jackson Pollock painting. Trying to raise the level of conversation I said to one of them: 'What do you think of the selection of Blue Poles?' He said: 'Blue polls? I have heard of red polls but what are blue polls?' I do not carry it further than that except to say that I doubt whether members of Parliament are great art critics. I would not accept their judgment on the merits of particular paintings but I do accept their judgment on the political consequences of government decisions to buy works of art at certain times. 
Surely what we must do is insulate the art purchases from political consequences. There were reasons for the rejection by the Government of the purchase  of Grand Nu.  The economic consequences and the public were important considerations. Another reason for the rejection which has not been adequately canvassed was the secret commission involved. It has been denied but I have been credibly informed that the agent was not to receive a cash commission but instead 12 Picasso paintings which he could sell in Australia and keep the commission. This was a substantial inducement for a local agent to become involved but it was a deal in which the Government could not be involved. It is important to understand that in art circles they talk about the reasons for the Government's rejection of  Grand Nu.  However, that was an important factor in the Government's decision. In the long term what we must do is take these art decisions out of this forum. Ours is an inappropriate body to decide them. We must establish a system which will ensure that the management of the National Gallery is accepted by this House as efficient. We have appointed a secretary/manager and I am sure that he will achieve that acceptance. We must accept that the artistic judgment of the newly appointed director is of a very high standard. 
We must have the policy of the National Gallery approved by the Government. At the moment this policy is being redrafted and has not yet been approved by the Government but when it is approved I think it is important that decisions on the selections which the National Gallery makes for purchase out of its allocation be taken out of the political forum. They are decisions which should be made by the National Gallery without political control or direction. 
A second field which I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts is films. We have had a sensational advance in the last few years and Australian films of great quality are now being produced. A great deal of credit for this lies with the Australian Film Commission and to a much lesser extent the State film commissions. This process has been successful in other countries. What we need to do is to extend this process to theatrical productions. The process has been successful in the United Kingdom. It is based on a revolving fund out of which productions can be financed and, if they are successful and make profits, into which a proportion of the profits can be paid, thereby achieving the revolving nature of the fund. We need such a revolving fund for theatrical productions open both to subsidised companies and to commercial companies provided that the commercial companies meet certain standards of artistic quality and requirements in relation to the areas in which they put on their productions. Both commercial and subsidised companies should have access to this fund. An appropriate level of funding initially would be $500,000, 1 suggest, with the arrangement that a board allocates funds for particular productions. If a production makes a profit then perhaps 50 per cent of the profit can be paid back into the revolving fund. 
Obviously it is of great importance that the board deciding these allocations be comprised of people of appropriate quality. What we must not have on the board are people who are potential recipients. The greatest weakness in our arts fund distribution procedure in the past has been that recipients have sat in judgment on what funds should go to themselves and to other bodies. I ignore their practice of withdrawing when their organisations are being considered for an allocation of funds. Their technique is to withdraw then and come back later and knock back all other alternatives. This ensures that they will receive funds. It is a fairly blatant practice. What we must have is a body free of recipients and comprising businessmen and people experienced in theatrical entrepreneuring to manage a fund from which they can promote theatrical productions. In this way Australia can in the next few years achieve as marked an advance in the theatre as it has in films in the last three or four years. We must not underestimate what we have achieved. We are now becoming a significant force in world cultural affairs in that field and we can achieve that recognition in other fields. I put those suggestions to the Minister. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In view of the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  I want to make it quite clear that my suggestion was that the National Gallery should be divorced from political control provided that the financial management of the Gallery is adequate- and I believe it is now- and provided that the policy of the Gallery has been approved in advance by the Government. The Government is paying $4.2m this year for the Gallery. It has the right to decide the policy, but the expenditure inside that policy is a matter for the Gallery and, in my view, should be a matter for the Gallery alone. 
I would like to comment very briefly, as I see that the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts  (Mr Staley)  is getting a bit toey, on a quite different matter-the vote for the Department of Administrative Services. I refer to the subject of cars for heads of mission. I am not talking of people buying cars inside Australia and the 'Buy Australia' policy. That is decided by the tariffs to give preference to Australian cars and, inside that, people should choose the cars that most suit their needs. In that way they can exercise an influence on our manufacturers to produce cars that meet their needs. But our ambassadors and heads of mission are quite a different case. They are the representatives of this country and they are provided with cars at public expense. Whenever possible their cars should be Australian cars. There are perfectly adequate Australian cars available. The Statesman Caprice- a right-hand drive car, admittedlyis entirely suitable for any proper ambassadorial purposes. 
The most ludicrous case I came across was in Dublin, in Ireland, where the American Ambassador drives an Australian-built Statesman and the Australian Ambassador drives a Germanbuilt Mercedes. What country does the Australian Ambassador think he is representing? We have unfortunately in some of our ambassadors, in addition to a cultural cringe, a weird sort of mechanical cringe. My representations in the past on this matter have to some extent been successful. I am delighted to say that, unlike last year when a high proportion of the cars provided in circumstances where they could have been Australian built were in fact foreign, this year all the cars provided to right-hand drive countries, with one exception, have been Australian built. The one very odd exception is Fiji. In Fiji the representative of the United States of America drives a Kingswood station wagon; the representative of France drives a Holden; the representative of New Zealand has two cars- a Belmont sedan and a Belmont station wagon; the representative of the South Pacific Bureau of Economic Co-operation has a Statesman; the representative of the World Health Organisation has a Kingswood station wagon; and the Australian High Commissioner is being provided with a Toyota. That is very odd indeed. 
I must admit that there are slightly extraordinary circumstances in Fiji. The Government of Fiji has imposed a 2500cc limit on cars operating in Fiji but it has given a special exemption to diplomats. All other diplomatic missions take advantage of that and on the whole use Australian cars. The Australian mission does not, and uses a Japanese car. Last year I gave a warning that if any non-Australian cars were provided to a head of mission in circumstances where an 
Australian car could reasonably be provided I would move a motion for a reduction of the estimates by the value of the foreign car provided. Because of the special circumstances of Fiji this case is not sufficiently clear cut, so with great reluctance I do not move such a motion. But I hope that the Minister at the table, the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, will make clear to the Minister for Administrative Services that for this year and this year alone I let him off with a strong caution on the understanding that he does not do it again. 
I find the speech by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  almost undiscussible because it is quite obvious that he has not the faintest idea what intelligence is all about. He has his own definition of 'intelligence' which has the merit of originality but no other merit because his definition is completely divorced from reality. What he has done is to confuse intelligence with the policy which should stem from that intelligence. In so doing, in the confusion of mind which that reveals, he is indicating very clearly to us why the Whitlam Ministry of which he was a member was such an administrative shambles. I can calm him a little on one point he raised.  His  suggestion of additional people being appointed to the National Assessments Board is covered by clause 6 ( 1 ) of the Bill. The Minister can appoint additional members if he so wishes. 
I turn now to more serious matters. I welcome this Bill to establish an Office of National Assessments. It is a step forward in our intelligence arrangements.  Mr Justice  Hope, in the brief extracts which we have seen from his no doubt voluminous report, correctly divided the intelligence cycle into four sections- direction, collection, processing and dissemination- and I hope that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has noted that definition of intelligence '. In my view, probably the only area in which our existing arrangements have been working reasonably well has been in dissemination. This Bill tackles part of the problem of processing. In a speech last May the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced arrangements to improve our organisation in terms of the direction of intelligence by setting up a committee of seven Cabinet Ministers assisted by seven permanent heads of departments. That is a way of improving our direction, but I must say frankly that I find it fairly cumbersome. It could be effective if they are prepared to meet often enough to achieve some expertise, but if they meet infrequently they will not improve the direction of our intelligence services. 
In the field of processing, which is what this Bill is all about, there is no doubt that reform was needed because our national assessments were particularly weak in the economic field.  Mr Justice  Hope undoubtedly was correct when he criticised our past assessment arrangements as being too much under the influence of the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs. I assume that the Joint Intelligence Organisation will continue to be responsible for scientific intelligence and geographic intelligence- geographic, in its widest sense- as well as its purely military functions. 
This is not quite in accordance with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. He recommended that most of the Joint Intelligence Organisation be transferred to this new Office of National Assessments. In his speech last May the Prime Minister said: 
Consequently, the Joint Intelligence Organisation will continue under its present title and with its existing functions, except those in the area of national assessments and current intelligence which will be transferred to the new Office. 
I do not disagree with that, but I draw attention to this as an area where the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope have not been followed. Although I approve of the establishment of the Office of National Assessments, I have some concern about its membership. I have a great admiration for our officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, most of whom are people of considerable ability. However, skill m intelligence processing is not conspicuous amongst their abilities. Processing- the third link in the chain of direction, collection, processing and disseminationrequires a special type of brain because it is properly defined as the process by which information becomes intelligence through evaluation, analysis, integration and interpretation. As  Mr Justice  Hope put it, 'assessment calls for a quality of refined judgment on a mass of material about international matters very little of which is clear fact'. 
I have not been able to put my finger on why officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs generally are not very good at this. It must stem from their training and departmental approach. I think it comes partly from their habit of trying to back every horse in the race so that no matter what happens they can say they predicted it. Anyone who has had the task of reading the voluminous and extraordinarily verbose reports which come from our overseas embassies will know exactly what I mean. Winston Churchill once said that the only way to read a Foreign Office document was to omit every second paragraph because those paragraphs always started with 'On the other hand'. I do not know whether that is fair, but our Department of Foreign Affairs certainly is modelled very closely on the British Foreign Office. Anyone who doubts the limitations of the intelligence processing ability of the British Foreign Office should study the history of its intelligence assessments over the interwar and Second World War years. The records are becoming available now. Over those years its track record was markedly worse than that of the armed Services on political and strategic matters. 
I should like to make it quite clear that I am not criticising the incumbents of the positions of 
Director-General of the Office of National Assessments and Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation, both of whom are former Foreign Affairs officers. They are distinguished officers and appear to be exceptions to the general rule that Foreign Affairs officers do not make good intelligence officers. However, the rule remains true. What concerns me is that, under the Bill before us, of the five people who will comprise the National Assessments Board three will be from the Department of Foreign Affairs. I have been assured by the Prime Minister that the posts of Director-General of the Office of National Assessments and Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation will be filled by the best qualified persons available and that those posts will in no way be a preserve of the Department of Foreign Aif airs. This is in accordance with the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Hope who said in his report: 
No department should have a right to appoint its nominee as Director-General. 
It is important to draw that to the attention of this House, because when the old Joint Intelligence Committee was formed the Department of Foreign Affairs agreed to co-operate only on the basis that it provided the  chairman  of the Committee and, most regrettably, it was allowed to get away with it. The chairmen it provided were sometimes good and sometimes not so good, but seldom did they have any intelligence experience. The post became merely one of the routine, rotating Foreign Affairs jobs. 
Our intelligence suffered seriously as a result. If the key jobs in the intelligence community are open to all departments, of course Department of Foreign Affairs officers will sometimes be the most suitable, but for the reasons I have advanced I believe this will be the exception rather than the rule. 
In relation to the appointment of a distinguished individual as Director-General of the Office of National Assessments the Government and the Prime Minister, must beware of using him as an instant adviser on every intelligence matter. The Director-General is only as well informed as the staff which supports him. He is no instant genius in intelligence matters. Using him for snap judgments on intelligence matters would be a very dangerous misuse of his position. When we look at intelligence I think we have to accept the explanation given by Professor Trevor Roper, who stated: 
Intelligence, in fact, is indivisible. The greater part of it must always be acquired by open or official methods. Only a relatively small area requires secret penetration, or espionage. Nevertheless that small area may be vital ... it must always be continuous with 'open ' intelligence. 
This, of course, is the area in which the Department of Foreign Affairs has an important input role, not an assessing role. It should also play a key role in the direction of intelligence, and a significant role through its post reports in intelligence collection. Although it is true that these post reports are probably less important in the secret area than other methods of intelligence such as electronic intercepts, code breaking, clandestine agents and satellite observations, nevertheless they have a part to play. 
I make one other point about the Office of National Assessments.  Mr Justice  Hope in his report stated: 
Australia cannot hope to know everything that is going on in every part of the world. But we can try to keep informed about what people are doing and planning in areas of special significance to us. That requires us to be discriminating in choosing subjects for intelligence, collection and assessment. 
I add a point to that. We rely heavily on the interchange of intelligence, both raw and processed, with friendly allies. We have a lot to offer to allies in the form of raw intelligence. Our expertise in some fields is such that we have something to offer in the form of processed intelligence. However, the quality of our processed intelligence will be good only if our allies provide us with their relevant raw intelligence, Further it would be very uneconomic for us to try to produce processed intelligence on the full range of our interests. For these reasons our relations with our allies are of key importance to the efficiency of our intelligence. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  did a great disservice to our continuing relations in this field with the United States by his unjustified slur on United States intelligence officials in Australianot all of them from the Central Intelligence Agency by the way- for the Leader of the Opposition well knows that these officials are here with the knowledge and approval of the Australian Government for the valuable and appropriate role of the exchange of information. 
Of course, no one in the Parliament is in a position to deny absolutely that the CIA had any hand in the downfall of the Whitlam Government. The record of the way in which the CIA for some years was virtually out of control is well known. But it is a wildly improbable hypothesis. The Whitlam Government needed no external assistance to destroy itself. It was doing a very good job on its own from sheer muddle and incompetence. It is typical of the Whitlam paranoia to blame someone else, anyone else, for his faults. What is regrettable is the way in which, seeking to absolve himself, the Leader of the Opposition does not mind how much he damages important relations with our allies. As usual, he talks first and thinks second. That is enough about the Leader of the Opposition who is becoming increasingly irrelevant. 
I support the Bill because it provides a valuable step forward in our intelligence organisation, although I shall move a small amendment at the Committee stage which I think will give better effect to the intentions of the Government, or what I believe should be the purpose of the Government. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (2), omit paragraph (b), substitute the following paragraph: "(b) the Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation;". 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Garland)  has answered the point of this amendment to some extent, but if he has given us the brief as supplied by the Government I think the Government has misunderstood the value and the purpose of my amendment. Therefore I would like to explain it again. According to the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Bill itself, membership of the National Assessments Board is evidently to consist of the Director-General of the Board, with members from the Defence Force the Department of Foreign Affairs and an officer with expertise in economics. That leaves uncovered the areas of scientific intelligence, geographic intelligence and industrial intelligence. These are part of the functions of the Intelligence Organisation. Evidently that gap is to be filled by the person referred to in clause 6(2) (b), as an officer of the Department of Defence. Normally it would be the Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation who at the moment is a Foreign Affairs officer. 
I do not want to re-open my remarks on the intelligence role of officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs; I merely want to make the point that the Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation should be on the Board. I believe that more often than not that officer will be a member of the armed forces. Therefore we should not constrain the members of the National Assessments Board. It is constrained at the moment because it excludes the Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation from being a member of the National Assessments Board if he is a service officer. Therefore I have moved the amendment so that that position is to be held by the Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation instead of a member of the Department of Defence. 
I do not accept as valid the reason given by the Minister- that to put the Joint Intelligence Organisation into an Act is bad. I regard it as good because if and when the Government wishes to change the structure of the Joint Intelligence Organisation it would have to bring an amending Bill into the Parliament and this House could discuss the new organisation. I regard the argument advanced by the Minister not as being an argument against my proposal but rather as an argument in favour of it. In view of the fact that the Government is not prepared to accept this amendment, although I think it is important I would be prepared to accept an assurance by the Minister that this matter will be considered by the Government and, if necessary, I will endeavour to have it raised in the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. By way of preface I point out that both students and pensioners are given concessional fares on most forms of transport, except air travel. I ask the Minister Is it not true these days that air travel is frequently the most suitable for long distance travel by elderly people? Is there any reason why pensioners should not receive concessions on air travel equivalent to those given to students? Will the Minister approach the airlines to see whether something can be done about this problem? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
What sum has been spent on the post cyclone Tracy reconstruction of Darwin. 
How much of this sum has been spent on cultural facilities. 
Does the Government accept responsibility for the reconstruction of all cyclone Tracy damage. If so, when will the (a) new library and (b) new an gallery be completed. 
Is the need for a major all-weather performing arts centre in Darwin accepted; if so, when will a centre be completed. 
How do the cultural facilities in Alice Springs compare with similar sized cities in other parts of Australia. 
Are there any plans for a cultural centre in Alice Springs. If so, what are they. 
Does the Federal Government provide capital assistance for cultural facilities in the Northern Territory. 
When will this responsibility be transferred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and what financial resources will that body then have for the purpose. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present the Committee's report on and transcript of evidence of its inquiry into Industrial Support for Defence Needs and Allied Matters. I seek leave to make a short statement in relauon to the report. 
I should like to raise some aspects of the role of the Defence Force, by pointing out something I have pointed out before in this House. Like a famous admiral, I believe in conviction through reiteration. In this case what I want to say is that in my view our defence forces must be organised,- structured and designed to do the things that they will have to do on their own. This requires the Department of Defence to create realistic scenarios of the sorts of things we might have to do on our own- what types of operations, against what level of opposition and what external supply we can expect during such operations. This is very difficult and requires some complex assessments, but we must do it if we wish to have a coherent design for our defence forces. It is difficult, but risks must be run in peace time as well as in war. If we design our defence forces in that manner and if we become involved in wider operations that we are not capable of dealing with on our own and we are operating with allies, our defence forces might not be ideal but they will still be a useful contribution. At least they will be designed to do the things that we have to do on our own. 
One thing that we will have to do on our own is conduct surveillance of our surroundings and our approaches. The impending adoption of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone adds an area for surveillance almost the size of continental Australia. This is a major task for our defence forces and for our nation. I should point out one thing about surveillance. There is a distinction between that and reconnaissance. Reconnaissance is what occurs when one is looking for something specifically. If our intelligence is good, we should do a great deal of reconnaissance and very little general surveillance. Surveillance by its nature is extremely wasteful. 
Of course, surveillance is only one part of the problem. Ideally we should have a system by which all aircraft and ship targets in the surroundings of Australia are noted, identified and, where appropriate, arrested. This is extremely difficult. I should like to point out some of the problems involved. One suggestion frequently made is that we should use satellites. This is far from being as easy as it seems. One type of satellite, the geostationary satellite- one that is frequently used for communications- by the nature of the problem, must be over the equator and must be at a height of 36,000 kilometres. At that height resolution of targets with existing techniques is quite out of the question. The only way it would be possible would be if the target were prepared to co-operate by continuously transmitting. That does not seem very likely. For military or surveillance purposes a geostationary satellite at the present level of technology is not a reasonable option. 
An alternative is to have non-synchronous satellites. They typically are at heights of between 200 and 1,000 kilometres with a rotation period of about 90 minutes. In practice they 'see' a strip of the earth about 1,000 kilometres wide beneath their track. With them we could use opticalvisual or infra-red systems or radar. They too have very considerable problems. We would need to have six satellites in phased orbit to cover the approaches to Australia. They would have a life of only one year because of the drag at that height. Finally, resolution-using television is not good. Photography would give better results, but there is the problem of recovering the photographs after they have been taken. The cost of such a system would be about $350m a year, which is more than the Defence Force spends on its total capital program at the moment. So I suggest that satellites as a method of surveillance are not a practical proposition for Australia at the present level of technology. 
An alternative is to use over-the-horizon radar in which Australia is in the van of technology in the world. Jindalee, which is operating in Central Australia now on an experimental basis, gives some hope of long-range detection. It operates at high frequencies and bounces its beam off the ionosphere. The trouble is that the ionosphere is not a perfect reflecting surface. In any case, it changes in altitude at different times of the day. Therefore there are problems in identification of targets and the tracking of them. It seems that Jindalee, when developed in a few years time, will give a good long-range capability against aircraft, even low flying aircraft, and may have some capability against small surface craft. In the meantime we are faced with a problem that if the Services are to contribute they have to do so with their existing types of equipment. Therefore I welcome the decision to order new, bigger and longer-range patrol boats as an important contribution to this. 
The problem with the Defence Force being involved in surveillance is, firstly, that its operations tend to be uneconomic. Its equipment is far too complex for the relatively simple role of picking up infiltrating fishing boats and so on. It is an uneconomic way of doing it. On the other hand, if the Defence Force acquired simple aircraft, simple patrol craft capable of domg the role economically, such equipment would be very unsatisfactory in a military role. It is a dilemma for which there is no simple solution. The second point of concern is that surveillance of this type in peace time is not an official role of the Defence Force. If the Defence Force is to be used with special equipment for such a role as fishery surveillance, then I think it would be appropriate for that to be charged to the votes of the relevant departments. We are distorting our defence effort if we acquire special equipment for nonmilitary purposes. We may delude ourselves that it is something to do with defence but in fact it has nothing to do with defence. 
The third problem is a legal one. If the Defence Force is used for fishery protection, we will run into the constitutional problem that the Commonwealth fisheries Act is applicable only outside the 3-mile limit At least, so far that is all that has been applied. State fisheries legislation applies inside the 3-mile limit and the States, except in the case of Western Australia, have not given the necessary authority to the Commonwealth officers and the Navy to implement the State laws. What we badly need, I think, is a referral particularly by Queensland, for the necessary authority for the Navy to implement the State fisheries Act inside the 3-mile limit. 
The final point is that magistrates' hearings are wasting a great deal of the time of the people who have to arrest and tow a fishing boat in and wait for a hearing. That patrol boat and its crew are not employed on their proper tasks while they are waiting for the legal processes to grind on. We should look very carefully at how we can expedite the handling of such cases. These are all matters which must be cleared up. There is no doubt that the Defence Force must make a contribution to the proper surveillance of the surroundings of this country, but have to see that they are used in the most economic and effective way and not to the detriment of their prime role, which is the defence of this country. 
My question is to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen a suggestion that one Minister could act as a combined 
Minister for Defence and Foreign Affairs? Are the political and administrative responsibilities of the Minister for Defence such that he could also act as Minister for another major department? When the Foreign Affairs ministry was last combined with other major responsibilities, were those other responsibilities carried out in a satisfactory manner? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
How many students does the Minister anticipate will be forced to abandon studies at independent business colleges due to the proposed withdrawal of TEAS allowances for college students. 
Would it be consistent with the Minister's often stated support for the independent school sector to maintain subsidies for independent business schools so as to maintain an alternative to Government technical colleges 
How much would it cost to extend subsidies, presently accorded to 1 8 non-government business schools, to aU other non-profit independent business colleges. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns the means testing of family allowances. Was the introduction of a means test on family allowances aimed principally at wealthy children who receive an unearned income through inherited property or through devices such as income splitting by trusts? Is it possible to means test these people without discouraging enterprising children, many of whom are from low income families? What would be the cost to revenue of exempting from the family allowance means test any income earned by the personal endeavour of the dependent child? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that consumer confidence is a vital factor in economic recovery and the reduction of unemployment? Does the Minister have the latest retail sales figures to July 1978? If so, will he inform the Senate of the trends in retail sales over the year to July? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
What was the (a) make; and (b) country of manufacture, of each car supplied to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Missions in the 6 months ended 30 June 1 978. 
In cases where the cars were not of Australian manufacture, what were the reasons for the non-supply of an Australian car. 
I should like at the outset of my Senate career to pay a tribute to my predecessor,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack.  Sir Magnus  was a great senator, a member of this chamber for 18 years and its  President  for three; but above all he was a fighter for the Senate, for its prestige, its organisation and its power. He made a great contribution to all three. It will be a difficult task to follow him. For myself, it is an honour to be elevated to the distinction of membership of this upper House after some years of labouring in the nether regions. There are. not many of us who have made this transition but, curiously enough, in recent years three of us have been so elevated. Upper Houses have a long tradition. An historian has recorded that the ancient Goths had the wise custom of debating all important questions twice, once drunk and once sober- drunk that their decisions might have vigour, and sober that they might have discretion. Of course, I draw no modern parallels. I am all in favour of vigour and discretion, but I am not sure that Gothic methods would be acceptable today. Perhaps they lived in a simpler age. 
Every generation probably thinks that theirs is a peculiarly difficult age, but ours does seem more difficult than most. Every established institution is under attack. Democracy itself is under siege all over the world. We must not assume that the democratic system is bound to succeed, or even survive, without any effort by us. After all, there are not more than 47 true democracies left in the world today, and even to get that many one has to count tiny ones such as Nauru, with a voting population of 1,798. It is probably true that if one counts only significant democracies there are fewer today than there were 50 years ago. Democracies certainly now represent a very much lower proportion of the total number of independent nations than they did then. So we surely have no grounds for complacency. Disraeli once said, ironically, that in a democracy it is sometimes necessary for a government to bow to the will of the majority. Not so ironically, if our democratic system is to work there must be the consent of the governed: Not just the bare majority but the great bulk of the population must accept the system. That is what is so worrying about the alienation of so many, particularly of the young, and their feeling that the system is too remote and too unresponsive to their needs. 
Responsible government is, or any way used to be, a dynamic concept. With our too-rigid Constitution, we are in danger of embalming this dynamic concept in the state that it was in the 1890s. Democracy must remain dynamic. Like a cannon ball, once it stops advancing, its usefulness is over. The tragedy of the Constitutional Conventions is the chance that is being missed. True, some agreements have been reached on minor matters, but little has been done about fundamentals. It is disappointing to see the way the Conventions divide on party lines on key issues, with the left hand undoing what the right hand has done, or possibly the other way around. There is no future there. Even if it were possible to bulldoze a resolution on party lines, through a Convention, such a controversial proposal could never survive a referendum. 
One relatively minor problem that has not yet been solved is that of the holding of simultaneous elections. It is possible to make a good case that the present three-year term for the House of Representatives is too short. It is five years in Britain and Canada, for instance. With a short term for the House of Representatives most governments- although admittedly certainly not this one- would be reluctant to put forward tough, long-term policies that they know to be necessary, because of the imminence of an election. The situation is made much worse if the already too-short interval between elections is further shortened by a separate Senate election. This is a perfect recipe for short-sighted government, and short-sighted government is bad government. The proposal on simultaneous elections that was put to the people last year, and rejected by them then, was produced by the Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 and was endorsed by the 1976 Hobart Constitutional Convention. It was proper to be put to the people, but I do not think that it was the best solution. The problem was tackled the wrong way around. Instead of bringing the Senate into line with the House of Representatives, we should have brought the House of Representatives into line with us by giving it a fixed threeyear term. Then both Houses would always be in line. 
There would, of course, be one consequential problem. Such a fixed term would remove the power effectively given to the Prime Minister to dissolve the House of Representatives before the end of its term. I know of nothing in the theory of responsible government that necessitates giving a Prime Minister the power to hold an election at a time which suits his political advantage. All that would be needed would be to have a constitutional provision that if a government could not be formed in the House of Representatives there should be an election for a new House of Representatives to complete the unexpired portion of the fixed term. I should like to see this issue of simultaneous elections, through fixed terms of both Houses, go to a referendum at the next general election without bringing in other issues, such as a longer term for Parliament. I would hate to argue on the hustings for a 10 year term for senators. I would like to see the simultaneous election issue stand or fall on its own. I think it would stand. Although the matter of simultaneous elections is not an issue which should be swept under the carpet, just because it is not likely to be a problem in the near future, there are other much more important problems. The role of this upper House is the dominant one. I hope that it will not seem presumptuous of me if I comment on this issue, but now that I have been a member of both Houses perhaps I have a different perspective. In any case, I think it is proper that a new senator declare where he stands on this critical issue. 
I think one must start back at first principles. The perceived role of upper Houses is changing. In the 18th and 19th centuries an upper House was seen as a check on change and on the advance of democracy, and upper Houses usually had appropriate membership restrictions. 'All second chambers', says one authority, 'have been instituted, not from disinterested love of mature deliberation but because there was something their makers wished to defend against the rest of the community, especially inherited possessions and status'. Madison, the principal author of the United States Constitution, campaigned for a strong Senate 'as a check on the democracy: It cannot therefore be made too strong'. The Australian colonial upper Houses, which originally were the focus of our selfgovernment, undoubtedly became constituted on this basis. They were designed to protect property and until quite recently for most of them one had to have a property qualification before one could be on the electoral roll. 
It was this anti-democratic role of upper Houses which led Abbe Sieyes to make his famous, but actually rather fatuous, comment that 'if the upper House agrees with the lower it is superfluous; if it disagrees it ought to be abolished '. This defensive role of upper Houses gradually ceased to be politically acceptable, and following a sort of political Parkinson's law- or perhaps necessity was the mother of inventionother justifications of upper Houses came to the fore. The political guru of the nineteenth century, Walter Bagehot, was tepid about upper Houses. He wrote 'that with a perfect lower House it is certain that an upper House would be scarcely of any value, but with the actual lower House a revising and leisured legislature is extremely useful if not quite necessary'. The Bryce report of 1918 on the House of Lords held that the main function of second chambers 'was the interposition of so much delay and not more, in the passage of a Bill into law as might be necessary to enable the opinion of the nation to be adequately expressed upon it'. But who was to say when the opinion of the nation had been adequately expressed, and what that opinion was? How was the upper House to be limited to imposing no more delay than was necessary? These were and are the unsolved questions. 
This role, too, has been overtaken by events. In all Westminster style parliaments this century has seen, through the strength of party discipline, the domination of the lower House by the Cabinet. This has been reflected in a dramatic expansion of the bureaucracy, a multiplication of statutory authorities and an extraordinary growth in administrative law and subordinate legislation. The power of the courts to constrain the Executive has been reduced. The lower House has almost none. The restraining role, if it is to be performed at all, must fall largely on the upper House. 
The House of Lords, which once stood guard over the actions of a too powerful House of Commons', wrote another authority, 'now stands guard over a too powerful Cabinet'. We have done something unique in this country to restrain the power of the Executive. The Government deserves great praise for the appeals system it has set up to review administrative decisions; and the Senate has its own Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Both these bodies are very valuable, but they look only at the legality and propriety of ministerial and bureaucratic decisions. The desirability of the legislation itself is not really looked at by anyone. 
It is not very rewarding to examine what the authors of our Constitution meant to achieve. We are left with what they did; not what they meant to do. They combined the British concept of responsible government with the American concept of a strong Senate, and hoped for the best. The principal author of the Constitution, Griffith, was clearly of the opinion that the logical inconsistency would work itself out in practice, presumably through constitutional amendments. This has not happened. The Chief Justice recently gave his theory of the Constitution by which the Government is responsible to both Houses of Parliament. To put it mildly, it would be difficult to see how this would work except on occasions when one party was in firm control of both Houses. This is likely to be the exception rather than the rule because of the radically different electoral systems of the two Houses. If the Constitution means what the Chief Justice says it means, then, as one of Dickens' characters said: 'The law is an ass '. For what it is worth, that interpretation was not considered seriously by the authors of the Constitution. I believe that we have a duty to turn away from the role of setting ourselves up as a rival lower House, with all the enormously disruptive political consequences of that, and to look for more useful and rewarding complementary roles. I believe that we have immense scope in that area. 
Clearly, the Senate was set up originally for the first of the upper House purposes I outlinedthe defence of the rights and privileges of the previously independent colonies. This has been a common worry both in old federations such as the United States and in new ones such as West Germany and Australia. But is the role sensible or even possible? There are certainly difficulties. Deakin summed it up very well at the Constitutional Convention 80 years ago when he said: The contest will not be, never has been and cannot be between States and States. It must be and will be between the representatives of the States according to the different political principles upon which they are returned '. Deakin was very much in a small minority then, but his prescient words, in my view, have been exactly borne out, as anyone studying the records of this chamber would speedily conclude. But others do feel that senators are effectively protecting and promoting the interests of their States, presumably in secret. No doubt I will find out the true answer in due course. 
But there is one important aspect of protecting the States collectively which seems always to have been neglected. That is the decentralisation of Executive power. In any large organisation, whether it be the Army or the Commonwealth Public Service, there will always be pressure towards centralism. It is usually called 'empire building'. The consequence is that advice coming to Ministers from the Commonwealth Public Service will always be biased towards centralism in Canberra. This is an inescapable fact of bureaucratic life and, coupled with the very natural inclination of Ministers to get the full political advantage out of the political risks they run, means that legislation introduced into this Parliament will always tend to be biased towards overcentralisation, whatever the political colour of the government- though no doubt this will occur less flagrantly with some than with others. 
The proper way for a federation to be run is for the Executive power to be delegated to the body closest to the people in which that power can be effectively exercised. I believe that a prime role of the Senate should be to examine every relevant piece of legislation to see that the Executive power is appropriately decentralised. If we do not do it, it will not be done. I give notice now that I shall carry out such an examination, as objectively as I can, and in consultation with State Ministers where appropriate, and I will propose any necessary amendments. 
What about the problem of controlling the excessive power of the Executive, which is straining and vexing all countries which are using the Westminster system of government? Such control cannot be carried out by the House of Representatives because any government whose measures are consistently altered in the lower House must be assumed to be in the last stages of impotence or dissolution. Party committees are a frail reed, and in any case they meet in secret. I do not think the option of the American system of a rigid division of powers is an acceptable alternative. In the post-Nixon era the American system of checks and balances seems more check than balance. But we can learn from the Americans. For instance, the United States Senate for the last year or more has been holding hearings on  President  Carter's energy package. No doubt excessive lobbying and political pressures are involved, but have uncovered major flaws in the Administration's original proposals, and the process is infinitely preferable to the way in which a major decision such as our decision to raise oil prices immediately to world parity goes through this Parliament with almost no serious discussion, despite the enormous environmental, economic and oil exploration implications and the dramatic structural effects on the car industry and the energy consumption profile. Certainly, we have heard no evidence from experts on the consequences of this decision- a decision for which this Parliament, not the Executive, must ultimately take responsibility. I am not arguing that the decision is wrong; I am merely saying that most of us do not know whether it is right or wrong and are making no collective efforts to find out. 
As we are operating at the moment we are accepting responsibility without power. I think the answer lies in the gradual development of the Westminster system to a point somewhat closer to the American system, with a strong questioning Senate balancing the Executive. In this process the Senate, unlike any other chamber in the Westminster system, is uniquely placed to play a key role. Unlike any other second chamber, we cannot effectively be whipped into line by the threat of an election or of abolition. 
For this role an effective committee system is essential. Remarkable advances have been made in our committee system in the last decade. These perhaps have been more noticeable in the field of inquiry than in legislative review, although even there the response by the Executive has been patchy. I do not believe that we can ever function effectively as a House of review of the proposals of the Executive while we have Ministers here. The five Ministers are, in effect, five Trojan horses here on behalf ofthe Executive. Of course the Ministers are charming people, but the Trojans thought their horse was charming tooand look what happened to them. I cannot conceive how this chamber can act as an effective House of review while five of its most distinguished members are devoted to getting Government legislation through with a minimum of fuss, a minimum of alteration and a minimum of delay. There is to my mind an inherent and insoluble conflict of interest in this. 
There is also one odd minor effect of having Senate Ministers and that is that naturally they like to introduce their own Bills in this chamber. This makes the members of the House of Representatives the reviewers, a role for which I can say with some experience they are uniquely unfitted. The decision on whether or not we continue to have Ministers appointed from this chamber is in my view crucial to the future development of the Senate. I suspect that the majority of senators might be in favour of the cessation of such appointments. If that be true it would be intolerable for the Executive to continue to be able effectively to dictate the method of operation of the body supposed to be reviewing its actions. We should create an early opportunity for this chamber to make its opinion on this crucial question crystal clear. 
I am of course delighted that the recent change in Standing Orders has resulted in some Bills going to committees. We will not have achieved the aim of having a proper house of review until all Bills automatically go to the appropriate committees. Of course, some will be dealt with very quickly but the appropriate committees must have the right and the duty to deal with the Bills. What Bills go to committees must certainly not be decided by the Executive. In fact, prima facie, any Bill the Executive does not want reviewed should be one which should be given the most searching examination as to why it does not want it reviewed. What we have done so far is just a first step, though maybe a prudent first step. What we must aim for is for all legislation that comes to us to be seen by the community to be reviewed. When considering Bills, we must call for evidence from expert groups and where appropriate, from the general public. Only by doing this can we remove the very general alienation of the community from the parliamentary process. The average voter does not feel that voting for a kind of shopping list of proposals at a general election, some of which he probably does not agree with anyway, gives him any significant influence on the machinery of government. If we wish the democratic system to thrive we must involve the community more in its processes. 
It is not enough, incidentally, to allow a Bill to lie on the table of the Senate. As far as I can see the public comments then go not to the senators but to the relevant Minister and through him to the public servants who are in fact the authors of the Bill. That is not legislative review at all. We must have legislative review in this chamber and not be satisfied with review by the bureaucracy. It is perhaps symptomatic of our problems that lobbyists do not really bother to go to much more than token efforts to lobby members of Parliament. I am not against lobbyists, who fulfil a valuable role, provided they are forced to give their evidence in public. At the moment the wise lobbyists concentrate on public servants in secret.  Mr President,  what we have in this country to a very considerable extent is not only government by the Public Service and ministry but also legislation by the Public Service and Cabinet rather than by Parliament. This must change. 
Three things would flow from what I propose. Firstly, as I have said with great regret, it would be necessary to dispense with Ministers in this chamber. Secondly, there would be substantially less legislation passed. This would be an unmitigated blessing. We have far too much legislation as it is. Thirdly, it could be necessary for the 
Government to be prepared to compromise much more in order to get its legislation through. That, too, would be a great blessing. The idea that legislation as produced by the Public Service and accepted or modified by the Cabinet should be sacrosanct is utter nonsense. It could nearly always be improved by thorough public examination. We all know the way in which rigid Party attitudes melt away when a committee is gathered around a table hearing public evidence and that there is a very general desire on the part of the committee to get the best answer to the particular problems before it. Incidentally, we would not have to be too worried about the sort of stalemates which develop in America between the Executive and Congress. Unlike us, America has no procedure for resolving deadlocks; a procedure that prevents any Australian Senate pressing too hard when out of tune with public opinion on a major issue. 
Two things will no doubt be said about what I propose. It will be said that this will be a vast increase in the Senate's power; and also that the giving up of Ministers would be a remarkable act of self-abnegation by senators. This Senate has always been potentially powerful. I do not want during my maiden speech to enter into the area of our power over Supply. I think my views on that are known. But the use of our existing power in a different area along the lines that I have suggested would I believe be wholly beneficial. We do not need more power; we just need to use beneficially the power that we have already. What about the question of the loss of ministerial privileges and power? On the question of privileges I think it would be appropriate, in place of Ministers, for the chairmen of major committees in the Senate to have the pay, privileges and most important of all, the personal staffs of Ministers, working not for themselves but for their committees as a whole. So much for the privileges. If it is power we are talking about, we have only to compare the power of a  chairman  of a major committee of the United States Senate with the power of a Minister in one of our recent governments. I have no doubt where the greater power lies. 
But it is not individual privileges or powers that I am talking about. This Senate has become a remarkable instrument of public inquiry into key political issues. I believe we must turn away from the role of trying to compete with the House of Representatives on its level, for the end product of that will be the destruction of responsible government. Let that House remain the electoral college for the government and a rubber stamp  forthedecisionsoftheexecutive.thoseprizes  are not very rewarding; let it have them. We are desperately needed in roles which we alone can perform, as a watchdog on the proper decentralisation of Executive power and as a public chamber of review of the implementation of the policy decisions of the Executive. We have the chance over the next few years to make the most important and dramatic advances in the system of parliamentary government to occur this century. I hope we will seize our chance. 
I am glad that  Senator Gietzelt  has turned this debate in the direction of the future of the economy and the problems of employment. This is a most important subject, but I must say that I found some of his views simplistic and conspiratorial. In fact, they are quite difficult to discuss because he tended to start from a very dubious statement and then draw the most extreme deductions from it. Nevertheless, it is a subject of great importance, one that I would like to see this chamber debate at some length. We have the material for such a debate. The recent speech on employment by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was as  Senator Gietzelt  implied, a breath of fresh air. The present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is one of the most dedicated, compassionate men- he is also one of the most hard working men- ever to have held that portfolio. It is a tragedy that he has had to preside over the high levels of unemployment that have been endemic in recent years. The Minister has recognised that unemployment will not be polite enough to go away if it is ignored. The recognition of a problem is the first step towards its solution. The Minister's very clear and frank assessment of future levels of unemployment is very valuable. 
It is important to remember, though, that it is only an estimate and necessarily includes some important assumptions. The Minister has been quite open about these. He assumes that young people will continue in full time education at no more than the present rate. This may be right, but it is worth noting that the level of participation in education by our 16 to 25-year-old age group is very low by the standards of other developed countries. We are not investing much education capital in our future. Perhaps the pedagogues have something to answer for there.  Mr Street  assumes also a return by 1 98 1 to the pre- 1974 trend in female participation rates in the work force. In recent years there has been an explosive increase in these participation rates, although our rates are still below those of other industrial countries. Given these assumptions- I hope that the Minister is wrong in his assumption about education rates- the Minister estimates that the labour force will increase by 1 10,000 people a year between now and 1 985. Creating this number of jobs is not necessarily impossible. After all, we created jobs at the rate of 120,000 a year during the 1960s. Why can we not do it again? 
Some people are crying havoc at the prospects of the technological revolution- computer technology and so on- a revolution which undoubtedly already has had a marked impact on the manufacturing sector and is now having the same effect in the information processing area, particularly in the automation of routine clerical and typing operations. But there is nothing new about technological change. We should welcome it, not dread it. After all, we are a rich, reasonably well-educated and politically stable country. We are in an ideal position to exploit new technology if the Government gives the necessary direction and leadership. We would really have to worry if technology were moving in the opposite direction towards more labour intensive industries. If that were happening, with our high standard of living and high wage rates we would really be in trouble. But that is not happening. The trend is going the other way. We should be hopeful, not gloomy. 
For the information of  Senator Gietzelt,  the simple fact about technological progresswhether it be the invention of the steam engine, the spread of automated machine tools, the discovery of electricity, the coming of the silicon chip micro computer or the invention of the wheel- is that it always results in a large increase in the productivity of labour. Gross product per head of population increases dramatically. If wisely directed, a consequent rise in national income must lead to a rise in total employment. Of course, there will be transitional problems. We cannot simply let market forces decide what happens and let the devil take the hindmost. Such a policy would not be politically or socially possible. We must have the advantages of the second industrial revolution without the evil social consequences of the first. There is therefore a need for active national manpower and structural adjustment policies. Two important studies have been commissioned by the Government- one on education and training by Professor Williams and one on structural problems by  Sir John  Crawford. I hope that they come up with some sensible recommendations. I will reserve my opinions until I see the recommendations. Some government inquiries come up with rather foolish and sometimes selfserving recommendations. If they do come up with wise but difficult recommendations, I hope that the Government will have the courage to implement them. 
One key element in the transition of our economy will be our tariff policy. I must record that I am very concerned about the way that tariffs have been used in recent years. They seem to be used to preserve the status quo when they should be used to encourage change and development. Tariffs do have legitimate roles- as a revenue source, for instance. It is worth recording that the first Budget introduced into this Parliament was for f 4m, of which 78 per cent was raised by customs and excise. Tariffs have a legitimate role also as a means of encouraging an infant industry, although some of our infants seem to have reached senility without being weaned. Tariffs have a role also in enabling a vital defence industry to survive, and also an industry which, although not itself economic, has spin-offs which enable other industries which are economic to exist. Tariffs might have a role even in the current international war which is graced with the name of 'resources diplomacy'. Where tariffs are not effective in the long run is in protecting jobs. In this role in the long run they always do more harm than good. Unfortunately this is the way in which very largely they are being used at the moment. 
But it is not only in the long term that tariffs are damaging. I will give the Senate an example which came to my notice recently. It concerns a product called vinyl record compound. The problem is this: Australian produced vinyl is inferior in quality and, if used, produces records which discriminating buyers reject in favour of imported records. For the same reason we cannot export locally produced records to what otherwise would be a good market. Only very small quantities of vinyl are produced in Australia and it is not worth while for manufacturers to install new equipment to produce a world class product. There is a substantial tariff on imported vinyl. So it cannot be used economically by local recording companies if they wish to compete with imported records. So we have this crazy situation: In order to protect the handful of jobs of people producing this vinyl we are losing the chance of creating many times that number of jobs in the recording and record making industry with a chance of substantial exports as well. That is only one example. 
If we look at the secondary effects of tariffs used solely as a means of protecting jobs I think we will find that they nearly always do more harm than good. We should be using tariffs not to protect the status quo but to encourage technological advance. If we do not do this we will find ourselves, in a generation, lagging badly behind countries such as Japan, South Korea or Singapore while still solemnly using tariffs to protect jobs from the so-called cheap labour of countries which in fact will have a higher standard of living and technology than we have. Tariffs must be an instrument of change. That is their value. Of course, they can only be a part of the transition to this second industrial revolution but I mention them because at the moment they are being used in exactly the wrong way. 
But all this is in the longer term. We have a much more immediate crisis on our hands, one which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations believes will get worse next year. I think people tend to underestimate the damage which unemployment does to a society. We are in danger of embittering an entire generation. Any economic system that cannot provide work of a reasonably suitable nature for those willing and able to work is in need of change. What then are we to do? I agree with the central thrust of the Government's present economic policy- the reduction of the rate of inflation- and also the means employed, which is a version of the monetarist theory with minor backslidings. I think it probable that without the disciplines of such a policy it would not have been possible to bring our rate of inflation under control. So far so good. But what next? We are restoring the foundations of our economy which was so recklessly destroyed by the Whitlam Government. What we need now is a plan for what we do after the essential pre-condition of reducing, the rate of inflation has been achieved, for the reduction of inflation is not the end of the matter. After all, in the 1 930s we had zero inflation and low interest rates but we also had a great depression. The trouble with the monetarist economic theory is that there is no obvious reason why its stable state should be at the level of full or near full employment unless, of course, wages are assumed to be infinitely depressible. This is possible only in dictatorships such as Brazil and even there it does not seem to work very well in the long run. 
It is quite out of the question here. Keynesian theories of full employment through demand management have come in for some heavy criticism recently, although this is aimed quite often not so much at what Keynes said or would have said as at some grossly over simplified versions of his theories. The problem, of course, is how to prevent inflation through wage pressure from over powerful unions as the economy reaches full employment, thus wrecking everything that has been carefully built up. 
It is worth noting that we have in our arbitration system an almost unique means of controlling wages in such circumstances provided the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's decisions are respected and honoured. This was largely achieved during the 1950s and the 1960s when by and large we managed to balance the three goals of reasonable growth, full employment and low inflation better than any other country. We can do it again if we can restore the position of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. But, to put it mildly, the Government's recent attacks on the wisdom and commonsense of the Commission do not help in this process. Employers also have a role to play. Again, to put it mildly, it does not help to ensure union acceptance of wage restraint when employers argue for the economic necessity of such restraint at the same time as they grant their executives salary rises, largely through tax avoiding benefits, which are far in excess of what they say is economically acceptable for their employees. Australians have a keen sense of fair play and they are not damn fools. 
Although the restoration and enhancement of the arbitration system is essential if our recovery from the present recession is not to result in another inflationary boom followed by another recession and although we must work to enhance the arbitration system, there are three other pressing problems to which I should like to direct the attention of the Senate. The first problem is that of real wages. Contrary to many statements, the level of real wages, taking into account over award payments, has not fallen in recent years for those who are lucky enough to have jobs. Nearly everyone agrees that present real wages are out of line with the productivity of labour in this country. The evidence is obvious. One example is the way in whch employers, particularly those in manufacturing industry, are shedding labour whenever they can. It is true that our productivity is creeping up- at a pitiful 2 per cent a year- and that in about five years it will have eliminated the wages overhang caused by the disastrous real wage explosion of 1973 and 1974. 
But five years! Must we wait so long? Must the unemployed wait so long? We must show clearly and convincingly to all concerned that if those in jobs are prepared to accept restraint in their real wages there will be a more than equivalent increase in the real wages of the unemployed by giving them jobs. This argument is the most vital one we have to put to the community. It is one we certainly have not got across yet. 
The second urgent problem is that of providing jobs for young people. As I have said, the work force is expected to grow by 1 10,000 a year. Many of these people will be young, mostly unqualified people and all will be lacking work experience. The tragedy is that our award wage policy is depriving many of them of the chance of a job. The award for young people in their first job is far too close to the adult rate and employers naturally choose experienced people, often middle aged women re-entering the work force, in preference to juniors. One can see the damage caused by such high award rates for young people in a recent case in the Australian Capital Territory. The fast food organisation, McDonald's, recently closed two of its outlets here, claiming that it pays kids in New York $2.60 an hour, in England $3.00 an hour and in Scandinavia $3.30 an hour, but in the Australian Capital Territory it has to pay them $5.36 an hour, which is the adult rate. When the union secretary involved was asked why his union was destroying jobs for young people he said he was not going to stand by while multi-national profiteers took advantage of the working class. He added that the kids did not know they were being exploited. This was given in justification of having destroyed their jobs. It is all ominously reminiscent of the American major in Vietman who said that in order to liberate a village it had been necessary to destroy it. 
One can see the level of overpayment of young teenagers in their first jobs by what the National Employment and Training scheme pays employers to take them on- $45 a week. I ask honourable senators to think about this matter. It is a transfer payment from the average taxpayer, frequently a young married man with a family, to enable an employer to pay a young teenager more than the employer thinks he is worth, and it occurs at a time when that teenager has more money to spend on himself than he will have for most of the rest of his life. The whole system is absurd. The pressure of trade unions to raise the level of junior wages closer and closer to the level of adult wages is an immense disservice to the prospects of employment of teenagers. We must restore some sense of reality to this aspect of wage policy. 
The third great immediate problem is that of the whole rickety structure of penalty rates that has been built up over the years. The Full Bench of the South Australian Industrial Commission recently correctly described these penalty rates as a cancerous growth. I am not against all penalty rates. People who are obliged to work more than the standard 40-hour working week should receive some loading for their overtime. That is fair enough. But extra pay for shift work, or for work done on Saturdays or Sundays, is an anachronism. Many people prefer to work on weekends. They can play golf, if that is what they like, during the week when the golf courses are clear. I accept that there are some days- Christmas Day, for instance- which are such strong family days that those people who have to work on them should be compensated. But even in this area things have got out of control. 
For instance, last Christmas the aircraft refuellers threatened to disrupt all the Christmas aircraft schedules because they did not think that they were being paid enough. What were they being paid? They were receiving triple pay on Christmas Day. Perhaps that was fair enough in view of the special nature of that day. They also received triple pay on Boxing Day. But they were prepared to go on strike because they were offered double pay rather than triple pay for working on the day after Boxing Day. This is the height of midsummer madness. We must dismantle this whole rickety structure of penalty rates if we want our service industries to expand, as expand they must. To modify a remark made by a previous Labor Treasurer, one man's penalty rates deprives another person of the chance of a job 
The need for reform is particularly urgent in the tourist and catering industries. It is obvious that the increased employment we are seeking will not come in manufacturing industry. There is not really going to be much scope in the mining sector or on the land. If expansion there is to be, it must come in the tertiary sector. Yet we are in the ridiculous situation that manufacturing industry is shedding labour but the service industries, although by any reasonable standards they are short of labour, are not taking up that labour. Why not? The answer is obvious; they cannot afford to do so. For instance, the Australian people once received two mail deliveries a day. Now we have only one because we could not afford the second delivery. If we go to restaurants at weekends we will see that they are ludicrously understaffed. This is because they cannot afford to pay the penalty rates to the extra staff that is required. 
One could give innumerable instances to illustrate this point but I will content myself with just one which was quoted in the New South Wales Parliament recently. It was the case of a prominent motel on the north coast which used to employ 25 permanent girls and five barmen as well as a family of four who were the owners. That motel provided three meals a day, seven days a week. But recent awards gave penalty rates of time and a half on Saturday, time and threequarters for Sunday and double time and a half- that is triple pay- for public holidays. What happened? Lunch is now not provided on any day and dinner is not provided on Sunday. The staff was reduced to one-third of what it was. Eighteen people have been laid off, all because of the absurd penalty rates. Of course, this is only one example but it can be multiplied many times to show what is happening. 
The problem of penalty rates is reflected in the declining employment in hotels and motels- a decrease of 7.6 per cent last year- at a time when by all rational considerations employment in this field should have been increasing. Penalty rates for shift work also help to make our manufacturing industries uneconomic. One of the most important ways to get out of the present economic morass we are in is to have a major rethink on this anachronistic web of penalty rates that has been built up. It has been estimated that more than 100,000 jobs would be created immediately if we could do away with penalty rates and shift allowances. I repeat that 100,000 jobs could be created. 
How are we to tackle these three problemsthe way in which wages have outstripped productivity, the problem of unrealistic wage rates for teenagers in their first jobs and the problem of absurd penalty rates? The first place where we must tackle them is, of course, before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I must say that I do not think we are going about this in the right way. Stand-over tactics, criticism and threats of retaliation are not likely to be very rewarding. After all, Conciliation and Arbitration commissioners are human and the normal reaction to bullying is to try to do the opposite of what is demanded. Moreover, the powers of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are limited constitutionally to conciliation and arbitration. If commissioners meekly adopt what the Government demands so aggressively, they will tend to lose all credibility with the other parties to the arbitration. The Government's present approach, I am afraid, is likely to be strongly counterproductive. 
I would like to see the Government's interventions before the Commission less frequent and more closely reasoned. I say 'less frequent' because if the Government intervenes in every matter, no matter how minor, a sort of Gresham 's law applies and the credibility of the Government on major issues is reduced. But even more important than this is the manner and quality of the Government's interventions. There has been very severe criticism of the quality of the recent economic submissions by the Government to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Perhaps the low light came in a recent case when the Government was arguing for 12-month intervals between wage hearings in the interests of reducing the rate of inflation. An exhibit was tendered which showed quite clearly that at a time of falling inflation quarterly hearings would be more effective at achieving the aim than annual hearings. After questioning from the bench, the exhibit was hastily withdrawn. But the damage was done. We must do better than this. 
I think that the Government, as representing the community's interests and not being a direct party to the dispute, should normally limit itself to putting information on the general economic situation and the economic consequences of the various proposals put to the Commission by the contending parties. It should be the exception rather than the rule that the Government takes a partisan position. But an even more important point, if we wish to improve the quality of the Government's submissions, is that if the Government is putting economic arguments to the Commission it should be done by economists, in particular by the Government's principal economic advisers such as the  Deputy  Secretary of the Treasury,  Mr John  Stone. They should give evidence to the Commission, they should answer the Commission's questions and they should be subjected to cross-examination. It is absurd to have complex economic arguments put to the Commission through the filter of the silk and wig of our legal counsel. Certainly, if political arguments have to be advanced, this should not be done by a public servant. That area is appropriate for counsel. But I repeat that the Government should, as far as possible, limit itself to putting forward the economic background clearly and authoritatively and then let the Commission make the deductions. After all, the commissioners are not fools. But I think that they are in danger sometimes of making economic and political judgments which are not really within their competence. For instance, in its June judgment the Commission openly aimed by its indexation decision to alter the distributional effects of the new tax scales. That was a political decision and to alter the scales was beyond the competence and beyond the role of the Commission. 
But even if we can persuade the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make wise decisions, it is another thing to get them accepted, particularly by the trade union movement. We have not really tried to persuade the unions that the Government's economic policy is aimed at benefiting the whole community. If we cannot persuade the unions of this, wise Commission decisions may be wasted on the desert air. Moreover, there are many other organisations involved in the problems that I have outlined. For instance, many of the penalty rates are decided not by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission but by the arbitration systems of the States. The States are also involved in another major way. Employment is dramatically affected by on-costs. Honourable senators may not be aware that our on-costs- that is, the extra cost to employers of each employee- amount to about 150 per cent of the employees wages, the highest in the developed world. Most of these oncostspayroll tax and workers compensation, for instance- are the responsibility of State governments, not the Federal Government. 
It seems to me that we need urgently a conference of all interested parties- Federal Government, State governments, unions, employers, Federal and State arbitration systems- to try to find our way out of this morass. In my view, it is an urgent task. I suppose that if we do nothing some of the problems may solve themselves with time. Time may or may not be the great healer, but undoubtedly it inflicts deep suffering, particularly on the unemployed. Surely we owe it to the community to see whether, by discussion, we can work more quickly towards agreed solutions to our problems. Whether we like it or not, all Australians are in the same economic unit and we succeed or fail together. We might be surprised at how much good will and common sense would emerge from a national conference on the economy, provided that the issues were presented clearly and fairly. Of course, such a conference might not succeed, but the alternative of sitting back and waiting for something to turn up is worse. We should at least give such a conference a try. After all, we have nothing to lose but our unemployment. 
I present the following petition from 59 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Acting Clerk- A petition has been lodged for presentation as follows: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is it a fact that Federal and State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs will meet next month to decide a location for the proposed national companies and securities commission? Is it essential that this commission should be established in a major financial and business centre? Does this totally rule out any question of the commission being established in 
Canberra? Is it a fact that Melbourne is the major financial centre of this country and the most conveniently located centre? Will the Minister urge his colleague, at the meeting next month, to press for the establishment of this commission in Melbourne? 
by leave- I should like to draw the attention of the Senate to one matter which was not included in the report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and which might give the impression, quite wrongly, that the Committee had slipped up and let something through that should not have got through. I refer, of course, to the Australian Postal Commission's by-law on non-redirectable mail, which was tabled in this chamber on 22 August. On the face of it, the by-law provides a service whereby the sender, any sender, can specify that certain mail is not to be redirected. Special envelopes have to be used and the sender's name and address have to be put on the envelope. The recipient must also be notified that the sender is dispatching non.redirectable mail to him. This seems to me to be a useful service which could be used by anyone, particularly as I think there could reasonably be a reduction in the postage rate of such letters. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee unanimously felt that there was nothing objectionable in the by-law as published. Therefore no report on it was made to this Senate. Whether the use of this procedure in particular circumstances by government departments is appropriate is a political matter for which the Minister concerned must be responsible to this Parliament. In regard to the particular case that came up- the use of the scheme for sending dole cheques- the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has made it quite clear that she has no intention of permitting it. Nevertheless, I hope the Postal Commission continues the scheme as a useful community service and the means of achieving cheaper postage. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the current industrial dispute at Thomas Borthwick and Sons (Australasia) Ltd at Brooklyn. Can the. Minister inform the Senate of the situation in regard to the payment of unemployment benefit for those employees involved in the dispute? 
I present the following petition from 59 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely- o Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments.  Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension.  Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without.  Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) That, in the opinion of the Senate- 
Senators should no longer hold office as Ministers of State, with the exception of any senator holding the office of Leader of the Government in the Senate, who, in order adequately to represent Government priorities to the Senate, should remain a member of the Cabinet; and 
Chairmen of the Senate's Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees should be granted allowances, staffs and other entitlements similar to those currently granted to Ministers other than Ministers in the Cabinet. 
2 ) That copies of this resolution be forwarded to- 
The  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal, and 
The Prime Minister, with a request that he initiate action to give effect to the proposals, including any necessary amendments to departmental estimates. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacities as Minister for Social Security and Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the Minister's Department have to pay out very large sums in pensions to people suffering from the effects of cigarette smoking? Has the Minister seen allegations of misleading propaganda by the cigarette industry about the dangers of smoking? I ask whether the Minister is aware that the cigarette industry is using questions such as: If cigarette smoking is dangerous why is cancer of the larynx much less common than lung cancer? Does this question conceal that cancer of the larynx is seven times more common among smokers than among nonsmokers? Is the cigarette industry trying to divert attention from the fact that the statistical connection between smoking and cancer, respiratory diseases and heart diseases is proved beyond reasonable doubt? Finally, does the Minister agree that, though legally cigarette purveyors are completely in the clear, socially they are more dangerous than marihuana pushers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
Will the Minister include in the valuable monthly statistics on Australian Defence force employment, the total number of public servants employed in the Defence Department, prepared on the same basis as those for the Defence force, but in the following categories: (a) the numbers and classifications of public servants; (b) numbers of other workers; (c) the location of such people; for example, defence, central, army bases, and naval dockyards; and (d) their broad duties; for example, personnel administration, defence science and technology, finance, procurement and quality assurance, strategic assessment, force development, professional and technical officers, and tradespeople. 
Has the Minister, representing the Minister for Health seen an estimate in the  Australian Journal of Alcoholism and Drug Dependence  that the cost to the community of the victims of cigarette addiction was $625m a year in 1975-76? Would these costs be much higher now? In view of these very high costs to the community of cigarette addiction, would the Minister suggest to her colleagues a levy on the profits of cigarette purveyors to pay for antismoking television advertisements at prime viewing time for young people? Does American experience show that these types of advertisements were so effective that the American tobacco industry voluntarily ceased their own television advertisements in order to stop the showing of these educational anti-smoking advertisements? 
I present the following petition from 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
2 ) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-The Australian Labor Party is an extraordinary organisation, like a mythical bird that always flies along looking backwards. In economic matters it looks back, not so much to the Great Depression of the 1 930s as to the depression of the 1 890s. In health matters it still yearns after Medibank, regardless of the explosion of health costs that has been caused by that scheme. Like the Bourbons it has forgotten nothing and learnt nothing. Our new health insurance scheme retains the good features of Medibank, principally universal cover, and builds a structure which avoids some of the gross defects of Medibank. Like  Senator Grimes  I hope thai this will be the end of the major changes to the health insurance system because all the controversy over various insurance alternatives has diverted attention from far more important problem areas of health care. 
The Labor Party has much to answer for in the way it took up a scheme that had been half worked out by two non-medical doctors, which subsequently became Medibank, and managed to convince the Australian people that this was the solution to all our health care problems. Everyone now realises that it was nothing of the kind. Certainly there were some problems with the health insurance scheme in the late 1960s, the lack of universal cover being the principal one. This could easily have been overcome by relatively minor adjustments to the health scheme without the enormous disruption and spiralling health costs which were caused by the Labor Medibank scheme. Worse still, the decade of argument about the merits or otherwise of Medibank has distracted attention from vastly more important problems areas in health care. 
Before I turn to these problem areas, perhaps I should mention the worries that I have about the scheme that is now being introduced. The first worry concerns the nature of insurance. The idea of insurance is the spreading of risks. I am concerned that fit people, particularly fit young people, who are prepared to accept standard ward accommodation if they need hospitalisation will not take out insurance. This will mean that those people taking out insurance will tend to be those at health risk, which is a bad basis for a health insurance scheme. Inevitably it will mean that insurance premiums will be undesirably high. Whether this will happen, no one can yet say; but it is a danger. The second worry concerns the low income families who can afford neither to pay the insurance premiums nor to pay their 60 per cent share of the cost of treatment; the Government of course pays 40 per cent. Admittedly they are covered for standard ward care in public hospitals and their contributions are limited to $20 for any procedure, but even this can be a severe burden and a strong deterrent to seeking medical assistance when it should be sought. 
I have never been a believer in the effectiveness or desirability of the deterrent gap- the amount paid by the patients ostensibly to deter over-use of the services. I have seen no evidence- statistical evidence, that is- that the presence or absence of a deterrent fee makes any significant difference to the usage of services, the overwhelming proportion of which are doctor initiated rather than patient initiated anyway. Perhaps it may save a few unnecessary consultations for low income families. It is equally likely, perhaps more likely, to deter such families from seeking medical assistance when they really should do so, which may involve the community in much greater costs in the long run. The solution that is proposed under the new scheme is to give the doctor the discretion to decide whether patients are financially disadvantaged. If he decides that they are disadvantaged, he can accept 75 per cent of the standard fee. for which he bulk bills the Government; the patient pays nothing. 
I can see two problems here. It puts the doctor in the position of deciding who does or does not get free treatment. Although this has problems, most people would probably prefer this method to having a public servant decide. What happens if all local doctors, for doctrinaire reasons, refuse to bulk bill? Where does the poor patient go then- the outpatients' department of a public hospital? Outpatients' departments are frequently very inconvenient for patients, with intolerably long waits for parents with large families. Moreover, they are a very expensive way of providing primary health care. The success or failure of this new health insurance scheme therefore depends on the co-operation of the medical profession. I hope it will co-operate fully because it is a good scheme and it is in the profession 's interests and the interests of the community that it should work. 
Although I have argued that the insurance scheme is far from being the most significant problem area in health care, it affects the other areas. It is therefore worth examining the general problems of our health care to see whether this new health scheme does anything to solve them. Perhaps it is the ANZAC tradition of reckless bravery and somewhat casual discipline, but we Australians seem to make two very dangerous and contradictory assumptions about our health. The first assumption is that we will keep our good health no matter what, and the second is that even if we lose it we can always buy it back. But can we? In the early 1960s our health care cost about $700m a year; today the cost has gone sky high, with more than $6,000m, over 7 per cent of the gross domestic product, being spent on health care in 1976-77. We must make a concerted effort to bring these costs under control. Australia's expenditure on health used to be roughly mid-way between the high expenditure in the United States of America and the relatively low expenditure in Britain. Since the 1 960s we have moved much closer to the Americans. 
But for all this extra expenditure there has not been any real improvement in overall health standards. We have reached the point of diminishing returns in health expenditure. Part of the problem is that we have almost no reliable guidance on the costs and benefits of different patterns of usage and care. We need immediate action to provide information on a national basis that will allow efficient planning and development of our health care resources. The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 that is before us provides the power. What we must now do is to use this power. Another part of the problem of deciding what we should do is our lack of a clear concept of what a health care system should do and how it should operate. We are deceiving ourselves when we think of Australia as a sun-bronzed coastal culture where lifestyle, sand and surf take care of most health problems. The reality is very different. 
More and more frequently serious ill health is not disease related but lifestyle related. We are eating, drinking and driving ourselves at an ever greater rate into the care of a health system which was developed to meet 19th century patterns of disease related breakdowns. We should give some serious thought to redesigning our health care delivery system so that it can influence our lifestyle and reduce the risks that go with it. For instance, the annual health cost of our smoking habits was estimated at $625m two years ago; it would be much more now. Can we afford to accept this fact tamely any longer? We are spending too little of our resources on prevention. Over half of our health resources are spent on people who die in the following 12 months. Another attitude that directly contributes to the high cost of health care is the belief that the best health care is always the most intensive. After years of watching the appalling television doctor programs, we have fallen for the lure of highly technological, highly intensive and very expensive medical care. Most of us, who go to our GP come away feeling short-changed if a prescription is not ordered. Although drugs account for only about 8 per cent of total health care expenditure, there would still be a considerable immediate saving if doctors' prescribing habits were moderated and better directed. At the moment there is no incentive to prescribe economically. It does not cost the doctor anything, and he knows that the patient pays the same whether it is a cheap or an expensive drug. 
The size of our pharmaceutical bill should be no surprise. 
For more serious illness we expect and we are getting batteries of computer-assisted tests. The cost of these tests can be very high. In one clinic, for instance, the cost per detected case of breast cancer is $5,000. Some tests for the causes of high blood pressure are costing in the vicinity of $20,000 per detected case. Whilst I do not want to put a cash limit on the value of detection, which may of course save the costs of prolonged hospitalisation, these figures are a warning of the costs that may be involved in testing. It is a cost warning that must be heeded when we remember that between 1962 and 1976, the number of doctor-initiated diagnostic services increased by 300 per cent, compared with an average increase in all services of 48 per cent and the relatively insignificant rise in patient-initiated GP services of only 20 per cent 
A similar pattern appears in the field of elective surgery. In just one example, the rate of tonsillectomy varies five-fold between different areas in New South Wales, a state where each year 25,000 tonsillectomies are performed. This astonishing variation cannot be attributed to differences in the incidence of illness. Some, if not most, must be attributed to different criteria used by doctors when ordering surgery for an operation desirability of which is doubtful anyway. The present structure of rewards to doctors on the fee-for-service system must take some of the blame, for it positively encourages surgery rather than more conservative treatment. 
What are we offered as measures to control costs in the health industry? One that has gained popularity recently is the user pays thesis. This claims that if the user has greater out-of-pocket expense, his cost-consciousness will be heightened. This is expected to influence the doctor as well. Knowing that the patient will have to bear some proportion of health costs, the doctor will be more cautious in what he orders. I do not think that this is a very hopeful approach. For a start, health funds can now offer gap insurance, which wipes out the user pays theory in one go. In any case, there is every reason to believe that the more expensive health care becomes, the more anxious a patient is to get tangible services- drug prescriptions and so on- in return for his money. 
Another suggestion is based on the belief that doctors ' incomes are too high, and that we could solve our health costs problems by cutting them back. There are many things wrong with this approach, quite apart from the fact that we probably have not the constitutional power to do anything effective about it anyway. For one thing, private doctors' incomes represent only 18 per cent of our total health costs. For another, they are not really too high when one considers their practice expenses, their length of training, the hours they work, and the fact that they do not have superannuation and other benefits that most people accept as a right. 
An average GP not performing hospital operations would earn around $35,000 a year after he has paid his practice expenses. I do not think that is excessive for what is on the whole not very pleasant work. There are of course some areas of blatant overpayment- pathologists, radiologists and possibly surgeons being the most obvious ones. I would like to see the Australian Medical Association more active and more prompt in changing its recommended fees to take account of abuses, the effects of changing technology and the changing pattern of health care needs. It is highly desirable that every profession, including the medical profession, should be self-regulating. This is greatly to be preferred to governments getting in on the act, but self-regulation implies that the profession will be promptly responsive to community needs and will not be unduly pushed around by internal pressure groups. I am not convinced that the medical profession meets these requirements at the moment. 
But if the user pays theories, or the control of doctors' incomes, are not likely to be fruitful, what can we do? First of all we must do some hard and clear thinking. One particular misconception that must be dispelled- a misconception strongly held by some of the more militant doctors' unions- is that the health industry operates in a free-market situation and will respond favourably to free-market pressures. One extra ordinary feature of the health industry is its reversal of the traditional relationship between supply and demand. In a free market, increased demand leads to higher prices which are stabilised when supply increases to meet the demands- then prices fall. 
The health industry does not work at all like this. Higher prices may in fact lead to higher demand as consumers seek value for money in the purchase of a product that they view not as a luxury but as a basic necessity. The reversal of the supply and demand relationship is perhaps most clearly demonstrated by the effect of oversupply of hospital beds. In a free market, costs would fall, but in our health care market, demand, in the form of increased elective surgery, instead rises to meet supply. 
A second factor that destroys the free market assumption is the unique role of the doctor in the medical market place. Doctors have a dual role- as entrepreneurs selling an expensive product on a fee-for-service basis, and as agents for the welfare and interests of the consumers of this product. This creates serious dangers of conflicts of interests, particularly as the nature of the medical profession is changing. For the past 30 years we have been selecting medical students, not on their compassion or desire to serve the community, but solely on the marks obtained by students at the Higher School Certificate examinations. Too many- not by any means all, but too many- choose a medical career not from any true motivation but from the desire to convert a good HSC pass into the most prestigious and lucrative career. To their credit, some medical schools are now broadening their entry requirements, but it will be a long time before this has any impact on the composition of the profession. 
In the meantime, the changed nature of the medical profession is becoming increasingly obvious, to the dismay of many of the most senior and respected members of the profession. But it should make us re-examine our attitudes to some of the conflicts of interest that have been accepted in the past. Is it any longer acceptable that a doctor may make a decision to put a patient in hospital, thus involving the spending of a considerable amount of community money, when that doctor, in his other capacity as an entrepreneur owning a hospital, stands to make a profit from having the hospital beds occupied? The same applies to doctors who own nursing homes. I think that the medical profession has to re-examine very carefully whether it is ethically possible for doctors to be entrepreneurs in these fields, as well as whether it is appropriate for doctors to control health insurance funds, for these funds should be checks and balances on the activities of the medical profession. If the profession cannot or will not undertake these ethical re-examinations the Government will have to do it for them. But I hope that it will not have to. 
While on the subject of hospitals, it must be made clear that this is where the vast bulk of our health care expenditure- something like twothirds goes. It is here that we must look for savings and restraints. It can be done by better management and more specialisation. It need not be at the expense of the quality of health care. A recent study of a 900-bed hospital with an 80 per cent occupancy rate, resulted in the reduction of the average length of stay from 13.7 to 11.1 days merely through simple administrative changes which eliminated wasted bed days. This represented a considerable cost saving to the community and also deceased the risk to the patients, some 20 per cent of whom suffer complications purely because of their hospitalisation. 
The problem always comes back, ultimately, to the medical profession. Members of the medical profession decide who goes to hospital, what is done to the patient there and when the patient is released. This brings us to the point that one way of controlling the costs of health care is to limit the number of doctors. Each additional doctor adds about $250,000 a year to the national health care bill. It is important to realise that because health care is not a free-market, this increased cost per doctor will continue even if we have a surplus of doctors. But have we such a surplus, or are we likely to have one? We certainly have never seemed to have had a surplus in the past. 
Australia at the moment has about 21,000 doctors, 1,000 more than the level recommended in the 1973 report of the Committee on Medical Schools. But our growth expectations have changed since then. By 1 990 the population will be more than a million short of" the estimates used in that report, and the number of doctorsaround 34,000- could be as much as 4,000 above reasonable requirements. By 1990 this over-supply of doctors may well be costing the community more than $ 1,000m a year at present prices for a contribution to the quality of our health care that can best be described as doubtful. 
But how then do we get the impression of a current shortage of doctors? The problem is that doctors are very badly distributed, clustering in affluent areas which are pleasant to live in- and over-treating these areas- and relatively neglecting the less attractive working-class suburbs and country areas. Worse still, the distribution between general practitioners- the doctors of first contact- and specialists is out of balance. Both these problems are within the power of the profession to regulate, if it had the will. After all, the legal profession, in creating a Queen's Counsel, considers not only the desire of the individual but also the balance of the profession. Surely the medical profession could do likewise. I think it should seriously tackle these problems of the distribution and balance of its members. If it does not, governments will have to, which would be regrettable, to put it mildly. 
How good is our standard of health care? International comparisons are extraordinarily difficult, but if there were international health competitions- from which heaven protect us- I think we would find that, as in the Olympic Games, we would have sunk back from being one of the leaders in the 1950s to being one of the also rans among developed countries now. Our absolute standards would have risen slightly, but relatively we would have been overtaken by other countries using more sophisticated approaches. 
What are the deficiencies of our health care organisations? Firstly, we are badly biased towards breakdown treatment rather than preventive maintenance. Our lifestyle causes a lot of medical problems. Drug taking is serious- and alcohol and tobacco are far graver dangers in this respect than either heroin or marijuana. The car is a health menace, particularly to the young. We also eat too much and take too little exercise. It is extraordinary that a country which is prepared to spend $6,000m on health care is not prepared to spend one-hundredth as much on encouraging people to take exercise after they leave school. Secondly, our basic medical philosophy is defective. The existence of psychosomatic illnesses and cures- mind made diseases- is admitted, yet we nearly always persist in treating symptoms as if they were solely disease or injury related. The deficiencies of our health philosophy are causing many intelligent people to turn to the alternative medical field for help. 
Turning to more specific faults in our health care- I emphasise that no system could possibly be perfect- I list the following shortcomings: We are giving far too much attention to cure rather than prevention. The fee-for-service approach encourages this. The system also encourages surgery rather than more conservative treatment. There is no incentive to the economical use of hospitals and nursing homes. In fact, the involvement of doctors as entrepreneurs may be a positive incentive to their use. There is no incentive to the economical prescription of drugs, and few disincentives to the prescription of very expensive drugs. There is little incentive to the use of diagnostic skills by GPs, instead of ordering expensive batteries of hospital tests. And finally, by world standards an extraordinarily high proportion of operations is carried out by GPs without special surgical qualifications. 
Although, as I said, one could draw up a list of defects for any health care system, these seem to me to be formidable defects which cannot be ignored. Will the new health insurance scheme make any difference? The answer is, surely, very little if any. What then can we do to tackle these pressing problems? I said earlier that we urgently need information on the costs and benefits of various approaches to health care. We can no longer rely on myths and legends and seat of the pants judgments, some of which obviously have become out of touch with the real world. 
There are, however, two rays of light on the horizon. The medical profession is at last moving on peer review. I think the AMA should be congratulated on its recent decision to support the progressive introduction of evaluations which include both quality assurance and cost benefit analysis. It will only cover care given in hospitals, but at least some progress is being made. It has taken long enough. But this type of peer review will not really provide what we need- positive incentives to doctors for the economical use of health care resources. Here the Health Insurance Act is mildly helpful. It enables the Minister to approve the establishment of health maintenance organisations- often called prepaid health plans- on the lines of the wellknown Kaiser Permanante scheme in America. 
They work like this: A group of health professionals, including GPs, some specialists, nursing and administration staff, and perhaps social workers, contract to provide an agreed variety of medical services to contributors who pay an annual fee, fixed in advance as in one of the current health funds, though the fee would normally be lower than in these funds. The costs of providing the services, including the salaries of the health workers, would come out of the fees. The profits could be shared between the health workers, and the contributors as a rebate on their fees. I think that if the schemes are to work effectively in Australia, which has a different health care structure to America, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will have to be bolder than he has yet shown signs of being. If we wish to give incentives to economy in the use of drugs and hospitalisation- as we surely should- the Minister should provide that health maintenance organisations should receive, for each contributor the average amount spent per head of the community by the Government on drugs and private hospital care. The health maintenance organisation would then pay the full cost for these services and would have strong incentives to use them economically. 
The advantages would be numerous. The health maintenance organisation doctors would have positive incentives not to order unnecessary tests, not to perform unnecessary operations, not to prescribe unnecessary or unduly expensive drugs, not to order unnecessary or unduly prolonged hospitalisation- although of course they would have to provide efficient and adequate services otherwise they would lose their patients. Obviously such a scheme could not be the only scheme. People would have to have the right to opt out to the fee-for-service system if they were dissatisfied with their treatment by the health maintenance organisation. But I believe that such organisations would work very well in our major centres and would provide a useful alternative to the fee-for-service system, as well as providing a valuable insight into the possibility of more economical health care. 
We must do something to restrain these growing costs. The ancient Chinese, I am told, had a system whereby they paid their doctor when they were well, and stopped paying him when they were sick. If they died and were powerful enough the doctor was executed. As so often occurs, the Chinese went to the heart of the problem, although their method of encouraging preventive care might not have universal acceptance here. But we must face up to these problems of the economics of health care. Now that we have, I hope, at last got the long, distracting and wasteful argument over health insurance behind us, we can do just that. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. It deals with the use of distinctively Australian cars by Australian ambassadors whenever possible. Is it a fact that Australia is one of the handful of countries with an indigenous motor car industry? Would it not be good for Australia's image for our representatives to use Australian cars rather than swishing round in foreign cars? Is not a Statesman Caprice an adequate vehicle for any ambassador? Is the Minister aware that the Australian Ambassador to Dublin drives a German built Mercedes while the American Ambassador to Dublin drives an Australian built Statesman? Why has the Department of Administrative Services recently supplied a Swedish Volvo to our representative in Jamaica, a country that has imported nearly 1,000 Holdens in the last 10 years and where there is a solid maintenance organisation for Holdens? 
I should like to comment on Australia 's defence situation and in particular on the statement made recently in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  After all, defence is one of the major items of government expenditure involving more than $2 billion this year, which represents about 2.16 per cent of the gross domestic product. But is this enough? And are we getting value for money? These are questions we must ask and questions on which we must satisfy ourselves. Before we can consider expenditure we must decide what we are trying to do. Since the Second World War we have pursued five different strategic policies. In the early 1 950s we were preparing- urged by Winston Churchill, who felt that war was imminent- for a nonnuclear war as one of an alliance against Russia. Our main contribution then was to be two divisions to the Middle East- almost a replay of early World War II. Accordingly, equipment was ordered on a large scale. When the development of nuclear weapons rendered this strategy no longer credible our strategy shifted to the possibility of a limited non-nuclear war with China as part of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation alliance. Then, in the early 1 960s it changed to a limited war in the archipelago to our north, possibly without allies. By the mid-1960s this had shifted to counter insurgency operations on the mainland of Asia in co-operation with major allies, particularly the Americans. 
Finally, in the early 1970s, we again changed to the defence of continental Australia. This is where we are now, although not in the rather fatuous version adopted by the Whitlam Labor Government. The Minister for Defence in that Government advanced the proposition that our strategic frontier was our coastline- a strategic doctrine the like of which has not been heard since the death of King Ethelred 'the Unready'. The present Government understands the importance of defence in depth and the way in which the control of our northern approaches is vital to our strategic security. The trouble with rapid changes in strategic policy is that different strategic policies require different force structures and different equipment. The equipment ordered for one policy has tended to arrive one or even two strategic policies later. I am sure that everyone could point to numerous examples of this. 
We were fairly well prepared for the Second World War but there was very little support for those preparations from the Labor Party. What we ought to look at now is more strategic stability. Every country's strategy must be determined largley by its geography. This is certainly the case with Australia. The needs of our geography and the pattern of our trade dictate that we must pursue a maritime strategy. We must not fall for the trap of being invited to nominate particular enemies who will attack us in particular ways on particular days. This is a common tactic of the Treasurer to imply that once an enemy is identified the necessary funds will be provided to meet the threat. The trouble is that by the time the threat is evident and accepted by the Government and the voters it is probably too late to prepare adequately. The ten year no threat rule is dangerous nonsense. In this uncertain world it is impossible to look that far ahead. I refer to an old example. In 1792 William Pitt said - 
No, you are thinking of the wrong British Prime Minister. The Corn Laws did not concern Pitt. You are thinking of Peel. In 1972 Pitt said: 
Unquestionably there never was a time in the history of this country when ... we might more reasonably expect 15 years of peace, than we may at this present moment. 
He said that in 1 792. Within one year Britain was involved in a war which lasted with brief intermissions for 22 years. If honourable senators would like an example closer to home, who in this country in 1931 when we were in the depth of the Depression would have thought that in 10 years we would be at war with Germany, Italy and Japan? What then can we do? I believe that we must look at our geographic setting and design our forces to do the things we might have to do on our own. Such a concept would immediately limit the threat in terms of both scale and sophistication. There are scales of attack which would be beyond us if we were totally unsupported which I do not believe for one moment we would be. Let us not waste our scarce resources on preparing to deal with such threats. As I said, let us concentrate on things that we might have to do on our own. Forces designed for such tasks might not be ideal if a wider, more sophisticated war broke out but at least they would be a useful contribution. If we continue as we are going we will have tiny token samples of each type of sophisticated equipment, too few to have much impact on a wider war and too few and oversophisticated for the tasks we might have to do on our own. 
This concept would have enormous effects on our force structure. I will give a few examples. For many years a major role of the Navy has been the defence of merchant shipping against submarine attack. But whose ships would these be? Overwhelmingly our trade is carried in foreign bottoms. In a war in which their countries were not involved there is no way in which such ships would come here to be convoyed by our Navy. They would either come here unescorted as neutrals or, more likely, not come here at all. If they were attacked the war would soon become a much wider one, far beyond our capability to deal with on our own. We should concentrate on doing the things within our power, not frittering our efforts on making token contributions to things beyond our power. What then should the Navy do? I believe that it should be primarily a deterrent force. Submarines are the most effective deterrent to any possible future invasion. I draw the attention of the Senate to a fact that we must consider soon, namely, that any future submarines we order will have to be nuclear powered. There are no diesel electric powered submarines of a modern type available in the world today. If we want to get a new type of submarine it will have to be nuclear powered. The Navy must also be capable of supporting military operations in the archipelago to our northamphibious landings, interdiction of coastal traffic and air and ship bombardment being the obvious operations. By definition the environment would not be a technologically sophisticated one. The Navy must also be capable of controlling the waters we claim around our continent. 
The Army's main role surely should be the provision of a mobile, quick reaction force able if necessary to operate in the archipelago to our north. I want to refer now to suggestions about Army operations on a large scale in northern Australia. I think that there we get involved in a circular argument. There is no way in which we could maintain, say, a division in northern Australia except with supply by sea. If we are to supply it by sea that means that we have command of the sea. If we have command of the sea the requirement for such a large force does not arise. We have to be very careful that we do not get involved in a circular argument. 1 believe that the role of the Army is to be sufficiently mobile and quick reacting to cause any potential invading force to concentrate in such a way that it would be destroyed by our maritime forces. This was the role of the British Army prior to 1914 and it is a proper and effective role for our Army now. A battalion in position before a landing is very much more valuable than a division arriving there three weeks later. We need a small, highly mobile and efficient Army. 
The role of the Air Force should be complementary to these. I do not believe that for the things we have to do on our own we need a strategic bombing capability or air superiority fighters. By the time these were being used it would be a much larger scale war. What we do need from our Air Force is transport, surveillance and Army tactical support in much greater quantities than we have at the moment. In my opinion we do not need frigates costing $130m each. These are in fact highly sophisticated antisubmarine escorts. We want many much less sophisticated destroyers for much more limited purposes. By the same token we would be mad to spend $ 1,000m on air superiority fighters. If we are to control our force composition, we must have a clear concept of the sort of operations we might have to do on our own. I am not satisfied that such a clear concept is available to defence planners. It must be produced and the Government must enforce this concept. It will not be easy but risks must be run in peace as in war. If we do not enforce this type of discipline we will inevitably finish up with tiny handfuls of the most sophisticated types of equipment in each category. 
In this respect I think that there are dangers in one of the concepts which is gaining currency. 1 refer to the core force. This is a phrase one often hears bandied about in defence planning circles. The core force, as I see it, is the regular force which must be prepared to deal with immediate low level threat. It must also be capable of expansion to meet a higher level threat. As I said, there is a great danger that this core force will be equipped with a tiny number of highly sophisticated weapons which will be too elaborate, too expensive and too few for the task which the core force will have to do on its own and which will also be an unsuitable basis for the mass expansion that will be required to build up the main force. I am also suspicious of the concept of the core force being used as the method of maintaining what is called the state of the art. 
I said 'core force'. It has been argued that this is a method of maintaining the state of the art in our Defence Force. Certainly, the acquisition of very advanced equipment is one way of our forces keeping up with the state of the art. But it can be an extraordinarily expensive way. Let me give one example of an alternative. Great Britain designed the tank. Between the two World Wars it maintained a small core tank defence force. The Germans were forbidden by the treaty of Versailles to have tanks. However, the Germans experimented with models. They thought about tanks and carried out some trials in Russia. Germany was permitted to rearm in 1934 and by 1939 it had a far more efficient concept of the operation of tanks and had better tanks than the British who maintained a core force throughout that time. It is true that one way to keep up with the state of the art is to have a core force. But is it sensible to spend $100m to keep a tiny token force of tanks at Puckapunyal? I would much sooner save that money and send a relatively small number of officers and commanders on secondment to the British army or the American army to keep up with the technique of tank operations. We must look very carefully at any claims that a core force is a means of keeping up with the state of the art. It can be but it also can be wildly extravagant. 
I would like to explain to the Senate how dangers arise. The Services start off with a simple piece of equipment but almost always finish up with an enormously expensive and elaborate piece of equipment. I would like to tell the Senate the saga of the light destroyer, the DDL, which was cancelled when its cost reached $ 100m. This destroyer had its origin in 1965 when the then Chief of the Naval Staff was concerned that the naval construction program was reaching an end. He also was concerned that ships were being used very uneconomically in Vietnam and in the confrontation between Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. I was there myself on a destroyer. I do not know of any other words with which to describe the position than these: With 300 men, six 4.5 inch automatic guns and bofors one felt like a bully when bailing up a fishing boat with a Malayan family on board. We had to check whether they were infiltrating. This was absurdly uneconomic in terms of the the use of- 
It was unreal in that sense. It had to be done but it was not an economic way of doing it. The Chief of the Naval Staff conceived the idea of getting a cheaper platform just for this role of interdiction and, if necessary, bombardment. By chance, the representatives of an English firm, Vosper Thornycroft, visited Australia at that time with a design for a destroyer that the company was providing to the Persians. It had one 4.5-inch gun, a couple of gas turbine engines and was capable of 40 knots. The Chief of the Naval Staff said: 'A 1,200-tonne ship is just what I want'. He referred the matter to the naval staff for examination. As staffs always do, this staff made a number of objections. One was that the equipment was not shock mounted and there were no proper damage control facilities. So he said, quite properly: 'Take the concept and prepare a design to meet these requirements'. So a ship was produced just for this limited role of bombardment and interdicting small craft. It was a small craft of 1,500 tonnes with one five-inch gun, two gas turbines, a good range and a speed of 36 knots. 
It had no torpedo tubes. It had just one gun and not much else. When this design was submitted to the fleet, the fleet commander made the valid objection that for the role they were considering, the interdiction of inshore traffic, a helicopter was necessary. In order to put a six tonne helicopter into the ship, its displacement had to be increased by 700 tonnes. The ship had to be lengethened to reduce its pitching and broadened to stop its rolling. The helicopter deck had to be raised because helicopters do not like salt water. We finished up with a good ship of 2,300 tonnes with a five-inch gun, a helicopter and with a speed down to about 34 knots. 
The complement was about 120 personnel at this stage. I must say that it finished up much higher. What happened next was that members of the naval staff who had been serving in Vietnam on our American built 
DDG ships and who had been using five-inch guns said: 'For the role you want the ships to play, if you want one gun to fire you had better have two guns on board '. They had had certain serviceability problems with their five-inch guns. I would have thought that a better approach would have been to improve the serviceability of the gun. In fact, they put in a second gun. This put the tonnage of the ship up to about 3,000 tonnes and reduced the speed to about 32 knots. I would like to emphasise that none of this was improper. This was perfectly natural staff work. I am only trying to describe the consequences. 
Simultaneously, a study was being done of the employment of helicopters in this interdiction role. The study pointed out that for the role intended one helicopter was inadequate and that two helicopters were needed. So a second helicopter was put on the vessel. The tonnage increased to 3,400 tonnes and the speed came down to about 31 knots. Then someone said: You have quite a big ship here- about 3,000 tonnes to 3,500 tonnes. It has two five-inch guns and two helicopters. Do you realise that it has no anti-aircraft defences?'. So out went the aft fiveinch gun and in went a missile system. Up went the tonnage of the vessel to about 4,000 tonnes and down came the speed to about 30 knots. At this point, we had a ship with a five-inch gun, a missile system with all associated radars and two helicopters. It had a good range and gas turbine propulsion. Then it was said: 'Yes, but for the role you are looking at, this is a valuable unit. You must have jammers, decoy launchers for the missiles and intercept sets'. All these facilities were put on to the ship. Up went the tonnage to 4,300 tonnes and up went the cost to $100m a ship. At that point the orders for the ships were cancelled. It was said that a ship of 4,300 tonnes was a major fleet unit. It could not possibly be used for the role envisaged, that is, bombardment and in-shore interdiction. I mention this because it is a classic case of the way in which always- not usually- these initially simple projects end up. Unless they are controlled ruthlessly, they always finish up as the most elaborate, complicated and expensive pieces of equipment we could possibly envisage. This a cautionary tale. I am not trying to blame anybody. Every step taken was logical and rational but the result was catastrophic. 
I would now like to turn to a somewhat sensitive subject. I have been speaking about an insensitive one so far. I refer to the role of the Department of Defence. I say that it is a sensitive subject because I have a great admiration for the 
Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and what he is trying to do. But I must say that- 
He is a Queenslander. That is one of his virtues. He has others. But the Defence Department is widely regarded by the Defence Force as being a disaster area. The Defence Force is always critical of defence headquarters. There is a story that illustrates the point. A man in Whitehall in London during the Second World War was looking for the Admiralty Office. He could not find it. He saw a sailor and thought that the sailor would know where the Admiralty was. He went up to the sailor and said: 'Excuse me, Jack; what side is the Admiralty on?'. The sailor said: 'I have never thought. They are supposed to be on ours'. That is the sort of feeling we always have. That is a lighthearted story. Nevertheless, there is a very deep-seated feeling- it concerns me- that the Defence Department, as at present structured, is not really responsive to the needs and problems of the Defence Force. This worries me because- 
I would like to come to that in a moment because I have some thoughts on the matter that I would like to develop in sequence. These remarks are in no way a crticism of the Minister. He is concerned and compassionate. But I think that the Defence Department, as at present structured, is beyond the effective political control of anyone. I am sorry that  Senator Bishop,  who was the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, has left the Senate chamber. I am sure he would agree with me that really those in political control do not know and cannot know what is going on throughout the Department. The Secretary of the Department, in evidence given before the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, admitted that the Department was not designed for war. My difficulty is to find what it is designed for. My real worry about the Defence Department is that I get a strong feeling that many people in it do not really believe that the Defence Department controls a Defence Force that might have to fight and that their decisions might affect the lives of the people concerned and even the security of the country. It seems that many of them- this may be unfair but I have this very strong feeling- are more concerned in the status of the Defence Department on the pecking order in Canberra rather than its efficiency as a method of controlling the Defence Force of this country. That is a feeling which I have and which I know is widely shared throughout the Defence Force. 
What is wrong with this Department? I would like to say at the outset, in answer to an earlier interjection, that I am strongly in favour of a single defence department. I think the idea of separate service departments competing with each other was an absurd anachronism. That does not mean to say that I am in favour of any scheme that merges the service departments. What one wants is a scheme that is responsive to the needs of the services. The scheme was produced by direction of a Liberal Minister for Defence and was introduced by a Labor Minister for Defence and has been in force now for some years. It has had a fair trial and in my view it has been convicted. I do not think it is a satisfactory system to run the armed services. In essence the scheme involved a Public Service takeover of the Defence Force. I shall give one simple example. When I was talking earlier about strategic policy and the central nature of our strategic policy to our Defence Force and our defence preparations, I did not make the point then but I would like to make it now that when one looks at who is responsible for strategic policy one goes down through four layers of public servants- Secretary, Deputy Secretary, First Assistant Secretary, Assistant Secretary- before one reaches the first professional service man. In my view the lack of clarity of our strategic planning needs no further explanation. 
There is another very damaging effect of the Defence Department as it is now; it is ludicrously over-ranked. This scheme for the amalgamation of the three separate service departments into the Defence Department was produced by an extraordinary document. That document referred to Public Service appointments as one star appointments, two star appointments, three star appointments and four star appointments, using American military terminology for general ranks. These people are absurdly over-ranked. An enormous debating society with committees everywhere has been set up where these overranked public servants are matched by grossly over-ranked servicemen. I shall give one simple example. In World War II the size of the Navy was 40,000 servicemen. It operated then with three admirals and three commodores. The Navy now has 16,000 members. It has nine admirals and 12 commodores. This is absurd. It is worse than that because not only are the people over-ranked at defence headquarters but also it reflects right through the structure of the service. 
It is desirable that for a man in defence headquarters who is a sailor he should go to sea sometimes; if he is a soldier he should see some other soldiers: and if he is an airman he should fly. This means that the sea jobs, to use the naval equivalent, have to be over- ranked. I will give just two examples. The USS  Enterprise,  a nuclear powered carrier, has more fighters and bombers than our entire Air Force has in Australia. It is commanded by a captain. HMAS  Melbourne  is commanded by a commodore. The United States and Australia have some identical ships, American built guided missile destroyers. The Americans have a senior officer, one commander. We have one captain and four commanders on board. This is most damaging because junior officers can do and learn things a senior officer cannot. We have a grotesquely over-ranked service. 
I shall just turn very quickly to what we should do. Firstly, at the top we need a proper defence council, statutorily established and presided over by the Minister. The various sections of the Defence Department should be responsible to individual members of the defence council who predominantly should be professional servicemen. Secondly, we need a sharp reduction in the number of public servants. I have been unable to obtain the figures for the number of public servants involved but I was not surprised by a statement that was made recently to an estimates committee that 32,000 public servants were employed while the Army consists of 31,000 members. This is quite possible but I cannot confirm those figures. As I suggested, we need a reduction in rank throughout the whole structure of the Defence Department, I also think the chiefs of staff of the Navy, Army and Air Force and the chief of the Defence Force staff are misnamed. Their role is not that of chief of staff of anything; they are or are supposed to be the commanders of their respective services and that is what they should be named. It would describe them more accurately and would give them more status. 
We need to sort out the command structure of the three Services. Each Service operates under a different command structure which is highly undesirable. Both efficiencies and economies should be achieved by having the three Services under a common functional structure. Finally, we need better political control of the Defence Department. We used to have five Ministers dealing with this scope of activities. Now we have one Minister and one part-time assistant Minister. I think that somehow- perhaps by the use of parliamentary secretaries- we have to increase the scope of political control because our activities in defence may be of crucial importance to the future of this country. Defence is the first duty of a government and I would like to see us performing it with more efficiency. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the British Government has negotiated a treaty with the Polish People's Republic for compensation for the nationalisation and expropriation of the property of former Polish citizens who are now British nationals? Have the United States of America and Canada negotiated similar treaties? Is Australia negotiating such a treaty? If so, has any progress been made? If not, why not? 
In reply to what  Senator Georges  has just said, of course it is necessary that all honourable senators who wish to speak should make their position clear. A large number of senators wish to speak in this debate and it is important that we should express our views as succinctly as possible. The motion we are considering raises three separate issues. The first is abortion, which traditionally in this Parliament is a conscience issue and not one on which governments as such have policies. The second is the right of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly effectively to make decisions on such issues. The third issue- one for Government senators- is the problem of whether they are to vote to overturn a decision made by the Government. I think I can quickly dispose of the abortion argument, as such. Nothing said in the present debate will have any effect whatever on the abortion law in the Australian Capital Territory. This law is not at issue in this debate. It is common ground among members of the Government, the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and, as far as I can judge, the overwhelming majority of this chamber that private free-standing abortion clinics should not be permitted in the Australian Capital Territory. That is certainly my view. 
I said the overall majority,  Senator Baume,  not unanimous. It has been claimed that disallowance of the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance would leave a legal vacuum in which private abortion clinics would nourish. There is no need for this to happen, as  Senator Evans  pointed out at some length. If we disallow this Ordinance, section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act empowers the Senate to pass a motion which would enable the Government to bring forward a new ordinance containing the prohibitions on private abortion clinics without the six-month delay which otherwise would apply. I would be prepared to vote for such a motion, which  Senator Rae  has foreshadowed, provided that the Government made it clear that it would be prepared to bring in a new ordinance covering all the major health conclusions on the abortion issue reached by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, or at the very least not effectively prohibiting them. If it would take some time to draft such an ordinance I would be prepared to accept a temporary ordinance covering private abortion clinics, coupled with an unequivocal undertaking by the Government to bring in a comprehensive ordinance as soon as it could be drafted. 
If there is a legal vacuum as a result of the Senate disallowing the Ordinance it would only be as a result of a deliberate decision by the Government. But I do not believe for a moment that the Government would permit such a vacuum to occur, whatever its supporters now say. If we disallow this Ordinance- which I hope we will, overwhelmingly- then I am sure that the Government will co-operate fully to ensure that the wishes of the Australian Capital Territory on this sensitive social issue are implemented. Those wishes are quite clear; the people of the Australian Capital Territory do not want private abortion clinics. 
So much for the abortion issue. It has been a red herring, although for many it was an honest misunderstanding. The real issue is whether on a subject such as abortion the wishes ofthe locally elected legislature should be paramount. I think that clearly they should be although of course I recognise that at present the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly is only an advisory body. But on issues such as this we should override the Assembly only if its recommendations are clearly outrageous. In this case the recommendations are in fact very conservative. What are the recommendations? There are in fact 5 1 , not 47 as  Senator Evans  said. The Legislative Assembly, when considering its committee's report, put in four additional recommendations. Of the 5 1 recommendations one is legal- the clarification of whether or not the Menhennitt ruling applies to the Australian Capital Territory. That is a separate issue and is not before us in this debate. Five are educational; again they are a separate issue. Of the remainder, there are three main recommendations: Firstly, that private free-standing abortion clinics should not operate in the Australian Capital Territory; secondly, that there should be a clinic, conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission, within the grounds of a public hospital, to perform abortions authorised by law up to 11 weeks of pregnancy; and thirdly, that all women having abortions performed in the Australian Capital Territory after 1 1 weeks and up to 20 weeks of pregnancy should be in-patients in a public hospital. 
I again emphasise that none of these recommendations change the law. They deal merely with the way in which abortions authorised by law- there are such abortions now- should be carried out. The Minister has put the first of the three main recommendations into effect and ignored the other two. I object not to what is in the Ordinance- I agree with it- but to what is left out. I should qualify that statement by pointing out that it should be made clear that the Ordinance applies only to private abortion clinics. As worded at the moment it could be argued that it applies to all abortion clinics, including ones run by the Capital Territory Health Commission. That point was dealt with, again at some length, by  Senator Evans.  To my mind there is nothing objectionable about the proposal to establish a special clinic at a public hospital. At the moment abortions are carried out in the ordinary, general operating theatres. One might have the situation in such an operating theatre where an appendectomy and an operation for a broken leg are followed by an abortion. I hasten to add that they would not necessarily involve the same person. Such a person would be very unlucky. 
The point I am emphasising is that there is this problem of abortions being carried out in the ordinary run of hospital operations. This may cause great administrative difficulties with some of the staff having conscientious objections to participating in abortions. There are obvious advantages in having such operations carried out in a separate theatre from which those with conscientious objections to participating in abortions could be excused. In any case there is no rational reason that the national government should refuse the local legislative body such a reasonable request. It may be that such a clinic is possible under the present Ordinance, but I think that it should be put beyond reasonable doubt. I think I should point out here that I quite accept that there is no way in which the present Government would fund the construction of such a clinic. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made that crystal clear. But that is no reason why it should deny the Australian Capital Territory the right to create such a clinic if it can find the funding. This Government, of all governments, should realise that it is not the only source of funds. If the Australian Capital Territory has the unmistakably clear authority to erect such a clinic and if the Canberra community can raise the necessary funds, it can build the clinic. After all, many of our existing public hospitals were built substantially by public subscriptions. If the Australian Capital Territory wants the clinic it will raise the funds. 
The third problem is that of overturning a government decision. This really turns on the credibility of an undertaking given to Parliament by the Government. The Minister for Health made a crucial statement to the Parliament which has never been disavowed by the Government.  Senator Evans  read part of it. I shall read it again because to my mind it is crucial to this debate. The Minister for Health said: 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so, that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. 
This seems to me to be an entirely proper statement, fully in accordance with social justice and the principles of the party to which I belong. I intend to stand by it even if the Minister has weakened. If the Government has decided not to follow the recommendations of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and feels that it is a matter for the Federal Parliament rather than the local legislature- I do not agree but I can understand the attitude- it should have been debated by this Parliament before a decision was made. The Government's actions on this matter seem to me to be quite indefensible. So I shall vote for the disallowance of the Ordinance. I shall also vote for  Senator Rae's  foreshadowed motion, which permits the Government promptly to bring in a new ordinance which will give effect to the wishes of the Legislative Assembly, including the banning of private abortion clinics. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It relates to the debate in this chamber last Thursday. Does the Government regard the well-known Menhennitt ruling as applicable to the citizens of the Australian 
Capital Territory? If the position in this matter is not clear, does the Government intend taking any action to clarify it? 
I have two petitions that were sent to former  President Sir Magnus  Cormack, and I present them as his successor. 
I present the following petition from 54 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Human Rights in the USSR 
I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
In the Soviet occupied Lithuania, Viktoras Petkus, a member of the group to monitor Soviet compliance with the Helsinki agreement, was sentenced to a severe punishment at the same time as other Soviet dissidents, Shcharansky and Ginzburg. 
Since Viktoras Petkus, and the group he is a member of, conducted their activities openly, believing that the Soviet constitution granted them some rights not only in word but also in fact, this severe punishment is a blatant denial of human rights recognised even by the Soviet constitution. 
We ask the Australian Government to make representations to the United Nations to adopt a resolution condemning Soviet violations of human rights, and to request the Soviet Government to release the unjustly incarcerated Viktoras Petkus. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacities as Minister representing the Minister for Health and Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it a fact that there is a current national surplus of doctors of about 1,000 and that the number is increasing, but that this surplus is masked by their bad distribution? Is the suggestion by a Labor member that these surplus doctors will become unemployed an absurd suggestion? Is it not a fact that what will really happen is that each one of them will generate additional medical services at a rate of about $250,000 a year? Does the present surplus of doctors cost the community about $250m a year without really contributing much to the standard of health care? While the situation is being reviewed, will the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs cease encouraging the immigration of doctors, particularly specialists, who are in gross surplus? 
When I first became a member of this chamber I told honourable senators that my concept of one role of this Senate was that it should be the watchdog on decentralisation to ensure that the executive power of the government was appropriately decentralised. I also expressed the view that the Senate had not adequately performed in this role in the past. The States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill, which is now before the Senate, is a perfect example of what I was talking about and it is one on which I must take a stand. 
Commonwealth funding for roads has a long history. In the 1 920s this funding provided one of the early test cases on the use of section 96 of the Constitution. By the 1950s the Commonwealth was involved in some detailed aspects of expenditures on roads, but this was limited to setting minimum allocations for expenditure on rural roads and imposing a requirement that Commonwealth grants be matched in some degree by allocations from State revenues. I do not think that many people found this objectionable. We are all familiar with the way in which Commonwealth expenditure which is intended to increase the amount available in a particular area is sometimes frustrated by the States reducing their expenditure by a corresponding amount. 
There was, however, a dramatic change in 1969-70. Instead of merely specifying minimum expenditures on rural roads, a table of road classifications was drawn up and Commonwealth expenditures were divided between these categories. In 1974 the Whitlam Labor Government made further serious encroachments on State responsibilities for roads. State Governments were forced to submit their road construction programs to the Federal Minister for Transport for approval- an extraordinarily centralised and, in my view, grossly improper move. I am not alone in my view. I should like to quote from a statement made in this chamber at the time. It reads: 
I repeat that State governments and local governments, as elected representatives, should take the responsibilities for decisions relating to State government and local government road programs. These decisions should not be made by politicians in Canberra. 
Who made that statement? It was no less an authority than the Leader of the Liberal and Country parties in this place. Some amendments were indeed forced by the Senate at that time but they did not go nearly far enough, the then Opposition perhaps being inhibited by what it had done in 1 969. 1 regret to say that the 1 977 Act did not change the situation much, although it did remove some of the detailed special requirements for the State governments to submit their proposed programs for urban arterial roads for approval by the Federal Minister for Transport. Otherwise the 1977 Act is as objectionable as the 1974 Act was, and I think that the Labor shadow Minister for Transport was quite justified in saying in the debate on the 1974 Bill that it 'is, in the main, a development and a refinement of the progressive roads legislation enacted by the Labor Government '. 
For those who have not studied the principal Act of 1977 it may be worth pointing out that road expenditure is divided into eight different categories. They are: The construction of national highways; the maintenance of national highways; the construction of national commerce roads; the construction of rural arterial roads; the construction and maintenance of rural local roads; minor traffic and engineering road safety improvements; the construction of urban arterial roads; and the construction of urban local roads. For each of these eight categories the amount to be allocated by the Federal Government is laid down in detail, and overall matching grants are demanded of the States. 
What has all this detail to do with the Federal Government? Why should we- to coin a phrase- stick our nose into it? It is, in my view, a gross and totally unwarranted intrusion into the proper responsibilities of State governments. There is no political mileage in it for us, anyway. It allows the States to shift the responsibility. 
When there are local complaints about road funding the States can say: 'The Federal Government is to blame. We would love to make the money available, but Canberra will not let us'. The Federal Government and Federal members are in a 'no win' situation. Despite this, the Act is littered with unnecessary controls by Canberra such as: 'The State may propose to the Minister (that is, the Federal Minister for Transport) . . .'; 'the Minister may exclude the program of projects . . .'; 'the Minister may require . . .'; and 'the Minister may direct . . .'.All those provisions are concerned with urban and rural local and arterial roads, which on any sensible definition of cooperative federalism should be an exclusive State responsibility. 
I am not suggesting that the Federal Government has no responsibility for roads. I think it should be responsible- fully responsible- for a first class network of national roads connecting the capital cities. I think there is a sound economic argument that the Federal Government should control the minimum national expenditure on roads, using a combination of section 96 grants and matching State expenditures for this purpose. But that is all. The details ofthe expenditure on roads other than national roads should be left to the States. That is the essence of cooperative federalism. Incidentally, the matching grants demanded at the moment range from the highest in Victoria at $1.25 from the State for each Commonwealth dollar to the lowest in Tasmania at 56c from the State for each Commonwealth dollar. 
What are the objections to the present arrangements, apart from the blatant breach of every principle of co-operative federalism? From the point of view of my own State, Victoria- I am confident that the other States have similar problems- the first criticism is of the arbitrary Commonwealth regulation of the State's road programs by the allocation of Federal funds to a number of specific categories of roads, without reference to Victoria's real road needs or priorities. The distribution of the allocation is neither that desired by the State nor that recommended by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. The second is of the Federal Government's policy of providing Commonwealth funds for roads on a triennium basis. This inhibits the continuity of road planning. The funding should preferably be on a five-year program. At the very least it should be a rolling three-year program. The third is of the effect of the massive and unheralded changes in the direction of Commonwealth funding. 
The fourth criticism is of the Federal Government's disregard of the recommendations ofthe Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in relation to Victoria's needs. I think I should elaborate a little on this. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads recommended a total allocation to Victoria of $ 138.7m a year for the current three-year program, but the actual allocation was only $101m. This is, perhaps, fair enough, in view of the general expenditure restraint. Yet, in the allocation to categories, the Commonwealth allocated $1 1.1m to rural arterial roads against the Bureau's recommended $5. 7m- an increase of 95 per cent. The Bureau's recommended figure for rural local roads was $ 14.6 m; yet the Commonwealth allocated $19m to this category- a 30 per cent lift. However, at the same time, whereas the Bureau recommended that $57.8m was required for urban arterial road construction, the Commonwealth allocated only $22.2m. What happened overall was that the Commonwealth allocated only 38 per cent of the funds recommended for urban arterial roads, while in the same Act it granted funds vastly in excess of the recommendations made by the Bureau for rural arterial and rural local roads. It is this massive imbalance that the State has been called on to correct by allocations from its own funds. 
The fifth criticism by the State of Victoria is of the unnecessary administrative costs and the duplication of administrative effort involved in preparing State-wide road programs for approval by the Federal Government, regardless of the magnitude or cost of the works. 
The final criticism is of the delays in receiving Federal ministerial approval of programs, especially during the last two years. In my view this is a damning list. I repeat that I am not suggesting that the Federal Government has no responsibility for roads. I know that some have argued that this is so, and that the Commonwealth should merely grant the States the amounts now spent by the Commonwealth on roads as increases in the States' general revenue grants, leaving the State governments to decide what they wish to spend on roads, on hospitals, on schools, on houses, or whatever. I think that this goes too far. I think that a national government does have certain responsibilities for roads. 
I suggest these principles: Firstly, the Commonwealth should determine the requirements of national roads and should, through the States, fully fund their construction and maintenance. Secondly, the Commonwealth should determine the minimum acceptable national expenditure on roads other than national roads, and should control such minimum expenditure by making grants under section 96 of the Constitution to the States for such purpose, and by requiring appropriate matching expenditures from the State governments; there being no objection to the State governments, from their own resources, spending amounts on roads in excess of their matching requirements. Thirdly, the Commonwealth should make no attempt to control, supervise or direct the way in which the State governments or local governments spend available funds on roads other than national roads, other than to be satisfied by State Auditors-General that the necessary funds have been properly expended so as to qualify for the appropriate road grants under section 96 of the Constitution. 
The problem is: What do we do about this? The Bill before us covers only the Schedules to the Act, increasing the amounts allocated to the various road categories in order to maintain their real value. The defects are in the parts of the principal Act which are not before us and to which amendments therefore cannot be moved in the present debate. I feel very strongly that the principal Act should be amended before the next routine Bill on this subject comes before this chamber next year. The amendments would be simple: Simply cut out the various Schedules where they lay down the details of expenditure on roads other than national roads, and cut out all references to the Federal Minister inspecting or approving programs for such roads. I give notice now that if these amendments are not made by the time the next annual Bill on the present lines appears before this chamber I shall move a private member's Bill to amend the principal Act to put it into better shape, in accordance with the principles of co-operative federalism. I hope that the Government will take the hint. 
I do not know. 
I agree with  Senator Wriedt  that income tax avoidance by means of artificial schemes is one of the most pressing problems facing us, but the Opposition in its amendment- one might say 'as usual'- has made an imperfect diagnosis and, therefore, chosen an unsuitable cure. In particular, the choice of a revised section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act as its vehicle of reform is to select a broken reed. There is no realistic chance of success in that direction. I agree, as I am sure does the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  with what  Senator Wriedt  has said about the importance of tax avoidance but I do not accept his cure. I would like to make some more constructive suggestions than I have yet heard from the Opposition on what might be done. Some people do not seem to realise the magnitude of the problem. One tax avoidance scheme, such as the Curran scheme, can cost revenue as much in a single year as will be raised by the 1  Vi  per cent tax levy. We are rapidly approaching the notorious position of the French of whom it is often said that they can neither impose nor pay a fair tax. Nobody likes paying taxes but most people are prepared to pay them if they think everyone is paying their fair share. 
It used to be said that only two things were certain in this world- death and taxes. For some people in the community only death seems to be certain, and I am sure that they are working on that too. I think we should look at the principles which should govern our income tax law. Firstly, the income tax law should be equitable and based on ability to pay. I do not think that many people would dispute that. Secondly, the income tax law should be certain and the Act should give effect to the intention of parliament. Thirdly, there should be no loopholes which would encourage the cancerous growth of a tax avoidance industry. Our present situation does not meet the second and third of these principles. It was in order to overcome this problem of tax avoidance through artificial schemes that section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act was put in originally.  Senator Wriedt  mentioned that section and I think that I should read it to the Senate because it is an important section of the Act. It reads in part: 
Every contract, agreement, or arrangement made or entered into, orally or in writing, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, shall, so far as it has or purports to have the purpose or effect of in any way directly or indirectly: 
altering the incidence of any income tax; 
b) relieving any person from liability to pay any income tax or make any return; 
defeating, evading, or avoiding any duty or liability imposed on any person by this Act; or 
) preventing the operation of this Act in any respect, be absolutely void . . . 
Non-lawyers may think that this would give the Commissioner of Taxation adequate power to deal with artificial schemes but, in fact, the High Court has completely emasculated this section, rendering it ineffective. I am advised also that it would be extremely difficult to write a new section on these lines which would not be similarly emasculated. At the very least there would be a considerable area of uncertainty. 
The Treasurer's present approach- I think we owe him a great deal for the determination with which he is tackling this problem; he has done very much more than was done by the Labor Government in its three years of office- is to legislate to deal with cases of blatantly artificial schemes to avoid income tax as they are brought to his notice by the Commissioner. Naturally this will not be until towards the end of the tax year when the new crop of schemes comes in. The trouble with the Treasurer's approach is that it will make the Income Tax Assessment Act progressively even more unwieldy than it is. It also will mean that the smart people will get away with the loot in the first year of their operation and that there will be no incentive to dismantle the very large tax avoidance industry which is absorbing some of our smartest lawyers and accountants. These smart people are being not only non-productive but also counter-productive. Indeed, the industry is likely to grow because what we are doing is like playing bridge and being obliged to put our cards on the table while the other side keeps theirs hidden. The other side, the tax avoidance industry, can nearly always outplay us. 
That may be the problem, but I am going to suggest some ways in which they might. If we are to do more to stop people getting away with the loot in the first year and thus dismantling the tax avoidance industry, the question of retrospectivity is raised. I think that there is a lot of misunderstanding about this. Retrospective criminal laws are obviously obnoxious, but retrospective tax laws are quite another matter. I think that what we should be seeking not to do in any changes to the Income 
Tax Assessment Act is to take away by legislation something to which a taxpayer could reasonably expect to be entitled. When considering these artificial tax avoidance schemes we are not dealing with starry-eyed idealists. We are dealing with some fairly hard-eyed people. Their reasonable expectation is that they should have to pay the tax prescribed by the Act. What they are deliberately and knowingly trying to find is some artificial way of making those reasonable expectations not come true. I do not see any reason why we should assist them in that regard. 
I suggest that the Treasurer should make a general statement that he intends in future, by specific legislation, to do what section 260 of the Act was intended by Parliament to do but which it has been frustrated in doing by the difficulty in framing general legislation which will survive challenge in the courts. That statement by the Treasurer would give adequate notice to those people concerned. The Treasurer should make it quite clear that any artificial scheme which is brought to his notice by the Commissioner of Taxation will be dealt with by specific legislation so that the people involved obtain no benefit from it. In fact, if the Treasurer makes his determination quite clear, he would not have to legislate very often. Once the potential benefits had been removed the tax avoidance industry would quickly collapse and these very smart people would be transferred to productive work. 
This is all right if the scheme is blatantly artificial but most schemes also include the possibility of genuine business intent. It is through this loophole that the High Court of Australia has emasculated section 260 of the Act. I suggest that the Treasurer should consider a simple amendment to section 260 so that if a taxpayer used the services of an agent who collected a percentage of his tax savings or operated on any other nonprofessional basis, this would be prima facie evidence that the scheme was an artificial one. This would drive most of these tax arrangers out of business. It would not solve all our problems, but it would be a great step forward. One of these tax agents was reputed in Melbourne to have had an income last year of $ 14m; I emphasise that that was one year's income. This shows the scale of the evil we have to face. 
How do we deal with new schemes which are not blatantly artificial or sold through promoters, although we know and the taxpayer knows that they are tax avoidance schemes? We cannot go on endlessly patching the existing framework when new schemes emerge. We must inject new broad principles into our tax laws so that one or more of them is capable of trapping any new scheme at birth. Thus we may discourage their spawning. 
We must make it clear that we have an income tax law and not a loss tax law. Section 26(a) of the Act brings into the scope of income tax certain items which might otherwise be classified as being of a capital nature. How is that achieved? It is achieved by making assessibility depend on the taxpayer's intention. Under section 52 ofthe Act, some losses on comparable items may be allowed, once again, if the profit motive is obvious. Why is not this approach spelled out in our tax law? Why can losses created in sleight-of-hand transactions be claimed without the profit motive being tested? For example, in the Curran case, a tax loss was allowed by the High Court although the taxpayer, in fact, made a commercial profit on the deal. 
I contend that the tax law should clearly spell out in several places that its effect depends on a reasonable profit motive. Thus, the definition of trading stock' should apply only to those items acquired with the predominant motive of profit making in the ordinary course of business. Specifically, the calculation of that hoped for profit should be tied to the existence or otherwise of a hoped for taxable profit, ignoring the effect of concessions such as the stock valuation allowance. The definition should state that an item is trading stock for tax purposes only if, having regard to the circumstances of its acquisition, management and disposal, and any other transaction related directly or indirectly, the intention at all times was to make a taxable profit. It would be unnecessary to say that the Commissioner had any discretionary power. Nevertheless, he would have to decide whether to disregard ineligible transactions. That concept could and should be reflected in a definition of the term 'business' from which would be excluded automatically any transaction which was not intended to make a taxable profit. 
Unless specifically exempted, therefore, all business profits of an income nature should be accessible. If a profit is made, income tax laws should tax it and allow any loss. But if the transaction was entered into predominantly for a tax advantage from the claiming of a contrived loss, it should not be considered under a law which taxes income. If this concept were accepted, nearly all our present problems would disappear. Perhaps I should make it clear that nothing I am proposing would jeopardise the unlucky businessman who made a loss so long as his elusive aim was to make a profit. 
We must also consider carefully and ruthlessly the use of family trusts as a method of tax avoidance. These trusts were justified perhaps as a means of avoiding death and probate duties which were particularly damaging to private companies and farmers. But death and probate duties are being eliminated. When they are gone, the only obvious reasons for family trusts would be for income splitting as a method of tax avoidance. One approach would be to try to close down these trusts, but this would not be easy and we might find that we have thrown out the baby and kept the bath water. Why should we do this only in relation to trusts? Why not partnerships? After all, a recent decision of the Federal Court of Australia has held that partnerships may split incomes to assign incomes to family members who are not effective members of the partnership. This is a serious problem. We must examine it carefully and try to solve it. Otherwise, we might find that we have wrecked our whole business system in the pursuit of tax purity. 
The Asprey Committee was not very helpful on this matter, although it must be remembered that at the time it was deliberating it could have felt that trusts were a justifiable means of preventing the damage done to a business by an untimely death. The Asprey Committee recognised the basic inequity, in that income splitting through trusts was not available to those people whose income comes from salaries and wages. On the solution to this income splitting, the Asprey Committee itself split- two members in favour of the proposed solution and two dissenting. Basically, their solutions involved variants of taxing families as units. I very much doubt whether this would be acceptable in this country. Along with Canada and New Zealand, Australia is one of the few countries to retain the system under which personal income tax is based on individual incomes and not on family incomes. I am sure that the Australian taxpaying public would strongly resist the loss of this privilege. We will have to try again- possibly, heaven help us, through a new inquiry- to look at this single issue and to produce a solution to the problem of income splitting which does not involve lumping family incomes together. This new inquiry should start from the premise that the chief purpose of family trusts is income tax avoidance, which certainly will be the case by the time it completes its report. 
Of course, this whole problem is not easy. General Wolfe once said that war is an option of difficulties. So is taxation legislation. But this is one nettle which we must grasp because if we do not the social and political consequences will be immense and we will not be able to continue with the very desirable process of general tax relief. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
AboriginalLand Rights 
I present the following petition from 73 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we have heard the expressed intentions of one entrepreneur to bring the Red Army Choir to Australia, and declare, that regardless of its artistic merits or demerits, the Red Army Choir is as much a unit of the Red Army as a division of tanks or artillery. It is but a propaganda unit to glorify the Soviet regime in song and music. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that just as entry into Australian ports is denied to Soviet warships, so too will entry be denied to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read- 
I preface my question to the Minister for Administrative Services by pointing out that for several years I have been campaigning to have Australian ambassadors overseas use Australian cars whenever possible. The Prime Minister has set an excellent example by deciding to exchange his German-built 
Mercedes-Benz for an Australian-built Statesman. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that a replacement car is being ordered for the Australian High Commissioner in London? Is there any truth in the rumour that it is to be a Rolls-Royce? Why does the Australian High Commissioner not follow the example of the Prime Minister and use an Australian car, of which there are at least two very suitable types, and for which adequate maintenance facilities are available in Britain? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) What positions are held by First and Second Division public servants in the Minister's Department. 
How many such officers are currently employed by the Department. 
How many such officers were employed by the Departments of Defence, Navy, Army and Air Force, and the section of the Department of Supply later transferred to his Department, in 1972. 
-I move: 
1 ) That, in the opinion of the Senate- 
Senators should no longer hold office as Ministers of State, with the exception of any senator holding the office of Leader of the Government in the Senate, who, in order adequately to represent Government priorities to the Senate, should remain a member of the Cabinet; and 
Chairmen of the Senate's Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees should be granted allowances, staffs and other entitlements similar to those currently granted to Ministers other than Ministers in the Cabinet. 
That copies of this resolution be forwarded to- 
the  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal; and 
the Prime Minister, with a request that he initiate action to give effect to the proposals, including any necessary amendments to Departmental Estimates. 
I hope it will take considerably longer. This motion is designed to test the opinion of the Senate on the problems of our parliamentary democracy, which I outlined in this chamber some months ago, and the possible role of the Senate in overcoming those problems. Of course I will not recapitulate all the arguments I used then but I would like to summarise the key conclusions. They are: All Westminster style parliaments are in serious trouble because of the complete dominance of the lower House by the Executive, caused by the increasing rigidity of the party system. The consequence has been that the lower House has no real power to constrain or question the Executive. The courts have very little. The restraining role, if it is to be performed at all, must fall largely on the upper House; and this Senate, because of its powerful constitutional position, is better placed than any other second chamber in the Westminster system to perform this role. 
But does this dominance by the Executive matter? There is no doubt about its existence. Of course, we have government by the Public Service and the Ministry. There is nothing objectionable in that. Someone must govern and the Parliament certainly cannot do it. But we also have the situation that legislation is effectively in the hands of the Public Service and the Cabinet rather than in the hands of the Parliament, which is supposed to be the legislature. To my mind this is totally objectionable. What we are becoming is not a democracy but, to use Lord Hailsham 's expression, an elective dictatorship. I cannot emphasise too strongly this fact of legislation by the Public Service. Certainly the Cabinet sets broad objectives but within these objectives the options presented to Cabinet and the details of any plan come from the Public Service. It is a brave Minister who goes counter to his departmental advice for, the Public Service being what it is, one will find that key Cabinet Ministers have been carefully briefed on what he is proposing to do and why he should not do it. Government by the Public Service is actually moderately good government but has little to do with democracy and nothing to do with the parliamentary system. It also assumes that the Public Service holds all the wisdom, a view from which I emphatically dissent. There is a vast store of wisdom and knowledge in the community which we should tap. This is particularly important in this country for our Public Service, centred in Canberra, is peculiarly isolated from the mainstream of community life. 
What we need are public hearings on all Bills produced by the Executive and rubber-stamped by the lower House. Of course, some Bills will be routine and could be speedily dealt with by the appropriate committee, but one of our Senate committees must have the right and the duty of dealing with every Bill. The Executive must certainly not decide which Bills should go to committees. In fact any Bill that the Executive does not want examined should be the one given the most searching scrutiny to find out why the Executive does not want it publicly examined. The freedom of information legislation is a good example. I cited earlier to this chamber the way in which the dramatic decision to raise our oil prices immediately to world parity went through this Parliament with almost no serious debate although the decision is ultimately the responsibility of the Parliament, not of the Executive. The Executive should propose legislation and the Parliament, after proper examination, should dispose of it. But that is not what happens now. We seem to be meekly accepting the way in which the Executive is pre-empting the role of the legislature. As we are operating at the moment we are accepting responsibility without power. 
In case anyone thinks that the oil example is an isolated one, although I am sure everyone here knows that it is not, I will cite a second example- the handling of family allowances. The Government had identified a problem with family allowances. They are not being concentrated in the areas of greatest need and this lack of concentration effectively ruled out desirable measures such as the indexation of child endowment payments. The trouble was that the Government, very badly advised, proposed a bad solution. There were then rumours of revolts and clandestine meetings and the proposal was amended. There were more rumours of revolts, more clandestine meetings and the proposal was abandoned. The Parliament, which is supposed to be the legislature, was not consulted at all and we are left still with an unsolved problem that the Government had set out to tackle. If the Parliament had been used as it should have been used, as a legislature, there should have been no problem. I am sure that the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, after hearing public evidence, would have been able to shape the Government's proposal into a workable and acceptable form. Instead of that, we have nothing. 
Then there is the problem of the decentralisation of power. In a democracy one should aim to delegate Executive power to the body closest to the people on whom that power can be effectively exercised. The trouble is that the bureaucracy works in exactly the opposite direction. Its members are incurable and effective centralisers whatever the political colour of the government they are serving. We badly need a watchdog on the decentralisation of power. The House of Representatives, the rubber stamp of the Executive, cannot do it. If it is to be done at all, we alone can do it. I do not think that everyone yet realises the dangers of the elective dictatorships into which Westminister systems are sinking. It is not just that there is much bad and out of touch legislation produced by the Public Service and bulldozed through Parliament without any real examination. For instance, in the last four sessions there has been an average of 27 Bills a session introduced into this chamber in the last week of the session and passed in the same week. We all know what scant review they received. That is bad enough. But even more serious is the way in which the community is being increasingly alienated from the whole parliamentary process. The Westminster system is sick all over the world because essentially it is a nineteenth century system based on the concept of an elite and informed electorate and a flexible lower House with an inadequate check on the Executive. Neither of these concepts is valid today, so we must restore dynamism to the Westminster system and not leave it atrophied in the state it was in during the 1890s. We must develop a body to balance the excessive power of the Executive and its dominance of the lower House and involve the community more in the parliamentary processes. We must be that body. There is no one else. 
This motion calls for the essential preliminary steps in the development of a balancing House of review somewhat along the lines of the United States Senate. I am sure we do not want to go the whole way of the United States system with its rigid separation of powers. That system of checks and balances often seems to be more check than balance, but we can learn from it. The motion I am proposing contains two positive proposals which, if implemented, would transform the role of this chamber into an effective and reasonable balance on the excessive powers of the Executive. The first proposal, with one exception I will deal with in a moment, is that Ministers should no longer be appointed from here. I am certain that the presence of Ministers in this chamber is incompatible with its effective performance as a 
House of review. There is an inherent and insoluble conflict in having a House of review in which five of its most influential members are devoted inevitably to preventing its performing effectively as a House of review. Even more damaging to the proper performance of this Senate as a House of review are those who are not Ministers but would like to be. The fact is that our whole aspiration pyramid is skewed in the wrong direction. It is quite proper and natural under the present system for honourable senators to wish to join the Executive. 
That may be what they want. That is quite proper and natural if that is one's aspiration pyramid. But that is utterly incompatible with a role as a House of review, a check and balance on that same Executive. If we wish to be an effective House of review we must distance ourselves from the Executive. 
The second proposal is that the chairmen of the eight Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees should receive the pay, entitlements and personal staff of non-Cabinet Ministers. If these Senate committees develop as they should, as public scrutineers of proposed government legislation and as watchdogs on the proper decentralisation of Executive power, their chairmen will be at least as powerful and important as any Ministers, and it is just that they should be appropriately recognised and rewarded. Incidentally, in case anyone thinks that eight chairmen is a rather excessive number to be recognised, I would point out that they represent one-eighth of our total strength. The 22 Ministers in the House of Representatives are more than one-sixth of the strength of that chamber. Since Federation the Senate has always been short-changed with regard to its Ministers. The purpose and desirability of the increased staff are obvious, although it should be emphasised that the increased staff would be for committee work and not for the chairmen personally. Senate committees have been ludicrously understaffed. This would improve the situation somewhat. 
Some may complain that removing extra pay and entitlements from four Ministers and giving them to eight chairmen would be a substantial additional expense. This is not so. The pay and entitlements of a Minister are only, to use a currently overworked expression, the tip of the iceberg. Each Minister has to have a department; each department has to have premises and a secretary and  deputy  secretaries and first assistant secretaries and all the rest of the infrastructure. The cost of running a separate department as opposed to the same function being carried out by a division of a larger department could not be less than several hundred thousand dollars a year and is probably, under Parkinson's law, much more. There would therefore be great economies in reducing the Ministry by four and giving the equivalent entitlements to eight chairmen. 
How would this change work in practice? Of course its implementation would be a matter for the Standing Orders Committee in the first instance, but I merely put forward a possible way in which such a system could work to show that it is not an unrealistic pipe dream. First of all, although there would be no place for Ministers as part of the executive government in this chamber there would be a need for the Leader of the Government here to be a member of the Cabinet without departmental responsibilities, possibly as Vice-President of the Executive Council, so that the priorities of government legislation could properly be represented to the Senate. The Senate might not agree with or might not accept these priorities, but at least it should know of them. 
I must say that I do not see that there is any particular merit in second reading debates in this chamber on Bills which have already passed the House of Representatives. If a Bill passes the House of Representatives we can take it that that is what the Government wants. Our role as a House of review should not be to repeat those arguments over again. That seems to me quite pointless. Anyway no one seems to listen while we do it. What we should do is to take the government Bill and examine it critically in a standing committee, hearing public evidence on it to see if it does in the most efficient way what the Government says it wants done. 
There is a great deal of expert opinion available in the community. Expertise is often not available in the Commonwealth Public Service. I therefore suggest that every Bill that comes to this chamber from the House of Representatives should go straight to the appropriate legislative and general purposes committee. These committee hearings must be in public and must involve the community to the greatest possible extent because only by doing this can we remove the very general alienation of the community from the parliamentary processes. We also would frequently require the presence of the responsible Minister to give evidence on his Bill to the committee. There is nothing in our present Standing Orders to prevent such appearances and I am sure that wise Ministers would welcome the chance to improve the prospects of their Bills emerging unscathed. 
Some ask whether a committee is an appropriate instrument for such a vital review role. Many barbed shafts are thrown at committees. A camel is a horse designed by a committee is an old chestnut. I prefer the description of a committee as being like a baby- a loud voice at one end and no sense of responsibility at the other. But these are criticisms of committees as executive bodies in which role I agree they have many defects. But they are excellent for an inquiry role. We are all aware of the way in which rigid party attitudes melt away when a Senate committee is considering a particular problem, and there is a very general desire to get the best answer. I think an all-party Senate committee is an ideal instrument to hold public hearings on proposed government legislation. It would be inevitable that the conclusions of this type of committee examination in detail of government Bills would result in substantial amendments. This is a highly desirable prospect. 
As I argued before, the idea that legislation as produced by public servants and accepted or modified by the Cabinet should be sacrosanct, is utter nonsense. I also argued that public hearings would push lobby groups into the open. Lobbying is a legitimate part of the democratic process. As a major influence in the framing of legislation and government decision making it too should be subject to public scrutiny. At the moment pressure groups chiefly operate on public servants in secret. They should be forced into the open, which committee hearings would do. 
Another advantage of referring Bills to committees is that they could be dealt with at leisure between sessions as in fact has been done with the Freedom of Information Bill. It would be of great advantage if this procedure extended more widely. Of course, some Bills are urgent and cannot be delayed but these are much fewer than most people think and could be even fewer with proper forward planning by the Public Service. Some permanent heads have the reputation of bringing their legislation in at the last possible moment so as to limit the time for irritating parliamentary scrutiny. We most certainly should not put up with this practice if it ever occurs. 
I have admitted previously that an inevitable effect of having proper committee examination of Bills would be that fewer Bills would be passed. This would be an unmitigated blessing. We pass far too many Bills as it is. For the last 10 years we have averaged 147 Acts a year with the record of 221 Acts in 1974 when the Senate was supposed to be obstructive. Over the same period the British Parliament averaged 74 Acts and the Canadian Parliament 48 Acts as compared with our 147 Acts. Admittedly we have special constitutional requirements that force us to bring in two Bills on certain money matters which in other parliaments would be covered in a single Bill; but such Bills have a minor effect on the total and in no way explain why we pass three times as many Acts as Canada and twice as many as Britain, particularly as the British Parliament combines the functions of our Federal and State parliaments. 
Anything that would stem the flood of legislation would have to be an improvement. I repeat that what I have outlined is only one method by which the Senate, reorganised as a House of review without Ministers, could operate. I suggest that it would be workable and a vast improvement on what happens now. When I was in Washington last year I looked with some care at the procedures of the United States Senate. I have incorporated some of my conclusions into these suggestions. There is much we can learn from the United States Senate procedures although, of course, we must recognise that it operates under a very different political structure. 
Of course, there will be objections to the changes I am proposing. There always must be objections to change. I think I should try to tackle these objections head on. The first question is: Why so radical a change, why not continue with gradual development? My answer is that we have gone about as far as we can by gradualism. The committee system is now firmly established. We cannot use it effectively for searching review of the proposals of the Executive while we have Ministers here. I have said before, and I repeat, that there is a fundamental and irreconcilable conflict if we retain Ministers. Senate committees can never be expected to function effectively as a check and balance on the Executive while the promotion pyramid in the Senate is skewed in a different direction towards involvement in that Executive. 
While on the subject of Ministers, it will no doubt be said that I was being unrealistic in assuming that the elimination of Senate Ministers would not result in an immediate increase in the number of Ministers in the House of Representatives. I cannot say this would not happen but I do say that it should not. There are at present 22 Ministers in the House of Representatives. On any reasonable administrative structure there should not be more than 20 government departments. The factors pressing a Prime Minister to have more Ministers- State balance, the need to recognise ability, to reward supporters and to foster talent- would not be increased by the elimination of Senate Ministers. If additional political supervision of the bureaucracy is required- and I think it is- the response should not be the weirdly extravagant and inefficient one of creating new Ministers and new departments, usually without a proper chain of responsibility to existing departments. It would surely be preferable to extend political control by appointing parliamentary secretaries to Ministers such as are used in the British Parliament. Such parliamentary secretaries have the advantage of being unpaid and do not need a departmental structure of their own. It is also a very convenient way of trying out the administrative ability of promising back benchers. I think their reintroduction in the House of Representatives is long overdue. 
I do not want to spend any more time on this digression. However, I want to fortify my case that the number of Ministers in the House of Representatives would not have to be increased. If pressed I could name at least six departments which could be absorbed as divisions of other departments, perhaps supervised by a specially appointed parliamentary secretary, with a resultant considerable increase in efficiency and substantial cost savings. 
I do not want to get too involved in the subject,  Senator Mulvihill,  but I say that if we reviewed the departments of Trade and Resources, Industry and Commerce, Primary Industry, Productivity, Business and Consumer Affairs and Special Trade Representations I am sure that we could manage with two departments without any great difficulty. I do not want to restructure the whole Federal bureaucracy but I say merely that it could be and should be reduced to about 20 separate departments with great cost savings and considerable improvements in efficiency. 
On another point, am I being naive in thinking that any Senate would be prepared to give up the power, prestige and rewards of Ministers? I dealt a moment ago with the question of rewards. If it is power we are talking about, I invite honourable senators to compare the power of a  chairman  of a United States Senate committee with the power of a Minister in one of our recent governments. I have no doubt where the greater power and prestige lie. But what about Question 
Time if there were no Ministers in the Senate with departmental responsibilities? I do not think that this chamber is properly employed in probing day-to-day political events and in trying to score political points. Political point scoring can safely be left to the House of Representatives. 
I think that what we want here is more serious questioning on longer term issues. The Question Time procedure used by the British House of Commons would seem to me to be admirable for this purpose. If we used the House of Commons procedure the result would be this: Ministers would appear in this chamber on a roster basis to answer questions of which they would be given notice and supplementary questions would be admitted not only from the questioner but also from other senators. This would be an interesting experience for Ministers from the House of Representatives who would be unable to get away with their usual habit of answering a different question if they did not like the question they were asked. I think that this system, as used in the British House of Commons, would provide a very valuable and proper question time for us. I should also make it quite clear that the review powers I am talking about are not new. We already have all the power we need. I am merely proposing a reorganisation which would make effective our use of our existing powers. 
What about Estimates committees? There need be no significant change in Estimates committees. They could continue much as they are, if that is what the Senate wants, but I should say that there seems to be some problems with these committees as they operate at the moment. It seems to me that they are too few in number, that they cover strange assortments of departments, that they do not have the responsible Minister present for most of the time and that their research staff is inadequate. Most of these problems have been caused by the existence of Senate Ministers. 
The number of Estimates committees has been governed very largely by the number of Senate Ministers, and the subjects they consider are governed by the representation responsibilities assigned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the various Senate Ministers. These tend not to have a community of interest. For instance, Defence and Foreign Affairs, which are closely related subjects, last year were examined by different Estimates committees because the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  were represented here by different Ministers. Looking at the span of interests, as  Senator Chaney  is in the chamber I will refer particularly to Estimates Committee E. Last year it dealt with the Departments of Administrative Services, Industry and Commerce, Transport, Productivity, and Environment, Housing and Community Development. This is a span of interest which might be appropriate for  Senator Chaney  but it is not one that many senators would share. 
I think that a smaller number of departments and a larger number of committees would be even better. I think that if we do away with Ministers in the Senate we should consider whether the functions of the Estimates committees should be taken over by the legislative and general purpose committees, which in any case cannot usefully meet while the Estimates committees are working. This is the practice in the United States Senate. The legislative and general purpose committees would be greater in number, would be better staffed and their members would have a community of interest with the departments they would be reviewing. In either case, whether the Estimates committees continue separately or not, it would be necessary to summon the responsible Ministers from the House of Representatives. This is permitted by our present Standing Orders and I am sure that they would come. However, I repeat that there would be no reason why the Estimates committees should not continue as at present in the changed circumstances if that is what the Senate wished. 
If there should be a move in the direction I have outlined, how are we to achieve it? Several different steps are needed. Firstly, in the first instance the payment of committee chairmen is a matter for the Remuneration Tribunal although, of course, Parliament ultimately decides. I think that a resolution of this chamber would be very compelling on the Tribunal. Secondly, there is the question of the cessation of appointments of Ministers. This, I suppose, is a matter for the Prime Minister but again I think that he would find a resolution of the chamber very compelling. Finally there is the question of how to provide support for committee chairmen on the same basis as non-Cabinet Ministers. Here are two departmental estimates involved- those for Parliament and those for the Department of Administrative Services. Again the initiative has to come from the Government, presumably from the 
Prime Minister. For these reasons I have suggested that the motion, if adopted, be transmitted both to the Remuneration Tribunal and to the Prime Minister. 
These matters, although important, are essentially procedural. What we have to face is whether we wish to take decisive steps in the development of the Westminster system of government, steps which would set this chamber up as a check and a balance on the activities of the Executive and provide a focus through which there could be increased community involvement in the processes of government. I believe that these developments are of immense importance to our political system and are probably vital to its long-term survival. They would be the most important and democratic and valuable advances made in the Westminster system this century. I therefore commend the motion to the Senate and hope not only for a vote in favour of it but also for a commitment to see through its implementation. If we really want it, it will happen. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  Is the motion seconded? 
I rise to speak very briefly on the Foreign Antitrust Judgments (Restriction of Enforcement) Bill 1979. Firstly, I wish to deal with the amendment moved by the Opposition. I agree with the purpose of the amendment. I think it is very important that the Government should make quite clear what balance of national interest it is protecting. We have a national interest in the elimination of international trusts. We also have a national interest in the preservation of the effective working of our companies operating inside Australia. It is very important that the Attorney-General, when he makes his order should make quite clear on what balance of national interest he is proposing the order. I do not think it is necessary to go to Parliament first. That would be very ineffective; Parliament is not in session for long periods of the year. I think it would be perfectly adequate if the Attorney-General when making his order, attached documents setting out in detail the national interest on the basis of which he is proposing to put forward the order. Of course, the order is subject to disallowance by either House of Parliament 
He has to do that, but if these documents were attached to the order so that they could be examined by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, for instance, I think that would be an adequate protection. I would like an assurance from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that that will be done as a matter of course and that the Attorney-General will state very clearly what national interest he is protecting. 
The second point with which I would like to deal concerns the power of Parliament over the decisions of the Attorney-General on these very important matters. In sub-clauses (5) and (6) of clause 3 the Bill provides very properly for disallowance of the Attorney-General's order by either House of Parliament; and if neither House of Parliament disallows the Attorney-General's order it must be taken that Parliament agrees with the wisdom of his decision. That is fine; but what happens if the Attorney-General or his successor for good reasons or bad changes his mind and rescinds his order? What power does Parliament have over this abrupt change of a decision which has been implicitly approved by Parliament. I think that the power of Parliament in this respect is very doubtful. 
I would be very grateful if the AttorneyGeneral, in his reply, could answer a number of questions that bear on this problem. The first question is: Under the provisions of this Bill, is his order in writing an instrument within the meaning of section 33 (3) of the Acts Interpretation Act? Secondly, if it is and if the AttorneyGeneral wished to rescind an order he had made, would it be necessary for him to issue another order rescinding the first order and would this rescinding order be subject to disallowance by either House of Parliament? Thirdly, even if this rescinding order were subject to disallowance, is that an effective power? Would disallowance revive the original order? I do not think it would; and, if it did not, the disallowance power would be futile. I would be very grateful if the AttorneyGeneral could clarify this point. I think it is just as important for Parliament to have power over a rescinding order which alters a decision implicitly approved by Parliament as it is for Parliament to have power of disallowance over the original order. I would be very grateful if the Attorney-General would deal with this matter in his remarks. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment who is also the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Is it a fact that the Mumimbidgee River is heavily polluted downstream from Canberra? Is the pollution so bad in places that even stock will not drink from it? Is the pollution caused by the discharge of Canberra sewerage into the river? If the Minister doubts that there is that level of pollution, is he prepared to drink a glass of Mumimbidgee River water? If he accepts that level of pollution, can he say what is being done about it? 
-Last year I told the Senate- perhaps with slight exaggeration but not much- that the Departments of Defence as reorganised in 1975, was a disaster area. I should like now to be more specific about what I think is wrong with that organisation, and how it could be restructured to make it more effective. 
First, we have to decide what we want a defence department to do. One must have such a department, or departments, because this is the only practical mechanism through which, under our system, political control of the Defence Force can be exercised. This political control of the Defence Force- subservience to the elected Government- is not in dispute in this country. The trouble is that sometimes it is interpreted as implying subservience to the Public Service, which is liable to cause great inefficiency and resentment. 
Whilst I am on the subject of the political control of the Department of Defence, I should make the point that the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Kiilen)  is grossly overloaded. He is doing, with merely the part-time assistance of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay),  work that used to be done by five Ministers. I think that the span of political control should be greatly widened. To my mind, the best solution would be to appoint three or four Parliamentary Secretaries to the Minister. Perhaps one could be assigned responsibility for each armed service, and another could be responsible for defence production. I have argued previously the desirability of having Parliamentary Secretaries who could provide political supervision without requiring an expensive department of their own, and certainly the Minister for Defence deserves extra support. 
The second requirement of a defence department is that it should provide professional advice to the Government, which must decide ultimately the strategic risks that face Australia and the resultant needs for personnel, organisation and equipment of the various arms of the Defence Force and- an area that is often not given sufficient weight- of the necessary logistic backup, including defence industry. 
The third requirement of a defence department is that it provide for effective operational and administrative control of the Defence Force, that is, the three armed services. 
The fourth requirement is that a Defence department should have the confidence of servicemen. Morale is an elusive quality- usually you do not notice it until you have lost it- and a vital ingredient of morale is confidence in the command. Servicemen are required and prepared to risk and, if necessary, to sacrifice their lives, but if we are to expect them to do this it is essential that they believe that those who are in authority understand their problems and know what they are doing. 
Finally, I come back to a different aspect of my first point. We must always remember that the Defence Department is not only a Defence Force headquarters but also a great department of State. That does not mean that the key positions should necessarily be held by public servants. That may sometimes be desirable when those public servants have appropriate skills, but it is certainly not a necessary general rule. Let us look for example at the Department of Foreign Affairs, where the key positions are held by professional diplomats who are as separate from the general run of public servants are are the professional servicemen. Indeed, it would be as inappropriate to appoint a public servant to a controlling- and 1 mean dominant- position in the Defence Department as it would be to appoint a retired general with no diplomatic experience as the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Of course, the position would be exacerbated if the general were openly contemptuous of diplomacy and diplomats. 
There is no doubt that the defence organisation which existed before 1975 did not meet the requirements that I have stated. Before 1975, each armed service was controlled by a board that was organised on functional lines but exercised collective responsibility in most matters. Each board comprised four or five professional service officers and one or two public servants. The  chairman  was usually the responsible Minister. In his absence the Chief of Staff presided. Over the service boards was the rather amorphous Department of Defence, almost entirely public service in nature, but with the enormous power which resides in the body which presents to Cabinet the case of the individual service's financial requirements for manpower and equipment. 
There were, of course, many glaring defects in this organisation. There was no overall command system. The  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staffs committee had no command authority. That did not matter much when our military role was to provide units to serve under the command of the forces of other nations, but once we turned to look at operations of our own which, by their very nature, would normally involve more than one service, the command vacuum could no longer be tolerated. But that was not the most serious defect. In the pre- 1975 defence structure, the three completely separated services, which were co-ordinated feebly by a Public Servicedominated Department of Defence, sometimes seemed more concerned with fighting each other than with fighting a potential enemy. Timely, agreed assessments other than at the lowest common denominator, were almost impossible to obtain. 
The problem, of course, was not helped by the fact that the defence vote was, in money terms, for long periods held static during a time of rapid inflation. This caused service chiefs to fight desperately for larger shares of the cake to ensure the survival of those capabilities of their own service that they deemed vital, and be damned to the other services. That was natural, perhaps, but not very helpful overall. The position was also not helped by the rapid and fundamental changes which occurred in the national strategy. Five major changes have occurred since World War 2. Some of these were effectively imposed by the Government, but all of the changes in strategy had caused, or should have caused, substantial changes in our force composition. 
By 1975 a re-organisation which would create a much stronger and more effective defence department was clearly necessary. Wisely, no attempt was made to merge the three services as had been done in Canada- the single mudcoloured uniform approach- a solution which has little to recommend it. Probably it does achieve co-ordination but at the cost of the vital ingredient of unit morale. We are much better off with separate services, if adequately controlled and co-ordinated. 
The 1975 re-organisation was achieved as a result of a report that had been prepared by public servants, who recommended a single defence department. No reasonable person could quarrel with that, but there can be a great deal of disagreement over the way in which it was actually done. The report itself was, on the whole, an unimpressive document but despite the unanimous disagreement to some important parts of it by the Chiefs of Staff, it was accepted in toto by the Whitlam Government. 
What did the re-organisation achieve? To look at the good side first, it set up an operational commander of the defence force, that is, of all three armed services. The choice of title for the commander of the defence force- Chief of Defence Force Staff- was a curious one. I do not know whether the intention was to downgrade him, but as commander of the Defence Force, that is what he should be called. He is much more than merely the chief of a group of staff officers. His function is, to use the words of the Act, to command the Defence Force subject to, and in accordance with, any directions of the Minister. The administration of the Defence Force is the joint responsibility of the Secretary of the Chief of Defence Force Staff. The latter arrrangement, by the way, breaches one of the established military principles. The commander must have under his command the forces that support his task. 
Before I leave the subject of the Chief of Defence Force Staff, there is one other aspect on which I should like to touch. Since the 1 975 reorganisation there have been three chiefs of defence force staff. A fourth has just been appointed but only for two years. Such short tenures inevitably diminish the influence of a chief of defence force staff. Apart from ill health, the requirement for rotation has dictated the short tenures. I think that the rotation requirement should not apply to the defence force commander. The usual argument for this rotation, that otherwise the promotion of junior officers would be hindered, decs not apply to him. He is separate from the ordinary service promotion structure. If we have a good defence force commander we should stick to him. He certainly should not be compulsorily retired at 60 years of age. After all, the most dynamic naval administrator of this century, Jackie Fisher, became First Sea Lord at the age of 63 years. He finally retired, very reluctantly, at the age of 74 years. 
Winston Churchill became Prime Minister for the first time at 66 years of age. Of course, it varies with the individual, but we must not wreck our defence organisation because it is Buggins's turn to be defence force commander. 
I hope it is not about the pension aspect, as has been argued. Basically, what I am saying is that if we have a good man as defence force commander we should stick to him. We should not feel obliged to rotate him for reasons such as balance between the Services or any other factors such as that mentioned by  Senator Lewis.  The 1975 reforms also abolished the three service boards. In their place a commander of each service was appointed. He is responsible to the defence force commander. Again, these three service commanders were given the archaic and inappropriate titles of chiefs of staff. 
One significant point that must be made is that the involvement of the three service commanders or their representatives in nearly all aspects of forward planning in the Defence Department, although it is hallowed by tradition, cuts right across the functional organisation of the Defence Department. It helps to create inefficiency and the proliferation of the committees which are the bane of the Defence Department. I think this involvement is a tradition which has outlived its usefulness. If we could create a professional, functionally organised defence department, the service commanders could with great advantage concentrate on the efficient running of their Services and leave the Defence Department to do the long-range planning. I think this part of the structure is otherwise all right. 
There are, however, two points I would like to make. I hope that in any significant military operation involving more than one service-almost all significant military operations will involve more than one service- a single commander will be appointed for the operation, responsible to the defence force commander. The necessary navy, army and air force units must be unequivocally assigned to this commander who must not be in Canberra. If he were in Canberra the number of people second-guessing him would make his task almost impossible. The second point is that the reorganisation report, the Tange report, did not deal with the organisation of the three Services outside their central headquarters. Here there is plenty of scope for tidying up, a task which I hope the defence force commander will soon tackle. 
Each service is organised differently. The air force is organised on functional lines. It has an operational command and a support command, although I understand that this organisation is under review. The army was recently reorganised on a three-pronged structure. It has operational, training and logistic commands. Incidentally, this is a structure which the air force tried and abandoned. The navy has just adopted yet another type of functional structure. It has an operational command and a support command like the air force, but the support command of the navy has no responsibility for dockyards and very little responsibility for training, the responsibility for which is held in the Navy Office in Canberra. There would, I am sure, be improvements in efficiency and economy if the three Services were organised on the same principles and their corresponding commands colocated or, at the very least, located close to each other. Such a desirable arrangement will not come about by chance. It will have to be imposed by the defence force commander. 
What about the rest of the Defence Department structure, other than the operational control of the Defence Force? This is where the trouble is. The present Secretary has said that the Defence Department is not structured for war. I most certainly agree with him, but I do not share his complacency. 
We have to be ready for war at any time. Any prudent government has a defence organisation which is ready for war at any time. Looking at the Defence Department in this light, what is its structure? It has varied somewhat since the original Tange report, but its principles remain constant. Effectively, all the remaining power is in the hands of the Secretary. The divisions under the Secretary admittedly have the responsibility of advising and informing the Chief of Defence Force Staff as appropriate and as required- I use the words of an official document- but the effective power rests with the Secretary. 
Under the Secretary are three  deputy  secretaries. It is worth spelling out their responsibilities because they show the extraordinary range of the responsibilities of the Secretary. The first  deputy  secretary is responsible to the Secretary for the Industrial Division, the Personnel Administration and Policy Division, the Establishments Division, the Financial Services and Internal Audit Division and the Manpower Policy and Requirements Branch. The second  deputy  secretary is responsible to the Secretary for the Strategic and International Policy Division which includes defence representation abroad, the Force Development and Analysis Division, the Programs and Budgets Division, the Natural Disaster Organisation and the three service chiefs of materiel. The latter are what are called two-hatted appointments. They sometimes work in their own service and sometimes in the Department of Defence. When they work in the Department of Defence they are responsible to the second  deputy  secretary. The third  deputy  secretary is responsible to the Secretary for the Defence Industry and Materiel Policy Division, the Defence Facilities Division, the Defence Communications System Division and the Management and General Services Division. On the same level is the Chief Defence Scientist who is responsible to the Secretary for, iter alia, the Military Studies and Operational Analysis Division and the Computing Services Division. Finally, still on the same level, is the Chief of Supply and Support who is responsible to the Secretary for the Supply Division, the Quality Assurance and Engineering Resources Policy Division and the three service chiefs of technical services. The latter appointments are two-hatted like the chiefs of materiel. 
It will come as no surprise to senators that all five of these key policy-making positions are held by public servants. Most of the divisions under these five top men are headed by first assistant secretaries. Under them are numerous assistant secretaries and so on through the whole infrastructure. An enormous structure has been built up. The 1975 re-organisation of five government departments into one department has resulted astonishingly in an increase in the number of top public servants. The Defence Department now has a total of 1 18 First and Second Division public servants- by far the most of any department in the whole Public Service. There are 31,377 public servants in the Defence Department. That is almost exactly the manpower strength of the whole Regular Army. I do not want to give the impression that all these public servants are wastefully employed or that they could properly be replaced by servicemen. On the contrary, the role of public servants is to support the Defence Force by releasing trained professional servicemen for roles which they can best perform. Of the 31,000-odd public servants nearly 5,000 are working for defence science, 5,600 are in the naval dockyards and nearly 10,000 are in the Services' supply organisations. 
Although I have no doubt that economies could be achieved in this type of support, particularly in the naval dockyards whose productivity is appalling and whose likely reliability in a defence crisis is worse, it is not these positions about which I am talking. What I am worried about is the areas where public servants without appropriate experience or qualifications effectively dictate defence policy. Such positions, of course, are filled by First Division, Second Division or senior Third Division public servants. When one hears of cutbacks in the number of public servants, one should not be deluded into thinking they occur among Clyde Cameron's 'fat cats'- the First and Second Division public servants. More typically, they occur among civilian employees taken on in order to release skilled servicemen for the role for which they have been trained. It must be said that there are some- only a relatively small numberprofessional officers integrated into this structure responsible to the Secretary, generally at the lower levels. 
The shortage of professional skills in the Defence Department inevitably causes a proliferation of committees. The Tange report recommended the establishment of 12 major policy and management committees. But there are in fact now many more committees. I heard the figure the other day of nearly 200 committees in the Defence Department. Certainly I have been informed that a  Deputy  Chief of Staff was personally involved with 27 committees. Committees used to be the bane of the old Defence structure. They were unavoidable then because the activities of five separate departments had to be co-ordinated. It is a tragedy that committees have continued under the new structure. This type of management by committee is contrary to the whole administrative approach of the armed Services. Although sometimes unavoidable it is in fact in general very bad administration, except perhaps at the very top where the span of information and skills involved may make a functional committee inescapable. Of course, committees are beloved by public servants who are accustomed to their somewhat leisurely and frequent indecisive method of operation. A skilled committee man in the position of power can delay a decision not for months but for years. Our Defence Department is becoming notorious for the way in which problems are passed to and fro and up and down between committees and for its reluctance or inability to make decisions. Someone recently rather rudely compared the Defence Department to a constipated cow into which one feeds a hell of a lot of grass at one end and nothing comes out the other end. 
While on the subject of numbers, I should make it clear that it is not only in public servants that the Defence Department is overstaffed. The laudable desire to integrate professional servicemen and public servants at equivalent levels, and the top heavy nature of the Public Service structure, have caused an explosion in the senior ranks of servicemen in Canberra. In the Defence organisation in Canberra there are now 27 generals, admirals or air marshals; 56 brigadiers or their equivalents; and 131 full colonels. All this is for a Defence Force of only 70,000. This does not take into account the senior headquarters or those serving in ships, battalions or squadrons in the field. Think of it- a defence headquarters with 27 generals and 56 brigadiers. The balance between operational and headquarters numbers, of course, is a problem that has been around for a long time, but it has been exacerbated in recent years, except perhaps in the Army which always has had a top heavy rank structure. The Navy, for instance, has 14 admirals and 21 commodores for a total strength of 16,000 whereas in World War II, when the strength was more than 40,000, there were only four admirals and three commodores. We now have one-third the total naval strength but three times the number of admirals and seven times the number of commodores. 
This over-ranking has most unfortunate effects. The Services are faced with the unpalatable alternatives either of accepting that most of their senior officers will be chairborne in Canberra with little or no recent operational experience, or else of over-ranking the relatively small number of operational jobs. I told the Senate earlier how the Navy tried to meet this problem by providing our United States-built destroyers with one captain and four commanders while United States sister ships had one commander. I will take another example. The nuclear powered aircraft carrier,  USS Enterprise,  has more fighters and strike aircraft than our entire defence Force in Australia yet it is commanded by a captain. The  Melbourne  is commanded by a commodore which, incidentally, creates great problems if the two operate together because on a rank basis, the small  Melbourne  would have tactical control of the very large  Enterprise.  So, it is not surprising that they do not often operate together. Even ranking measures such as this go nowhere near solving the problem. What is needed urgently is to bring the rank structure at Defence headquarters into a more reasonable balance with the size of our forces.  Mr Deputy 
President you may be thinking that surely I am exaggerating and surely the Defence Department cannot be that bad. My reply is that history is littered with examples of defence departments, war offices and admiralties which became grossly bloated and incompetent in peacetime. 1 believe we have an advanced case of this historically common disease. 
What needs to be done to straighten out this mess? The first thing which must be done is to restructure the management at the top. The span of responsibility of the Secretary of the Department is quite inappropriate. It covers matters as diverse as strategic policy, financial management, operational analysis, personnel administration and policy, force development, computing services and communications. There is no one in the present Public Service, nor is there likely to be in the future, who is remotely qualified to understand, let along direct, such a varied range of activities, nor would one be likely to find someone in the Defence Force. What in fact has happened is that the five senior public servants responsible to the Secretary have been given a considerable degree of autonomy. So what we have at the top is an unstructured group of managers consisting of six public servants and one professional serviceman. 
The span of interest in the Defence Department is far wider than that of any other Government department. The only way one could get the necessary informed input at the top decision making level is to have a board, perhaps called the defence council, of, say, five or six members, predominantly professional servicemen. This defence council should be organised on functional lines and be statutorily responsible for all the business of the Department with some particular members having exclusive responsibilities- the obvious ones being the Chief of Defence Force Staff for command of the Defence Force and the Secretary for the statutory financial responsibility. This is the type of management structure recommended by Lord Mountbatten for the British Ministry of Defence. With regard to the title of this body, perhaps I should mention that there is at the moment an informal group called the defence council or council of defence. This group comprises the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Administrative Services, the Secretary of the Department and the four chiefs of staff. The present Minister for Defence deserves great praise for setting up this group. It enables him to hear directly and regularly of the problems of the individual armed Services. I am sure this type of meeting should continue although I think it should be limited to the Minister and his four top servicemen. The title 'defence council' would be better given to the top Defence management body which I have proposed. 
A reformed Defence Department should be predominantly manned by professional servicemen, certainly in the key decision-making positions. The Public Service should perform its proper role of supporting, not directing, the professionals in the defence field. The financial side, at the top anyway, in my view should be run by the Public Service. The Defence Force always has to watch the balance between operational and non-operational appointments. Financial management is clearly an area where the skills of the Public Service could be harnessed to the support of the Defence Force. There will, of course, be other key positions which would not normally be filled by servicemen- scientific and defence production posts, for example. The people with the necessary skills and experience in these fields would not often be available in the Public Service. I believe that for these posts we must be prepared to consider recruiting on a contract basis suitable people from outside both the Defence Force and the Public Service. 
The Minister for Defence must be the  chairman  of the Defence Council which I propose. He bears the ultimate responsibility, and he should hear the arguments which lead up to the conclusions.  His deputy  should be the Defence Force commander. A similar arrangement should apply to the Defence Committee, which brings together the permanent heads of other departments to consider appropriate defence problems in a wider context. I mention the position of the Defence Force commander because it is important that the Government receives proper professional defence inputs at the highest level. As an example of the dangers that can arise I mention that new Cabinet committees covering various subjects, and the groups of officials appointed to advise them, were recently announced. The advisers to the Cabinet Defence Committee comprise six public servants and not a single professional serviceman. 
What else needs to be done in a reformed Defence Department? The decision-making process needs a radical change. If we set up a functional structure, with qualified professionals at all levels, it will not be necessary to refer every complex question to committees which are normally a reflection of ignorance or weakness. Officers should be required to make decisions after studying the relevant factors or, if the decision is beyond their authority, to forward the proposal with a clear recommendation as to action. This is the normal procedure in the Defence Force, as it is in any properly run administration. We must do away with the extraordinary network of Defence Department committees which are superb vehicles for procrastination and lowest common denominator compromises but are disastrous for incisive administration. 
The size of the Defence Department also should be radically reduced. At the moment it is fantastically bloated. In the Defence Department's central organisation, according to the 1978 Defence Report, there are now 5,270 people. The cost in salaries alone cannot be all that far short of $ 100m a year. This is absurd. I think that the target should be to reduce the central defence organisation to not more than half its present size- preferably smaller- and to have a lean and efficient Defence Department. The service rank structure and the equivalent Public Service levels in the Defence Department must also be brought into reasonable balance with the size and rank structure of our operational Defence Force. On this subject, one of the quainter aspects of the Tange report was the way it gave equivalent military rank to various levels of public servants, describing them as four, three, two and one star appointments- using the American descriptions of generals, lieutenant-generals, major-generals and brigadier-generals. Incidentally, most people seem to think that the public servants, perhaps not surprisingly, rated themselves one rank too high. This certainly will have to be looked at when the defence structure is overhauled. 
Finally, the prestige of the Defence Department, in the view of operational servicemen, must be radically raised. At the moment most servicemen would probably echo Gilbert and Sullivan in  HMS Pinafore,  mutatis mutandis: 
Now, landsmen all, whoever you may be, If you want to rise to the top of the tree, If your soul isn 't fettered to an office stool, Be careful to be guided by this golden ruleStick close to your desks and never go to sea, And you all may be Rulers of the Queen's Navee! 
I must say that I have never known a time when respect for the Defence Department was so low. I find this very disturbing. The professionalisation of the Department would do a great deal to raise its prestige. It is also to be hoped that its approach would change radically. I remember being impressed by a large photograph in an office in the old Department of the Navy. It showed a destroyer ploughing through really heavy seas of the type that makes even the most hardened sailor feel queasy. Underneath was the caption 'For whom we serve'. I hope that that attitude becomes widespread throughout the new Department, by precept and example. 
How are we to achieve reform of the Defence Department? It certainly will not be achieved by a nibbling around the edges by the Public Service Board. The power of expansion or resistance through Parkinson's law would undoubtedly overwhelm such nibbling. What we need is a major external review of the whole structure, by someone outside both the Public Service and the Defence Force, with no axe to grind or empire to build, to implement the sort of principles I have outlined. After all, the present structure has now had more than three years trial and has been found badly wanting. It is a tragedy that such a mess was made by the Whitlam Governmentand continued by us- of the very desirable process of integrating the higher defence organisation. The ancient Greeks had a prayer: 'Give mine enemy a golden sword'. A modern version might well be: 'Give mine enemy a structure like the Australian Defence Department'. It is not a situation we should or can afford to tolerate any longer. 
-The four Bills under consideration provide the statutory framework for far-reaching reforms of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I support them; they are important and necessary. The 1956 Act, which is a very short one, did not meet the modern security needs of our community. The reforms embodied in the Bill before us were recommended by  Mr Justice  Hope in the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security after he had conducted a thorough and searching review of our needs for a security service. I need hardly remind the Senate that  Mr Justice  Hope was appointed by the Whitlam Government and it is to be hoped that in these discussions a bi-partisan attitude, which was not entirely evident when  Senator Evans  was speaking, will shine through. I am delighted that there is unanimous agreement on the need for such a security intelligence organisation. 
It is important that the functions of this Organisation are clearly stated in the Bill and it is worth listing them as they appear in clause 17. The functions of ASIO are to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security; for purposes relevant to security and not otherwise, to communicate any such intelligence; and to advise Ministers and authorities of the Commonwealth in respect of matters relating to security. Security ' is a word which has different meanings for many people but the meaning of 'security' is denned in this Bill. It is denned as the protection of the people from espionage, sabotage, subversion, active measures of foreign intervention or terrorism whether directed from or committed within Australia. In all our discussions it is important to keep this definition of 'security' before us. 
It is important to note that although ASIO will be collecting information on these matters this does not create criminal offences. Any criminal offences involved in these matters have to be dealt with in the ordinary courts and proved in public. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is an intelligence organisation; it is not a law enforcement agency. Another important development in this Bill which must be thoroughly discussed by the Senate is the principle, which I support entirely, that ASIO must comply with the law at all times. That was a clear recommendation by  Mr Justice  Hope and I do not think that any honourable senator here could possibly disagree with that recommendation. The problem is how much the law should be changed to meet the reasonable needs of ASIO for the protection and the security of this nation. 
After a great deal of consideration the Government has approved additional powers for ASIO to enter premises, to search for records, to use listening devices and to open and inspect postal articles. This must be a cause of worry to anyone interested in civil liberties, and I hope that all of us are interested in civil liberties; but protections are provided and I think that in the circumstances they are appropriate protections. Before these powers can be exercised in any particular case the Director-General of ASIO has to make a formal request and the Minister must be satisfied that there is need for this action before he can grant a warrant. This is the appropriate power in what inevitably is a very difficult situation. 
In the hope that these discussions might be bipartisan I believe that the 1 1 paragraphs in the amendment moved by the Opposition must be seriously dealt with. They have been put forward in good faith, although sometimes they are misguided or based on misunderstandings. They must not merely be voted down. They must be discussed in this chamber both in the second reading stage and in the Committee stage. I intend now to deal with three of them. The first paragraph I would like to deal with is paragraph (c) which reads:  that the responsible Minister be fully informed by the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation with respect to any matter, other than the contents of files relating to particular individuals, on which he has sought information and advice; 
There is no dispute about the undesirability of the Minister being able to obtain information on the contents of files on individuals but in general the Minister has the sort of power that is asked for in paragraph (c). The limitations on the Minister's power are contained in clause 8 (2) of the Bill and we should look at them because they are relevant to whether that paragraph in the Opposition's amendment is appropriate. The DirectorGeneral is subject to the general directions of the Minister, but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General on the question of whether the collection of intelligence on any particular individual by the Organisation would or would not be justified by reason of its relevance to security. It would be quite inappropriate for the Minister to be involved in that area. We appoint a distinguished and responsible figure as head of ASIO and that is the sort of discretion that such a figure must be given without interference from political authorities. If we cannot trust him with that sort of discretion he should not be appointed in the first place. 
A second area in which the Minister is not entitled to override the opinion of the DirectorGeneral is on the question of whether the communication of intelligence concerning a particular individual is for a purpose relevant to security. I do not feel that that is an appropriate area for ministerial interference with the discretion of the Director-General. A third area where the Minister cannot override the opinion of the Director-General is in the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organisation to a Minister, department or authority of the Commonwealth. There is some confusion about the meaning of the word 'advice' in these circumstances. I am advised that the meaning of the word in these circumstances is a suggestion or recommendation given to a Minister or a department. I am assured that that is its intended meaning and if that is so, rather than it meaning the passing of information, it would be quite inappropriate for the Minister to override the opinion of the Director-General in a matter which is essentially the machinery of security. For all of those reasons, and subject to a clarification of the exact meaning of the word 'advice' in that context, I suggest that paragraph (c) of the amendment is not necessary and that the restrictions imposed on the Minister by clause 8 of the Bill are appropriate and should be accepted by this chamber. 
The second part of the Opposition's amendment with which I would like to deal is paragraph (d) which states:  that the Leader of the Opposition be fully and regularly briefed on all aspects of the operation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, including the exercise of its Special Powers under Part III, Division 2 of the Bill . . . 
Those powers include its powers of entry, its powers to use listening devices and so on. That is certainly a recommendation of the Hope report. It recommended that the Government should provide the Leader of the Opposition with a copy of the Director-General's report, but it made the proviso that this should be provided under conditions of secrecy. It would, I think, create difficulties if this were put into formal wording in the Bill itself. I am told that the Leader of the Opposition has been shown copies of the last two reports of the Director-General of ASIO under conditions of secrecy. It is suggested- I agree with the suggestion- that it is better for this to continue as a convention rather than trying to write into the legislation the conditions of secrecy to apply to the provision of the report to the Leader of the Opposition. The purpose is being achieved at the moment. I do not think that it will be helped by attempting the very difficult task of writing into the legislation security requirements for the Leader of the Opposition. 
The third part of the Opposition's amendment with which I shall deal is paragraph (j) which states:  that no person be denied notification of the existence of an adverse Security assessment made about that person . . . 
That paragraph refers, of course, to clause 37 (2) (a) of the Bill which states: 
The Attorney-General may, by writing under his hand delivered to the Director-General, certify that he is satisfied that- 
the withholding of notice to a person of the making of a security assessment in respect of the person is essential to the security of the nation . . . 
I do not think that if the Opposition thought seriously about this provision- obviously  Senator Evans  had not thought very seriously about it- it would suggest that such information should be released if its withholding were essential to the security of the nation. I accept the point that such occurrences would be extremely rare, but if they arose it would be absurd to give information which would do that sort of damage to the security of the nation. Therefore, I suggest that paragraph (j) of the amendment is entirely misconceived and should not be proceeded with. 
While I am talking about security matters and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation I should mention one general matter about ASIO that causes me concern. It is the sort of phobia that people have about dossiers. Many people seem to regard them in much the same way as primitive tribesmen used to regard a lock of hair held by someone else. People think that in some way the existence of dossiers can do them damage. Dossiers do not do anyone damage by their existence. The newspapers have dossiers on all of us. It is not the dossier itself that we should watch, it is the use that might be made of it. We should examine very carefully this Bill to see that we are satisfied, as I am, that no improper use can be made of dossier material collected on individuals. Any security organisation would be failing in its duty if it did not collect information that came to hand about individuals whose activities could be damaging to the security of the community. Of course, much of this information will be inaccurate or irrelevant, but among the dross there may be nuggets. A pattern of behaviour or contacts may be built up. 
No security service could possibly operate effectively without such squirrelling of information. The suggestion made quite often that no information should be included in a dossier unless it is known to be accurate is patently unworkable. I ask honourable senators to think about it. In practice it would mean that every rumour, no matter how unsubstantiated, about a person in a sensitive position would have to be investigated or else not be recorded although it might be of great significance if a pattern of behaviour developed. Investigating every such rumour would require a vast expansion of the security apparatus and would create a malicious informers' paradise, while not recording such rumours would mean an ineffective security service which would be pointless. As I have said, what is the danger of a dossier? It has no danger in itself. It is only when it is improperly released that it becomes a danger. I suppose that the dangers might be firstly that a dossier might lead to an unjustified investigation of an individual by surveillance; that its contents might be improperly released, particularly to politicians; or that it might be secretly used to cause unjustified damage in areas such as promotion or appointment of public servants or the award of passports and so on. 
The question of who might be a security threat is, of course, a subjective one. But it must be decided by someone. It would be intolerable if that decision were made by politicians. This Bill and the Act before it deliberately give this responsibility to an individual not to an organisation. It gives the responsibility to the Director-General of ASIO. I cannot see any practical alternative. It is a role which he must be trusted to perform. If we cannot trust him to perform it we should not appoint him. After all, under the new Bill the Leader of the Opposition is consulted before the Director-General is appointed. This is the only effective way to guard the guardian. 
There have been allegations in the past- I have no idea whether they are true- that ASIO has leaked information to the Press. If that were so it was grossly improper and the Bill before us very properly provides penalties and offences for members of ASIO who take such action. The Bill before us very properly makes it an offence if any member of ASIO improperly releases information to the Press. Even more of a worry than releasing information to the Press would be its improper release to politicians. The stories of President Lyndon Johnson reading Federal Bureau of Investigation dossiers on politicians to circles of cronies are horrifying. Moreover, I think we should note that this type of sleazy behaviour puts the head of a security service in a position of potential blackmail over a government. 
I will leave that. I will tell honourable senators a story about LBJ if they want to hear one. I shall have to bowdlerise it a little for the delicate ears of the Opposition. He was once asked why he did not sack J. Edgar Hoover. He replied: 'I could never do a thing like that. I would much rather have that man inside my tent spitting out than outside spitting in', or words to that effect. We must never let the situation in which a person has such power develop in this country. Again, the provisions in the Bill such as consultation with the Opposition, and the limited term for the Director-General will safeguard adequately against that situation developing. 
The Bill and the Act before it are deliberately designed to remove some aspects- essentially the personal files on individuals- from direct control by the Government. The Director-General of ASIO is one of the three officials who have some limits on responsibility to the Government. The other two officials of course are the AuditorGeneral and the Commissioner of Taxation. I am sure that everyone would be outraged if a Minister sent for an individual's tax file. The Commissioner is expected to take action in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Acts and, where necessary, his actions are subject to appropriate review. So it should be and so it will be with ASIO when this Bill is passed. In my view the main outrage of  Senator Murphy's  celebrated raid on ASIO is the thought of him leafing through raw dossiers on individuals, an action which  Mr Justice  Hope pointed out should have been resisted by ASIO. 
The question must come up: What is the appropriate review mechanism? Except in the case of appointments to or promotions in the Public Service and the issue of passports and other things in that area, such as in naturalisations, security action can be taken only through the courts. But there have been fears and allegations in the past that secret security reports have been used to the disadvantage of individuals. The Hope royal commission recommended, and the Government has accepted in this Bill, that such individuals- with the one exception I have already mentioned- must be told that there is a security objection and the security objection must be examined by an independent tribunal. This seems to me to be fair. I think the provisions in the Bill before us are adequate. 
One other matter I should like to deal with is the question of the relations with the State police force special branches. This raises important considerations. The Bill provides for ASIO, subject to directions of the Minister, to co-operate with departments, police forces and authorities of the States and also with overseas countries. I think it is both necessary and proper that there should be co-operation with State police. Security must be controlled by a national body because security knows no State boundaries. Security could be handled by a single body as is done by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in America. There are however, obvious administrative advantages in having a central organisation- ASIO- supported by special branches of State police because such branches can make economical use of the State police infrastructure. In any case, the States are reimbursed for the cost involved. What is unacceptable is for the State governments to attempt to impose political control on the use of the special branches as agents and co-operating units with ASIO. This type of political interference in individual cases has been deliberately excluded at the Federal level. It would be absurd to permit it at the State level. 
I think the special branches play a valuable role. There is no question that it is much more economic than to have ASIO doing everything throughout the country. Any security service, or any police force for that matter, necessarily involves a restriction on individual freedom in the interests of the community. In an ideal society we would not need either police or security services. We do not live in such a society and it would be absurd to permit individuals whose professed aim is to destroy our economic system to cripple our security service in the name of individual liberty, a concept in which they do not believe. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) Is Radio Australia's efficiency as the voice of the Australian nation being impaired by manning policies within the Australian Broadcasting Commission and by delays in providing transmitters to compete with ever-increasing opposition from other international broadcasting organisations. 
What is the current situation with regard to repairs to Darwin aerials. 
Are the transmitters in Darwin fully serviceable, and would repairs to aerials make the transmitters effective within a very short period. 
What impact would the restoration of the Darwin facilities have on Radio Australia 's overseas audience. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs read reports of clandestine activities having been undertaken by the South African Government's Ministry of Information, the so-called Muldergate affair, involving the payment of bribes to members of parliament, public servants and businessmen in the United States, Britain, France, West Germany, Holland, Norway and Japan, and claims that the list is not complete? Can the Minister say whether there has been any evidence of this kind of activity taking place in Australia? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that Qantas Airways Ltd, in its annual report to March 1979, showed a far higher figure than previously provided for doubtful debts? Does this mean that Qantas is planning to write off the debt of around $800,000 owed by AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd? Can the Minister confirm that Trans-Australia Airlines is also taking steps to write off the debt owed to it by AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration did not investigate the Department of Defence on the grounds that at the time- 1975- the Department was in the throes of reorganisation? Did the Royal Commission recommend that a review of the Department of Defence be conducted by an independent body after several years of experience of the new organisation? Has the Government accepted this recommendation? If so, when will the independent review be carried out, it being borne in mind that the organisation has now been in force for three years, and who will be the members of the independent review body? 
-I wish to reply to a speech made in this chamber last Tuesday by  Senator Primmer.  The purpose of  Senator Primmer's  speech was blatantly obvious. lt was to make allegations and innuendos under privilege in the hope that some ofthe mud would stick to the Victorian Liberal Government and thus improve the Australian Labor Party's electoral prospects last Saturday. 
We will come to that. 1 have delayed answering  Senator Primmer  until now because the more that is said about such a smear the more publicity it gets, which is just what its author wants. I am delighted that such smear tactics, which are of a piece with much of the Labor tactics during the Victorian election campaign, have failed. Voters are much wiser than the Labor Party realises.  Senator Primmer's  speech might be described as a primer of how to make a political smear under privilege; it is a mixture of true and false statements, wrong deductions and dishonest innuendos. Of course it was made just before an election. Perhaps truth does always overtake falsehood, but it takes a little time. I should declare at the outset that I am a director of the Statewide Building Society, which is effectively a non-profit organisation directed to providing finance for private home builders at as low a cost as possible. 
Let us turn to  Senator Primer's  speech. He said that a Geoffrey Lee Patterson had been arrested and charged with obtaining financial advantage by deception. This is true, but  Senator Primmer  omitted to mention that Patterson is not and has never been an employee ofthe Statewide Building Society.  Senator Primmer  also said that a  Mr Niall's  activities in the Statewide Building Society had been investigated by the Fraud Squad and that a report was referred to the AttorneyGeneral recommending that charges be laid.  Senator Primmer  went on to allege that the Victorian State Government had delayed laying charges against Niall until after 5 May because of possible embarrassment to the Liberal Party. 
Let us disentangle the grain of truth from the tissue of falsehood in these statements. It is true that a  Mr Niall  was discharged by the management of the Statewide Building Society for taking secret commissions. It is true, I understand, that his activities have been investigated by the Fraud Squad, with the co-operation of the management of Statewide Building Society, lt is not true that the Fraud Squad has made a report to the Victorian Attorney-General recomending that charges be laid against Niall. No such report has been made, and the Fraud Squad does not need the Attorney-General's approval to lay charges of fraud. It is not true that the Victorian Government has delayed laying charges against Niall. Not only did it not do so, it had no conceivable motive for doing so. 
To bolster a ridiculously weak case,  Senator Primmer  tried to smear by innuendo. He pointed out that one partner in the Statewide Building Society's auditors was a Liberal member of the Legislative Council. He did not mention these facts: The Liberal member was in no way involved in the audit.  Senator Primmer  quoted the auditors report for the year ended 30 June 1978. He did not mention that this was not the year of the alleged fraud. The fraud was not a fraud on the Statewide Building Society, and there is no way it could have appeared in the Society's accounts, or could be detected by any external audit. Such is the fantastically flimsy nature of  Senator Primmer's  charges. The introduction of my name, by an obvious pre-arrangement with  Senator Button,  I treat with the contempt it deserves. It was an obvious attempt to smear the Premier of Victoria by an association of names. The Board of the Statewide Building Society acted with promptness and integrity, and as soon as the activities of its employee became known he was immediately discharged. 
This whole farrago did, I suppose, achieve its desired object- a headline 'Victorian Government denies cover up'. Of course it did. There was no cover-up. It may have advantaged the Labor Party in the election. I do not know. But I do know it is typical of the sort of behaviour that has brought the Labor Party into lasting contempt. 
I am sympathetic to the purpose of the Opposition's amendment. I think it is correct to say that there is overwhelming and perhaps unanimous support for the need for an organisation such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. If there is need for such an organisation the organisation must be effective. We must also ensure that while being effective it is also law abiding. I think the Parliament itself must be so satisfied. As the Bill before us would have it, the way that the Parliament is to be satisfied that the body is law abiding is through the Attorney-General. I have no doubt that the present Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  would be diligent, thorough and honourable in his dealings with that body, but this attitude does not necessarily extend indefinately, into the future. I think that there must be some structure whereby Parliament can be really satisfied, regardless of the person holding the office of Attorney-General, that ASIO is performing as we wish it to perform. 
How we achieve this is important. Any form of judicial audit or external investigation is necessarily very disruptive to the ordinary operations of ASIO. If it is carried out by someone such as  Mr Justice  Hope, who has been closely involved with the Organisation, it can be done with a small amount of disruption. Someone completely new to the Organisation- a person who has had no previous experience of it, who is finding out how it works and investigating all the facets of its operation- would be a major disruptive influence. I think therefore that having this type of judicial audit at three-year intervals is wrong. Nevertheless I think that periodic investigations of this nature should be carried out. I suggest that a more sensible interval would be something like 10 years. I think that as the Organisation has just been restructured it would be working properly. I think that as the Attoryney-General has suggested, a type of external audit should be carried out within two or three years. I would like the Attorney-General explicitly to make quite clear again that this type of external audit will be carried out in the next three years or so and also to give serious consideration again to whether we cannot put this provision into the Act. I think that an undertaking by the Government to have periodic audits is one thing; an explicit provision in an Act is far more convincing to the Parliament. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs if it is a fact that more than 75 of the Soviet employees in the United Nations Organisation and other international organisations in Geneva are members of Russian secret intelligence organisations? Are the two individuals in charge of the United Nations Geneva personnel and conference sections both colonels in the KGB? Is one of them responsible for the recruitment of people who would, for instance, supervise elections in Namibia? Is the second in command at the Economic Commission for Europe also a known Soviet intelligence agent? Is there anything that Australia and other democratic powers can do to prevent this subversion of international organisations by the Soviet Union? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence any information on the development of Cam Ranh Bay in Vietnam as a Russian naval base? Would such a base greatly increase the ability of the Soviet Navy to deploy in the Association of South East Asian Nations region and in the eastern Indian Ocean? What is the present strength of the Soviet Navy in the Indian Ocean and how does it compare with the strength of the United States Navy in that area? 
It was rather difficult to detect from the speeches delivered by Opposition senators that the motion which we are actually debating, as moved by the Opposition, states that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's deliberate policy to allow social security and health services to decline. 
It is a rather remarkable motion. In a short sentence it makes two completely false statements: There is no such government policy and social security and health services are not in decline. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  has dealt in some detail with the way in which our social security services are being maintained and improved as the economic situation makes it possible. I wish to give a little more detail on what is going on in the health field. The criticism of the standard of health services comes rather oddly from the Australian Labor Party. When it was in government it failed to formulate a health policy which bore any relationship at all to economic facts. The Labor Party produced a scheme which proved to be extraordinarily extravagant and indulgent to the well-off and, in the process, it practically drove the Government bankrupt. Those types of services are never free; they are paid for by the taxpayer. The taxpayer could not afford the many extravagant schemes produced by the Labor Party. 
It is about time that the public realised the damage done to the country during the Labor regime. Not only did the Labor regime cause economic damage- that was bad enough- but also its mismanagement and its policies had a damaging effect on people's expectations. It produced a generation of Australian people who thought that there were such things as free lunches. That generation thought that things were provided for them by governments without their having to make any effort for themselves. I believe that that did great damage to the whole social ambience of this country. That is particularly true in the health area. When the health scheme of . the Labor Party was produced the Labor Party did not properly consider the financial circumstances of individuals. Resources were not directed as they should be directed in a proper social security or health policy, namely, to the areas of greatest need. In fact, the Labor Party's record in that area is so disastrous that I think the less its members talk about the subject the better it will be for them. Let us consider what they did. 
I will come to that in a moment. The open-ended commitment the Labor Government entered into with Medibank was associated with doctors fees increasing by nearly 60 per cent in three years. The Labor Government had open-ended cost sharing arrangements with the States. It also had a hospital development plan, of which  Senator Douglas  McClelland spoke with pride. That plan in fact poured hundreds of millions of dollars into further hospital development without any attempt being made to rationalise the growththe proper and needed growth- of the hospital system in Australia. I am delighted that  Senator Douglas  McClelland mentioned that plan because it was a perfect example of gross mismanagement and waste in a health care system. 
Let us look at what happened. In 1972-73, when the Whitlam Government came to power, health costs represented just under 6 per cent- 5.97 per cent actually- of our gross domestic product. Three years later those costs represented 7.84 per cent of our GDP. The country cannot afford that rate of increase. Since then, through careful management, we have been able to maintain health costs at about 7.85 per cent of GDP. Control of the amount of our resources which is put into health care is vital in the battle to control the national inflation rate. As  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out, the control of inflation is vital to social wellbeing. Nothing is more damaging to the retired generation- those people on social welfare- than rapidly increasing inflation rates which erode savings and destroy expectations. One of the greatest contributions that any government can make towards the social wellbeing of the people is to produce a stable currency. It is our firm commitment and our strong intention to do so. 
As has been announced, under the proposals relating to health services which will come into force on 1 September, the Government will meet all scheduled fees of more than $20. Effectively that will protect everyone against catastrophic illness. All scheduled medical fees above $20 will continue to be paid fully by the Government. Pensioners and disadvantaged people will remain covered for all their medical expenses. They will continue to pay nothing. 1 must confess, when the scheme for disadvantaged people, which left the discretion with the doctor, was introduced I was concerned that that might impose too great a strain on the medical profession. I am delighted to hear that in fact the integrity and efficiency of the medical profession are making the scheme work extremely well. 

 Senator Guilfoyle quoted some figures, which I will repeat for the information of the Senate. Since bulk billing, which is now restricted to pensioners and the disadvantaged, was changed to that system it appears that there are on average 1.4 million services a month under this scheme. A bulk billing working party has been set up to look at how the scheme is working. I am told that that committee's preliminary advice to the Minister is that it is working extremely well. This is an important way in which the Government is achieving its objective of getting the best value in health care for the dollars spent. 
Also against this background the Government has decided to ask the States to agree to an inquiry into hospital administration and hospital efficiency and productivity. We must remember that 60 per cent of our health costs go in hospital care. We have a very high utilisation of our hospitals. We have 1,600 bed days per 1,000 people per year, which can be compared with 1,207 in the United States of America, 1,100 in England and 900 in Scotland. But even with that high utilisation- thanks, in pan anyway, to the scheme mentioned by  Senator Douglas  McClelland- we have far too many hospital beds. Our utilisation of hospital beds is about 68 per cent. Worse still, the hospital beds are badly distributed. What we urgently need is a proper rationalisation of our hospital system. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to an excellent document which was circulated a few days ago and which is entitled: ' Report on Rationalisation of Hospital Facilities and Services and on Proposed New Charges- A Discussion Paper'. The document makes some points on which I think we should all ponder. I draw attention to a couple of those points. The document states: 
Studies in Australia and overseas indicate large differences in lengths of stay for the same illnesses and operations, only partially explained by social and geographical factors. 
Later the document states: 
Surveys of customary practice in Australia have shown large variations in surgery rates between different areas, even after allowing for differences in age composition. The highest rate for tonsillectomy is five times the lowest rate; there is a three-fold variation in the rates for appendicectomy and gall-bladder removal, and almost a five-fold variation in rates for removal of the womb. 
These are real problems for any health care system, and we badly need a national inquiry into how to ensure that our hospitals are properly and economically used. There never has been a national inquiry into the hospital system and it is high time that one was held. 
Our first aim must be to ensure that we do not have an excessive number of hospital beds, because they are very expensive- $150 per day per used bed. Hospital beds must also be properly distributed. We must ensure that unnecessary operations are not carried out in hospitals. We must ensure that the length of stay of our patients in hospitals is not unnecessarily long. 
Yes, we need the cooperation of the medical profession and of the hospital administrators. We must aim, in our health insurance system and health care system, to endeavour to achieve those ends. 
Private hospitals run by doctors hold about 30 per cent of the patients in hospital care. They, of course, must come within the scope of the inquiry. We must aim to ensure that first rate hospital care is available on a basis of need. This, of course, is in line with the general Government policy on health care and social welfare benefits. As a government we must be economic with community resources and at the same time provide excellent health care to all who need it, with no one denied such care because of social disadvantage. This is our aim; this is what we are achieving. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-Some weeks ago the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  made a major statement in this Parliament on Australia's defence policies. The speech was not universally well received by the media though I think most of the criticism was unjust. It is true that he had no major and dramatic equipment decisions to announce. This was almost inevitable in the present economic circumstances. But he did make a most important step forward. For the first time that 1 can remember he set out a clear list of Australia's strategic goals and related the present and planned composition of the Defence Force to those strategic goals. This is a major contribution to the informed debate on defence policy for which the Minister has called. 
It was a great disappointment that the House of Representatives was so thinly attended during this important speech and that two quorums were called. In this performance the Representatives was carrying out perhaps all too faithfully its representative function for there is no doubt that community complacency about defence is disturbingly high. Of course, this is always liable to happen in peace time. It was Kipling who wrote: 
It's Tommy this and Tommy that and chuck him out the brute. 
But it's thank you  Mr Atkins  when the guns begin to shoot. 
It is surely the responsibility of this national Parliament to keep defence in the forefront of its mind for effective national defence is the first duty of every government and we forget that at our peril. I would like to take up some of the points made by the Minister about our strategic priorities and to make some comments on them. I note with disappointment that this is, as far as I can determine, the first time anyone in either House of this Parliament has spoken on this defence statement. We have had five major changes in strategic policy since the Second World War. In the early 1950s the picture was one of global war between Russia and the Western world in which Australia's main contribution would have been to send two divisions to the Middle East- almost a replay of the early days of World War II. By the mid-1950s the spread of nuclear weapons had rendered this strategy no longer credible and the concept changed to a limited non-nuclear war with China in which we would be a contributor to a predominantly United States force. This shifted again in the early 1960s to the possibility of a local limited war in which Australia might be unsupported by major allies. This soon shifted to counter insurgency on the mainland of Asia in co-operation with allies, primarily the United States. Finally we arrived where we are now- at the so-called 'fortress Australia' concept. I believe this is a very bad term. I will return to this point in a moment. The trouble is that each of these strategic concepts required a radically different force structure and equipment. This by no means was always provided, the equipment ordered for one strategic concept arriving one or even two strategic concepts later. 
The strategic situation is surveyed by the Defence Committee for the Government and stated in a document produced every few years called Australian Strategic and Defence Policy Objectives'. I believe the country's strategic interests and policy should be capable of statement in a document of not more than three or four pages. This clear statement should not be cluttered up with tours of the diplomatic horizon. I think a strategic document should state what our strategic interests are and what threats there might be to those interests. The intelligence assessment on which the threats are based and the defence forces required should, of course, be in separate documents and should not be allowed to clutter up the clarity of our strategic appreciations. 
What are our strategic interests? We have no desire for anyone else's territory. Although we may have no axe to grind this does not mean that we have no need for an axe to wield. First of all it is in our interests that there should not be a global nuclear war. Secondly, we obviously have an interest in our territorial integrity and in controlling the use of our exclusive economic zone. Finally, as an important international trading nation we are vitally concerned in the free movement of our international trade. What are the threats to these interests and can we do anything about them? The likelihood of a global nuclear war is slight although it is significantly greater than the Department of Defence seems to think. In the 1 976 Defence White Paper it was stated that given the enormous risks from military conflict, on all rational considerations the restraints on the use of force between the two super powers and the framework of their co-operation should endure. That may be so, but wars are by no means always rational and we must think about the unthinkable. 
There is, of course, nothing effective we could do directly in the event of a nuclear war between the super powers. But anything we could do to deter such a war would have to be in our strategic interests. This is the sole justification for the communications station at North West Cape. This communications station is primarily intended to communicate with United States missile firing submarines in the Indian Ocean which are second strike weapons intended because of their invulnerability to survive a surprise attack on the United States and to be capable of inflicting unacceptable damage on the aggressor. They are obviously a very strong deterrent to such aggression and it is equally obviously in Australia's interests to increase their effectiveness. 
Apart from what we could do to prevent the outbreak of a global nuclear war we should at least think about where we might stand in the aftermath of one. This aspect was part of a major study of the defence industry by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Some alarming weaknesses were pointed out. I wish I could see signs of some of these industrial shortcomings being overcome. But so far as the composition of our Defence Force is concerned, the threat of global nuclear war should have no effect. 
Overseas trade is vital to our economy. Exports and imports are each valued at about 1 4 per cent of our gross domestic product. Compare this with 7 per cent in the United States and 10 per cent to 1 2 per cent in Japan, a country usually thought to be peculiarly dependent on overseas trade. Without our overseas trade our economy would collapse. Of course, virtually all our overseas trade is carried by sea. Over half of the tonnage of our imports is oil from the Persian Gulf. Two-thirds of the tonnage of our exports comprises bulk cargoes going to East Asia, primarily Japan. 
It may be of interest to honourable senators that, by value, only 13 per cent of our exports go to the European Economic Community and less than 8 per cent to the United States of America. From what countries do the ships come that carry this trade? In the last year for which I have figures 1976-77- only one per cent were Australian flag ships. The biggest contributors were Japan with 20 per cent of the ships, Liberia and Panama- actually mostly American owned ships- with together, 20 per cent, Britain with 14 per cent, Greece with 6 per cent and Norway, Singapore and Russia with 5 per cent each. Only one per cent were Australian flag ships. Tiny Singapore carries five times as much of our trade as we do. 
But important as this overseas trade is, it does not necessarily mean that it is threatened or that we can do anything about it if it is attacked. In what circumstances could it be threatened? The most likely is political disruption at the far end, particularly with oil. But this is an area where it would be quite unrealistic to contemplate Australian military intervention. I suppose that a non-nuclear global war in which there are submarine attacks on trade routes is just conceivable. But in such a war the obvious pressure points would be the North Atlantic, the Arabian Sea and the American hemisphere. Our area would be a negligible priority. Besides, the manifest inability of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to defend its sea communications against nuclear submarine attack makes such an attack exceptionally improbable, because it would almost inevitably escalate into a global nuclear war. I believe that the contingency is so remote and our possible contribution so negligible that it would be unjustified to design any of our defence resources specifically for this role. 
What would happen in a war between Australia and a regional neighbour in which the great powers were not directly involved? I find it very difficult to envisage a credible scenario for such a war which would involve submarine attacks on merchant shipping, either by torpedoes or by mines. Such attacks, by their very nature, are indiscriminate. In addition, we should remember that only one per cent of this trade is carried by Australian flag ships. In any case, it seems quite inconceivable that foreign ships would come here in Australian escorted convoys. They would come here either independently with lights on and flags flying displaying a sink us if you dare' attitude or they would not come here at all. This, too, seems to be a role in which the diversion in our defence effort would be unjustified. 
I will come to that in some detail in a few moments. If we really believed in the threat of a submarine attack on our overseas trade, the first step would be to increase the proportion of our trade carried in Australian flag ships. We have not done this, which surely puts the threat in its proper perspective. 
Our coastal trade is in a slightly different category. Most of it is carried in Australian flag ships, but the threat to this shipping is very slight because of the improbability of this type of warfare and the indiscriminate nature of submarine attack. Submarines would be just as unable to distinguish between Australian ships involved in interstate or intrastate traffic and neutral ships as they would be able to distinguish them from other Australian ships. For these reasons I do not believe that any special diversion of our defence effort to preparations for this kind of warfare would be justified although, of course, if the unexpected did occur and if such a conflict did break out, the forces provided for other purposes would have to do what they could. 
So far I have deprecated the necessity for defence preparations to meet three of our strategic requirements. I should like to turn now to two areas where defence preparations are appropriate. The first is the defence of our territorial integrity. Any rational assessment would have to conclude that no such threat could arise while the island chain to our north was firmly held in friendly hands. This island chain is our strategic shield. One of the most foolish strategic statements ever heard was that made by a former Labor Minister for Defence to the effect that our strategic frontier is our coastline. On the contrary, a prudent strategist does not wait until the enemy is on the beaches but acts to prevent a situation developing out of which any threat could arise. Therefore, it is our first priority to ensure that, by diplomatic means, backed, where appropriate, by military force, the archipelago to our north remains in friendly hands. 
No. Vietnam is not part of the archipelago to our north. What sort of military force would be appropriate? We would be mad to attempt to impose a government on any of our neighbours and we would certainly fail if we tried. But the Governments in our neighbourhood are fragile and there are strong centrifugal tendencies. It may well be desirable for us to help a friendly government to retain effective control of its territory. Whether we would want to do so would depend on circumstances, including our being invited by the government we would be supporting. But it is an option that should be open to the Government and the Defence Force must have the necessary capability. We would not need large forces, particularly land forces. The last thing we should be involved in is a prolonged and large scale land campaign. Relatively small forces rapidly available could be decisive. For the same reason the operational environment would be relatively unsophisticated. 
But what happens if part or all of the island chain to our north is in hostile hands and is held by a government which is a client of one of the major communist powers? Then our whole strategic situation would be changed for the worse. We would have to increase sharply our defence preparations. The danger would not be immediate. Invading this country is not an easy task and any potential enemy would need to undertake a prolonged build-up. We should ensure that our defence infrastructure and Defence Force are maintained in a state in which we could achieve the necessary expansion of our defences in the available time if this crisis arose. Our aim should be to deter such an invasion and to make it a very unattractive proposition for a potential invader. This is certainly within our power. 
I turn finally to the question of the control of our exclusive economic zone which, I point out, is an area nearly as large as continental Australia. There are three separate aspects of this control. Relevant parts of the area must be kept under surveillance. We must be able to identify contacts that are made and, where necessary, we must be able to make arrests. The problems are only partially to do with defence. Other aspects more properly concern immigration or customs. But it would be absurd to continue to try to separate them. The Defence Force should undertake the whole task. At the same time, it should be recognised that equipment acquired by the Defence Force for this purpose, which has no wartime value and operations conducted for this purpose which have no training value, should not be funded from the Defence vote. 
Before turning to the composition of forces which would result in this strategic analysis, there are some general observations I should like to make. The first point is that we must provide adequate resources to keep the regular forces we have in a state of operational readiness. If we fail to do this there is no way that we can retain morale in a professional force. The first-rate will leave and when a crisis comes or there is a need for rapid expansion, the leadership will be in the hands of the second-rate. The process will be imperceptible but inexorable. To update an old saw, we would be cent wise and dollar foolish if we economised on the legitimate training requirements of our existing forces. We must avoid this at all costs. Secondly, we are spending too little of our available defence resources on new capital equipment. The situation has improved somewhat in recent years from a deplorable low of  4.8  per cent in 1974-75 to 1 1.9 per cent last financial year and an estimated 12.9 per cent this year. 
I said that 12.9 per cent of the defence vote is spent on capital equipment. It is to be hoped that, as a result of the increased defence expenditure announced recently by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  this figure wil rise still further, for it is still very low. We should be trying to keep our recurrent expenditure- of which by far the largest part is manpower costs- as low as possible, so as to allow for expenditure on long-lead capital items. 
Previously I have commented on the need to restrain the number of public servants in the Department of Defence. In recent years their salaries have represented 13 to 16 per cent of total defence costs, and are estimated to be $343m this year. We must also watch very carefully Defence Force manpower costs to which some 35 per cent of the vote is devoted. We must be constantly vigilant to see that the expensive manpower which we keep on the full time payroll really needs to be kept constantly available; whether its role could not adequately be performed in other, more economical ways, such as by the use of cadre forces. 
Thirdly, there is the question of lead time. We are all familiar with some aspects of the problem. Put a man and a women together and 1 8 years later you may have a soldier. Our new equipment has nearly as long a lead time and, at the moment, a not much higher chance of arriving. The major new equipment that we plan now will not arrive until the mid-1980s and must remain in service well into the 2 1st century. We must think a long way ahead in regard to our requirements and, as far as possible, choose equipment which is capable of substantial development during its lifetime. 'Dumb vehicles carrying smart weapons' is a popular current cliche. I think that it goes too far. We need efficient basic ships and aircraft but what  they carry is at least  equally important and the basic vehicle, ship, aircraft or tank must be so designed as to be capable of easy modification to carry successive generations of equipment. Fortunately at the moment, largely through the use of micro-computers and other miniaturisation there is a downward trend in regard to the size and weight of equipment. This makes it much easier to update the equipment in a ship, aircraft or tank during its lifetime, but it is not a trend that can continue indefinitely. At the moment we are lucky. 
My fourth general remark is that we must beware of the automatic replacement syndrome, the idea that because we have an aircraft carrier, air superiority fighters or tanks, they should automatically be replaced when they reach the end of their useful lives. It is bad enough to have to plan equipment a quarter of a century ahead but it is fantastic to be committed to such equipment in perpetuum. What we need in regard to new equipment is to look at each proposal in terms of its future, not its past, requirement. Perhaps it might be described as zero-based equipment budgeting. 
My fifth general remark concerns what we need to keep up with what is called the state of the art. This is sometimes used in explanation, or justification, of the purchase of the most expensive equipment. It is true that providing equipment is one way of keeping up with the state of the art, but it can be enormously expensive, and it is not the only way of achieving that end. May I give one instance. Between the world wars Britain, keeping up with the state of the art, kept on being a tank force. Under the Versailles Treaty Germany was forbidden to have tanks and was forced to rely on theory, some work with dummy tanks and some practical trials with Russian cooperation, until six years before the outbreak of the Second World War. Yet, by the time of the Battle of France in 1 940, the Germans had built up a tank force which, although numerically smaller than the combined forces of Britain and France, was so incomparably more efficient and better handled that it won an overwhelming victory. Of course, if we must have forces available on short notice we must have them in existence, but if it is to be merely a matter of keeping up with the state of the art against a possible future requirement, it may be preferable to second the relatively small number of personnel involved for service with the relevant forces of our friends. There would be no difficulty about this. They would certainly learn a lot and it would certainly be much cheaper. 
My sixth general point concerns the danger of over-sophistication of our equipment. If we are not careful we will finish with a tiny number of the most sophisticated version of each type of equipment. Certainly, the way the staff system works, coupled with the desire to keep up with the state of the art, makes this extremely probable, but over-sophistication is wasteful of resources which could be used more beneficially in other areas. It breaches one of the principles of war, economy of force. It will be difficult to exercise control over this, but the Government must be prepared to approve concepts which might limit the complexity of the environment in which our Defence Force might have to operate. It will not be easy. It will require courage. It is fatally easy to say 'Let us get the best and no one can blame us,' or 'Remember the Wirraways over Rabaul'; but risks must be run in peace, as in war, and governments must have the courage to make difficult decisions. 
Finally, and most importantly, we must shape our forces round the tasks that we might have to perform, and would be able to perform on our own. By that 1 mean without major allies. This necessarily limits the potential conflicts in the terms of both scale and sophistication. If we design our forces for these limited roles, they will be optimised for that purpose. If a larger conflict, beyond our capacity to deal with on our own, breaks out, our forces, though perhaps not ideal, could still make a useful contribution to an allied force. We must put first things first, and for our Defence Force the first thing is to be able to cope with the things that it might have to do on its own. 
Periodically, the Department of Defence produces a paper called 'The Defence Force Capability Guidance Paper'. This is, of course, highly classified, but as a basis for argument I should like to put forward my views on what the Defence Force capability should be. Bearing in mind the principles that I have advanced, what sort of Defence Force would we require? Looking at our Army first, the chief requirement is to have rapidly available forces of the commando type- air or helicopter portable. They would not need to be too heavily provided with supporting arms. Operations that would require prolonged, heavy support, we should avoid at all cost. It would seem to me that if we had an army which could provide six commandoes and the Special Air Services regiment-- 
It is a unit of British origin of about 650 men, designed for limited operations. It is lightly equipped. A typical commando has about 20 four-ton trucks, 50 Land 
Rovers and six 105 mm guns. It is moved by helicopter and is very lightly equipped, but is extremely effective in its role. Six such commandoes, plus the well known SAS regiment, ready at short notice would be adequate to  meet  our needs for this type of operation. I do not believe that, for this type of conflict a formed division would ever be appropriate. 
How large an army would we need to provide an operational force of such strength? It might be worth looking at the example of the British Royal Marines. They have four commandoes and a commando logistic unit, each with 650 men; a light artillery regiment of 400 men which provides a battery for each commando; the equivalent of a divisional headquarters; and minor units, such as raiding forces numbering 140 men and permanent ship's detachments numbering 300 men. All are immediately available for operations. All of this is provided from a total Royal Marines strength of 8,300 men. I do not want to go too far with the comparison. For instance, the Royal Marines have no significant engineer or signals units but a critical look at our Regular Army manpower would be in order. 
Of course, our Regular Army would also have to provide the nucleus for the expansion that would be needed if the archipelago to our north, our shield, fell into hostile hands. In these circumstances, the main basis for expansion would have to be the Army Reserve, the citizen forces. But at the moment there would be no justification for providing, against a hypothetical requirement, more than an Army Reserve cadre. This cadre must be efficient, properly equipped and with a clear concept of its role. The Regular Army contribution would be to have equipment and skills that could not otherwise be provided in the time scale. These Regular Army forces, I believe, should be critically examined. We should look realistically at the value of a local token unit and consider the alternative, which I mentioned before, of seconding key men to fully operational allied units. Of course, this approach would not be appropriate in some areas because of long lead times. 
Australia should now build up a proper communications infrastructure. I am delighted that the Government has commenced this task. In other areas a local token unit might be extremely wasteful. A tank force based in Victoria is not learning anything about the defence of northern Australia. It would be better off in Timbuktu. A further point is that the role of the Army in the event of a significant invasion threat would not be to line the coast in a sort of cordon which Napoleon once described as being effective only against smugglers. The Army's role would be to be so mobile that it could get to the critical point before the crisis. As one nineteenth century American general put it, it would be a case of getting there firstest with the mostest. A battalion in position before an attack is more valuable than a division lumbering up a month later. Such mobility has other vital tactical effects. It forces a potential enemy invading force to concentrate, probably alerting our intelligence and making the invading force vulnerable to our maritime strike forces. Of these, by far the most important are submarines. An effective submarine force could make an invasion of Australia a very uninviting prospect, provided our Army was mobile enough to compel that invasion force to concentrate. 
What size Regular Army does what I have said suggest we need now? At the moment the Regular Army is just under 32,000 strong. This strength is largely based on a document prepared some years ago, called the FarrandsHassett report. This actually recommended an Army strength of 38,000, but anguished complaints by the other Chiefs of Staff and subsequent government decisions have brought it down to its present strength. The report is a very odd document. It is not based on any strategic requirement. The Army was merely asked what size it thought it ought to be. I am sure the Chiefs of Staff of the Navy and the Air Force would welcome such a question from the Government about their services. The trouble is that even with this Regular Army of 32,000 we have a surprisingly small effective output. According to a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we can expect only one immediately available infantry battalion out of a total strength of 32,000 men. A task force of three battalions might be available after two or three months. This would require considerable cross-posting. Comparing this with the Royal Marines, four commandoes- which are about the same size as our present battalions- can be immediately available out of a total strength of 8,300. A radical look at the necessary Army manpower on the lines that I have suggested is in order. 
What about the Navy, apart from the submarine force designed to deter invasion? I suggest that the Navy should not waste its time and effort in planning for an Australian re-run of the Battle of the Atlantic. For a more realistic operationthat of supporting a friendly power in our neighbourhood- the Navy's task should be, firstly, to have an amphibious landing force. This type of force arriving by helicopters and landing craft has the great advantage that it does not require the use of an airfield and it has much stronger supporting arms than a paratroop assault. An amphibious force also has the advantage that it can lurk for prolonged periods just over the horizon, ready to intervene at very short notice if required. On the other hand, it does have the limitation that good intelligence and prompt government decisions are required if the amphibious force is to be in the right place at the right time. 
It seems to me that our present amphibious force- six heavy landing craft with one 6000- tonne heavy lift ship, the  Tobruk,  building, and with the training ship  Jervis Bay,  the former  A ustralian Trader,  as a personnel and vehicle carrier- is nearly right, but we really need a second heavy lift ship. A sister ship to the  Tobruk  would fill the gap. I understand that the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science is hoping to acquire a ship of similar characteristics to the  Tobruk  for the resupply of our Antarctic bases. Perhaps a combined approach from the Department of Defence and the Department of Science might produce a vessel which would meet the Antarctic Division's requirements and would also be available in a defence emergency. 
The second role of the Navy would be to provide fire support if required by the amphibious force and to interdict seaborne traffic in the area. When the three FFGs and the 14 patrol boats are added to the existing fleet we shall be adequately provided, although it must be said that the FFG is a very expensive way of getting two helicopters- which are the ship's only relevant output- to the scene of action. The ship's magnificent anti-submarine equipment, which is designed for the defence of North Atlantic convoys, and the Harpoon long range anti-ship missile are not very relevant to the type of operation about which I am talking. It will not often be useful to fire a $lm missile at a suspect fishing boat at a range of 60 miles. I find it very difficult to believe that the FFGs are cost effective for their likely roles for us. I hope we do not order any more. I hope that future destroyers, which will be needed as existing ones reach the end of their lives in the 1980s, will be designed more precisely for the sort of role about which I have been talking. The DDL design, as it was about halfway through its tragic life before its collapse through its own weight and cost, would seem suitable, lt should be a fast, long range ship of about 2,500 tons carrying a 5-inch gun and a helicopter and with a small crew of 130. Also, it should be built in Australia. 
I mentioned a moment ago that Australia has on order 14 new patrol boats of the Fremantle class. They have been in the news recently because of the gun that is to be fitted to them. As a matter of fact, I do not think they need a gun at all for the sort of role in which they are to be employed. A machine gun would be perfectly adequate for their peacetime role. If it is thought necessary for decorative purposes to have a gun, I suppose one might as well have a cheap 40mm World War II gun, even though in my view it would be almost totally useless. It may be ornamental, but it is of no use. It is a high velocity anti-aircraft gun, unstabilised, and in those ships one could not hit the figurative haystack at 40 paces with one of those guns. Nevertheless, if one wants a gun that looks good, this one is all right as long as one recognises that it has no effective use. Come an emergency, we must have plans to fit a proper anti-aircraft armament to these ships. In their peacetime role they do not need such a gun. I do not disagree with the decision to save money in that way, but I think the Department of Defence was wrong in the way it kept prime contractors tendering up to the last minute, involving a considerable amount of their resources in tendering for a project which was subsequently cancelled. We have done this too often. If one keeps on doing it one loses credibility with tenderers and will be unable to get suitable offers for equipment in the future. 
What about the aircraft carrier about which  Senator Tate  asked me? I must say that the Navy is wasting its time if it puts forward a replacement for the  Melbourne  as necessary for the defence of merchant ships against submarines. The contingency is remote and if it did arise the survivability of the carrier would be very doubtful. 
It is one use. I am coming to a second possible use. Certainly in that role I do not think we could possibly justify a replacement for the  Melbourne,  for the reasons 1 have stated. The contingency is remote and I do not think it would be very effective, anyway. One could possibly justify such a ship as a simple platform for STOL aircraft to support the amphibious force in conditions where the submarine threat, by the very nature of the operation, would be slight or negligible. I think there is a possible case there, but it is a highly marginal one. 
I would have to say that you have expressed my views fairly well. I am far from persuaded that we need another carrier. I can just see a possible role for it, but I think it would be very hard to justify. Before I leave the Navy, I must mention its mobility. We have vast distances to cover and a destroyer needs to refuel every three or four days. If we are not to waste most of our ships on transit to and from the operational area, we have a critical need for more mobile afloat support. At the moment we have one tanker- the  Supply.  She is old and a replacement is planned. I think we urgently need two such replacements. 
What about the Air Force? At the moment we have three squadrons of Mirage fighters, two squadrons of F 1 1 1 strike aircraft, two squadrons of Hercules medium range transports, one and a half squadrons of Caribou tactical transports, three and a half squadrons of tactical transport helicopters, and two squadrons of Orion maritime reconnaissance aircraft, apart from training and support aircraft. On the whole the Royal Australian Air Force seems well equipped for the strategic scenario that I have outlined. What we do need now, in addition to greatly improved medium range transport, is an improved tactical strike capacity. This will have to be associated with in-flight refuelling. The targets would not be of the highest defensive capability. If I could use an analogy from the Air Force's most recent operational experience, we should assume we require to strike South Vietnam not Hanoi. Although we should not underestimate the likelihood of the spread of fairly modern weaponswitness the recent use of infra-red guided weapons in Zimbabwe- we should not assume that we would have to attack the really tough ones. The necessary strike aircraft and their weapons could thus be of lower order of complexity and expense. 
Any possible tactical fighter force aircraft would inevitably have a mix of the qualities required for air-to-air combat, tactical strike, close ground support and maritime strike. I believe we should choose one from the long range tactical and ground support end of the spectrum rather than the air-to-air end, and I am glad the TFF evaluation seems to be heading in that direction. Of course, if our strategic shield to our north were broken, our TFF requirements would change radically. We would then have an urgent need for air-to-air and maritime strike capability. There are great advantages in having a single type of aircraft in the tactical fighter force. Whether the aircraft we now select would be adequate for these other roles- of course differently armed and equipped- would depend on many things, not least on when the requirement arose. It may never arise, and we should cross bridges when we come to them. There are merits in patience. Perhaps I could give one historical example of what I mean. If the Royal Air Force had gone in for a crash expansion when Churchill first urged it in 1 934, the RAF would have needed to put obsolescent bi-plane fighters into mass production, and in 1940 would have been technically far inferior to the Luftwaffe. By holding off for a couple of years the RAF was able to put into production the Spitfires and Hurricanes which won the Battle of Britain. I repeat: There is sometimes merit in patience. 
The other requirement of the Air Force during the next decade is for a new trainer, lt is vital to the survival of the Australian aerospace industry that these aircraft should be built and, if possible, designed here. I am glad to see that the Department of Defence apparently accepts this point in its planning. So much for our immediate equipment needs. I do not want to develop the requirements for control of our exclusive economic zone, for most of them have little or nothing to do with defence- control of fishing, illegal immigration or smuggling for instance. For many of these, diplomacy will be more important than the Defence Force. Stop them leaving the far end rather than trying to detect and catch them at this end. The Government and the community will have to decide how much they are prepared to spend on these purposes. Detecting and intercepting low-flying aircraft carrying drugs, flying into disused airfields in Northern Australia, for instance, would be extremely difficult and expensive. 
As I said before, although I think the Defence Force would be the most suitable body to carry out the Government's policy in these matters and that the Defence Force must contribute what it can to this task this should not be at the expense of the training of the Defence Force for its prime role- the defence of the country- but it can contribute a lot. The Defence Force is intended for a role that is on the whole, very different, and the use of its complex equipment for such relatively simple tasks might not be cost effective. But if it is necessary to provide additional relatively simple equipment- ships or aircraft- which would not have a real defence value although they should be operated by the Defence Force, the funds should not come from the Defence vote. We would be deceiving ourselves and the public, if we allowed our Defence vote to be whittled away for non-defence purposes. Our Defence vote is low enough, in all conscience. At the moment we are spending 2.7 per cent of our gross domestic product on defence. This might be compared with 5 per cent in Britain, 6 per cent in the United States of America, and about 1 3 per cent in Russia. Even with the recent increases announced by the Prime Minister- very welcome though they are- our defence expenditure will not rise noticeably above 2.7 per cent of GDP. Of course, the restraints that I have proposed for public servants and in regular Army strength would release more funds for capital equipment and defence infrastructure- perhaps $200m a year- but this will not be enough. We live in a very uncertain world, which recent events in Iran and South East Asia have only dramatised. Our world is not only uncertain; it is unpredictable. Someone recently said that, of the last sixty wars Britain had been involved in, fifty-eight had not been predicted. I do not know whether this is right, but I do not think we are able to do much better. 
Before I finish, I want to say something about our defence organisation at the top. I have previously explained at length what I think is wrong. Perhaps it could be summarised best by saying that the Department of Defence is not so much a command or administrative headquarters, as an enormous debating society. As I have said, I believe it needs fundamental restructuring. This will not be achieved by internal review. What is needed is a major external review, as recommended by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. This review should be conducted by someone of adequate experience and prestige, so that there would be a reasonable chance of the recommendations being implemented. I believe that such a review is now urgent. 
If we are not to have a substantial increase in defence spending- and one cannot be overoptimistic about this in the near future- we must see that we do get value for our valuable defence dollar. This implies not only more efficient central administration, but also political consistency in our strategic aims. The Opposition cannot reasonably be involved in individual equipment decisions for which the Government and its advisers must accept responsibility. It should be possible- it must be possible- to reach bipartisan agreement on the broad thrust of our strategic policy and the consequent force structures. This should be the great task of this Parliament. 
I believe this is not a time of night or point in the session for long speeches despite the example of  Senator Evans  who has just concluded his speech and who seems to believe that the endless repetition of the tendentious is a substitute for rational debate. I have three worries about this legislation that I would like to state briefly. 
The first is this: I am concerned about the thrust of the early retirement proposals. The Public Service in this country has become a pacesetter in industrial conditions. We have a present and a growing problem of a limited work force supporting a growing number of retired people. At the moment the proportion of retired people to those in work or of working age is about one in seven. In ten years it will be one in six. I think we must be very wary of the way in which we encourage people to opt out of the work force early. I think this is a right, once given, which is going to be almost impossible to take away. Insofar as the Public Service is a pace-setter for the rest of our industrial and commercial life, it is a step which I think we will regret. The United States of America has gone in the opposite direction. The retiring age in some States of the United States has been lifted to allow people to continue working after the age of 65. That, I think, is going to become a trend of increasing importance. I regret a step taken in the opposite direction by this Government. 
The second point that concerns me is the attitude of the Australian Labor Party, or at least some of its members, that this is something new. When we are looking at this Bill we should compare it with the present provisions with regard to redeployment and compulsory retirement, or what I would like to call, quite bluntly, sackings. Section 20 of the Public Service Act says this: 
If at any time the Board finds that a greater number of officers of a particular classification is employed in any Department or Branch of a Department than is necessary for the efficient working of that Department or Branch, any officer whom the Board finds is in excess may be transferred to such other office of equal classification and salary in the Service as the officer is competent to fill, and if no such office is available the officer may be transferred to an office of lower classification and salary but if no office is available for the officer the Board may retire him from the Service. 
That section was last amended in 1973 by the Whitlam Labor Government. That is the provision which  Senator Evans  correctly describes as being an Act of the Labor Government which is a blunt and clumsy instrument. Our task is to make it less blunt and less clumsy. 
On the second issue, compulsory retirement or sackings, section 67 ( 1 ) of the Public Service Act says this: 
If an officer appears to the Board or the Chief Officer to be inefficient or incompetent or unfit to discharge or incapable of discharging the duties of his office efficiently, the Board may, after report from the Chief Officer, and after investigation into the circumstances, retire the officer from the Service from a date to be specified by the Board, or may transfer him to some other office, with salary appropriate to such other office. 
That section too was introduced by the Whitlam Government and it too was correctly described by  Senator Evans  as being a clumsy and blunt instrument. There is nothing new in these provisions. They have been in the Public Service Act for years. What we are now doing is ensuring that when they are appropriately used the people concerned will have the right of" appeal and will receive proper financial compensation. 
What this Bill does is give public servants in these categories more rights than they had before. Incidentally, when one talks about sackings or compulsory retirements one should compare the situation in the Public Service with that in private industry. The general conditions of the Public Service are now probably better than those in private industry. A person working in private industry generally can be sacked with no notice at all. This is not the case in the Public Service. Not only do people over 55 receive the appropriately graded supenannuation but also they receive a lump sum payment, which in the case of a man of 55 who has been compulsorily retired amounts to 10 months of his salary. This is a very substantial benefit. 
He probably does not have to. He has a substantial pension plus 10 months salary. 
Members of the Defence Force do not get a golden handshake. They get a retirement benefit along the same lines as the Commonwealth superannuation which the Commonwealth public servants will get. 
Senate HAMER- They can go back into the work force if they choose. By the way, we are dealing with quite different things. The Defence Force Retirement Benefits Scheme is designed to allow for the very early retirement of Service officers and to compensate them for the positions they might have reached outside the Defence Force if they had not joined it in the first place. It is a supplement to the incomes they might reasonably expect to get in private industry. Here we are talking about people who probably will retire totally from the work force if they are 55. They do not do too badly. 
By the way, from my discussion with the Public Service it is quite clear that the Public Service representatives accept the necessity in appropriate cases for sackings or compulsory retirement. They had no coherent arguments against such a provision which we all know has been in the Public Service Act for many years. I think the provisions in the present Bill are sound in essence. I have worries about the adequacy of the appeals proceedings in some areas. After about six months experience I would welcome a studyprobably it would be best carried out by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations- into the working of the appeals proceedings in this area to see whether they are really meeting fairly the proper needs of justice and the Public Service. 
I doubt if anyone will suffer. This Bill is merely a verification that no one is suffering. One does one's best which I think this Bill does. But I would like verification, after the Bill has been in operation for about 6 months, that it is performing as we think it will perform. 
The third of my worries relates to the much discussed clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii), which permits retirement for what is nicely described as 'any other prescribed reason. ' An amendment to this clause was proposed in the House of Representatives. I do not know whether a similar amendment will be moved in the Senate tonight. It was incomplete because it did not deal with the aspect of retirement for inefficiency. Perhaps any such amendment that is moved in the Senate tonight will deal with it. Any clause which does not deal with it is incomplete. 
I would like to see the reasons for these retirements set out in the principal Act. I do not understand- I have not yet been satisfied by anyone- why it is necessary or desirable that they be prescribed by regulation. I think that they should be in the principal Act. I would have supported an amendment to that effect- in addition to the one raised in the House of Representatives concerning retirement for inefficiency- but for the fact that last Tuesday Public Service employees called a strike. It is intolerable that the Government or this Parliament should yield to that sort of pressure from its servants. Nevertheless, I do not think that on a critical issue such as this the scrutiny that would be given by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee would be adequate. As I think all honourable senators are aware, that Committee, by its charter, looks not at the desirability of particular regulations but merely at whether they are within power. Regulations on this subject should automatically come before this Parliament for debate. Therefore, when any regulations made under clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii) come, as they will before the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, I shall move for their disallowance, whether I agree with their content or not, so that they may be debated by the Senate before they are enforced. 
It is true that there will be a period during which the previous regulations will be applicable, but if they are then disallowed by this Parliament it will at least import to them justice or fairness. As I said at the outset, I would prefer the reasons to be inserted in the Act in the first place. The only reason that I am not prepared to follow that course is the industrial action that was taken by the employees of the Government and the Parliament. However, I will ensure that any regulations on the subject that are introduced by the Government will ultimately come before this Parliament for debate. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the announcement by the Prime Minister of a Government decision to form a National Australia Day Committee. Can the Minister say what progress has been made in setting up this Committee, what its role will be and what its method of operation will be? In particular, can he say what its relations will be with existing Australia Day councils in the States and Territories and the Federal Australia Day Council? 
I think  Senator Georges  's motion is quite inappropriate. This is a report from the Standing Orders Committee and we cannot amend a report from the Standing Orders Committee. We can express that we do not agree with it, but we cannot amend its report to us. I entirely agree with the  President  that noting it is probably adequate in the circumstances. If, in the future the Senate does not feel it has adequate information on the Estimates, the remedy of the Senate is quite simple; we do not pass the Estimates until we have adequate information. That is the ultimate power that we have. In the circumstances, to try to amend a report from the Standing Orders Committee is absurd. What we ought to do, I think, is to note it. 1 am sure honourable senators will find in practice that the effect on the Public Service will be salutary. 
-I support the recommendation- not that I think this Standing Order is a very good one, but it is better than nothing. It is disappointing, but not surprising, that although the Standing Order has been in force since 16 August 1 978- a little more than a year- it has not been used. It is very unlikely that such a standing order will be used very much because, while a Government has a majority in the Senate it will normally be most reluctant to refer Bills to committees, unless either they are Bills that it does not care about very much, or there is an incipient revolt in its ranks. Even if it does refer a Bill to a committee, the defects of the present Standing Order will prevent a very effective examination of the Bill. Clause 5 of the Standing Order obliges the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committee to follow, as far as possible, the procedures of a Committee of the Whole, and denies it the right to call outside witnesses, other than departmental officers or the Minister in charge of the Bill. Thus, the effectiveness of a committee which examines a Bill will be very limited indeed. For that reason, I do not think that this Standing Order is very effective, useful, or likely to be much used. 
One Bill already is before a committee. This Standing Order was not used so it did not get there by this procedure. I refer to the Freedom of Information Bill. Because we were not confined by such procedures we have been able, I believe, to conduct a very effective examination of the Bill, which I remind the Senate was very largely produced by the Public Service. Although I do not want to pre-empt our report I believe that, if adopted, it will result in a very much better Bill than would have been the case if it had not been possible to examine the Bill in the open way we did because we were not confined by the Standing Order. 
I am supporting the Standing Order. As I said at the outset, it is better than nothing, but clause 5 appears to limit very much freedom of examination of a Bill, freedom which I believe is both desirable and necessary. I shall not, for obvious reasons, elaborate on all of the other considerations that I think should apply to the referring of Bills to committees. That is a separate subject. Also, there is already before the Senate a motion by  Senator Rae  that will give effect to those matters. As 1 said at the outset, this is a very limited Standing Order but, as  Senator 
Peter Baume has just pointed out, it is much better than nothing. For that reason, I support it and hope that the Government will see fit to use it in the coming year. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen the report concerning a medical practitioner who falsely bulk-billed Medibank for more than $ 1 7,500? Is it not a fact that he did not go to gaol for this offence but was instead fined a mere $5,200? Does the Minister regard this fine as equitable when one considers the large incomes that are earned by medical practitioners and also the fact that another medical practitioner who defrauded Medibank of only $236 was gaoled for three years? Will the Minister consider a tightening of the laws concerning the defrauding of Medibank by medical practitioners, including the bringing of fines into a realistic relationship with their incomes? Finally, is there any professional disciplinary body which can take further action in such cases? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) How many laden oil tankers have travelled inside the Barrier Reef each year from 1974 to 1979 and what was the average tonnage of oil carried by each. 
How many cases have there been of oil spillage, and when did each occur. 
Arc similar figures available for the area within 200 miles to seaward of the Barrier Reef; if not what are the estimated figures. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a report regarding a tax plan providing superannuation benefits which has been developed by the Australian Association of Surgeons? Is it a fact that a loophole exists which would admit the legality of such a plan? Is it a fact that such a scheme would mean a loss of government revenue of the order of $2 8 m annually? Is the lack of superannuation and similar benefits one of the main arguments for the very high fee-for-service charged by medical practitioners and their consequent very large incomes? Would it not be desirable to encourage the provision of superannuation and similar benefits, provided there was a corresponding substantial drop in the fees charged by medical practitioners receiving such benefits and providing such a fee drop was enforceable? Would not such a trade-off benefit both the medical profession and the community? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that in the 1979-80 Budget estimates of revenue are conservative and that no allowance was made for increases in the price of crude oil and thus the increased revenue generated by the crude oil and liquefied petroleum gas levies? Does the Minister agree that, bearing in mind the fact that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increased its prices by 35 per cent in the first half of 1979, we could expect rises in OPEC prices in 1 979-80? Does the Minister agree that the likely increase would result in a tax revenue of about $300m and decrease the domestic deficit to $600m, a reduction of some 30 per cent? What would be the economic consequences of a lower deficit, particularly on interest rates? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
What are: 
the makes; 
the date of supply: and 
the estimated date of replacement, of cars at each Australian Overseas Mission in countries with righthand* drive motorcars. 
* Right-hand drive motor cars has been interpreted to mean vehicles which arc driven on the left hand side of the road as is the case in Australia. 
I do not think that the recent debate by the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the mining and export of uranium should pass unnoticed by this Parliament. The subject is important and the ACTU itself is influential and, one hopes, responsible. The report of the debate is fascinating. All the old misconceptions, distortions and misrepresentations v/ere duly trotted out. Bob Hawke, alone of the major participants, emerged with his integrity intact. One cannot help but admire his honesty and forthrightness. Of course, he is often wrong; but he was not on this issue. At least he says what he thinks. It is not surprising that he would not be welcomed by some members opposite. He might make them face up honestly to a few key issues. 
In view of the prejudices and plain ignorance that dominated the ACTU debate, it is not surprising that the proposal to lift the bans on uranium were defeated. Some 38 per cent of the delegates voted for lifting the bans which is far less than the national attitude as shown by the latest poll. Almost twice as many people are in favour of exporting uranium as are opposed to it. Actually the figure was 54 per cent to 32 per cent in a poll taken straight after the Three Mile Island accident. The South Australian voters last Saturday hammered home the point. In the poll, the failure of the State Labor Government to develop the Roxby Downs uranium deposits was a major issue, and the result was a decisive rejection of the Labor Party's attitudes. 
The ACTU decision itself is not all that important. The unions directly involved have too much sense and too much at stake to take any notice of it, but it does create the dangers of inter-union strife which is always very damaging to the community. Besides, it is always embarrassing to see an important body like the ACTU make a damn fool of itself. I should make it clear that the present issue is not the building of nuclear power stations in Australia. Our cheap coal resources make it most unlikely that nuclear power will be economically competitive here within the foreseeable future. Of course, coal power generation has its disadvantages. Coal, like all fossil fuel but unlike nuclear power, gives off carbon dioxide. No one knows the consequences of the steady rise in the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere except that the consequences are not likely to be good. This is a world wide problem and Australian power generation is only a small contributor. It is a problem that the world will soon have to face up to. 
Our immediate issue is whether we should mine, mill and export our very rich deposits of uranium. The advantages are not seriously in dispute. There will be jobs, probably 5,000 for miners and perhaps 50,000 more supporting them. There will be export income, probably about $ 1,000m a year by the mid-1980s. This export earning will then be a very valuable offset to the heavy oil import bill we will inevitably have by that time. Without it we would be in serious economic difficulties on our balance of payments. To leave our uranium in the ground, as some would have us do, would deprive our children of their birthright. The Labor Party should study the parable of the Talents. 
If the advantages are so obvious, how can any rational person be opposed? So far as the dangers to the people of" Australia are concerned, there has been a feeble and absolutely false attempt to paint uranium mining as dangerous. In fact, it is one of the safest of mining operations. It is far safer, for instance, than the underground mining alternative power source, coalabout 100 times safer. The recent accident in the Appin colliery when 14 miners were killed was a tragedy of a type unfortunately not uncommon in the coal mining industry. But imagine the outcry there would have been from the lunatic fringe if such casualties had occurred in a uranium mine. There have been some attempts which I cannot believe are made honestly to take figures of injuries suffered in the past in underground uranium mining and suggest that these can be applied to our present and proposed uranium mines, all of which are open cut. This is dishonest nonsense. Apart from the special risks of any underground mining, in an underground uranium mine there is the additional risk of radon gas. This is not a risk in an open cut mine. The risks of uranium open cut mining are well established, and they are the lowest of any of the available sources of energy. 
Some people may say: 'What about the delay? Surely cancers may appear in 30 years' time.' The answer is that the linkage between the radiation received and subsequent cancers is one of the most intensively studied of all medical phenomena, and uranium miners receive a very low dose, far below the threshhold level of danger. Uranium is not in fact a very radioactive substance. It can be transported perfectly safely in 44 gallon drums. It has a very long radioactive life- thousands of years in the popular, scare talk of the lunatic fringe- but this merely means that its rate of radioactive emission is very low. 
Uranium miners receive a radiation dose far below the level where there are any detectable health consequences. Fortunately there has been a recent study of people who have received comparable very low rates of doses. Nuclear power stations have been in use in Britain for a quarter of a century. Recently an intensive study was made of the health of long term nuclear power plant workers who receive radiation doses comparable to open cut miners. The health of the nuclear power plant workers in every respect, including incidence of all types of cancer, was found to be marginally better than that of their peer group in the community. This is not surprising, but imagine the song and dance there would have been if their health had been marginally worse than their peer group. 
As a matter of fact, to be fair the opponents of uranium mining do not concentrate very much on the obviously phoney dangers inside Australia. If they can stir up some alarms, doubts or fears, so much the better. They concentrate their campaign on the external effectsAustralia's responsibility to the world community. Here they raise three issues: The risk of nulcear weapon proliferation, the dangers of nu.cear power generation, and the possibility of terrorists obtaining nuclear weapons. Let us deal with each of these in turn. 
Let me say at the outset that, if I thought that Australia, by refusing to mine uranium, could in the slightest degree reduce the risk of nuclear war or the spread of nuclear weapons, I should be the most ardent advocate of leaving uranium in the ground. We have no such choice. As an exporter we would have some chance of influencing the improvement of nuclear safeguards. If we wash our hands of the whole affair, Pontius Pilate-like, we will have no such influence. There are many sources of uranium in the world; we have no monopoly. In the non-communist world, Canada, the Unites States, Niger and South Africa have substantial deposits. Of course, Russia is richly endowed. 
The trouble is that the nuclear nonproliferation treaty is seriously defective, particularly because three nuclear powers- France, China and India- are not members. Since the treaty has been in existence nuclear weapons have proliferated. India has exploded a nuclear device using indigenous uranium. There are rumours of similar developments in South Africa, Pakistan and Israel. There is no future in attempting to control the spread of nuclear weapons by controlling the supply of uranium. There is too much of it about from too many sources. 
What we should be doing is not wasting our time on the hopeless task of trying to control the availability of uranium, but instead should concentrate on the preventionof its enrichment into weapons grade material. This is feasible and we can have an influence provided we are involved in the uranium cycle. If we are not involved our chance to influence events is lost. 
I must digress for a moment into minor technicalities. Yellowcake, which we are exporting, is uranium oxide- U308. It is only very mildly radioactive, about as radioactive as a television set. Stories about yellowcake being hijacked by terrorists and bombs being constructed in backyard sheds are so ridiculous that it is impossible to take them seriously. The great bulk of the uranium in yellow cake is U238. Only 0.7 per cent of the uranium is U235, the raw material of the uranium bomb. For use in nuclear reactors, the proportion of U235 has to be increased through the enrichment process so that the percentage of U235 is 3 per cent. But there is no way in which that material could explode, lt is useless to terrorists. To become potentially explosive the U235 percentage would have to be increased to 90 per cent- the so-called weapons grade material. Each of those enrichment processes, either to 3 per cent or to 90 per cent, is of enormous technological complexity involving a major national effort, his no backyard job. 
I must admit, there is one other possible source of nuclear weapons grade material. Although light water reactors use a non-explosive fuel, low enriched uranium of 3 per cent, at the other end of the reaction, the spent fuel removed from the reactor does contain explosive materialplutonium. However, as long as the plutonium is embedded in the intensively radioactive spent fuel it is inaccessible for bomb-making purposes. 
But if the plutonium and unburned uranium are removed from the spent fuel, recycled as it is called, there is a potentially dangerous situation because the plutonium could be used by national governments for nuclear weapons or perhaps could be hijacked by terrorist groups for the same purpose. That recycling is technologically an extremely difficult and expensive process, but it can be done. 
I am sure that senators can see that if we want to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, as I am sure we all do, the sensible approach is not to try to control the supply of uranium- that is a hopeless prospect- but to control the key points, the uranium enrichment and the recycling process. The International Atomic Energy Agency should now be given monitoring responsibilities over the enrichment of uranium to make certain that highly enriched uranium- the 90 per cent level, the bomb material- is not being produced. The IAEA should also continuously monitor spent fuel to make sure that plutonium is not being extracted. As a major uranium exporter, we have a unique chance to influence these matters. Our safeguards policy on the use of uranium is a good start, but we must now go further and make the IAEA an effective monitoring body. If we bury our heads in the sand and refuse to export our uranium we will be throwing away that unique opportunity. The main short term beneficiary, by the way, will be South Africa, a result which I am surprised the Australian Labor Party accepts with such enthusiasm. In the long term, of course, if we do not help to achieve those essential controls, the world community will be the loser and we will have betrayed our future generations. Export or perish is a particularly appropriate slogan if applied to our export of uranium. 
So much for nuclear weapons proliferation. But what about the alleged dangers of power generation? 
If, as a result of inadequate controls, a nuclear war breaks out, to all intents and purposes it would mean the end of our civilisation. The main aim of our policy must be to achieve control of nuclear weapons. I wish to turn to another matter, that is, the alleged danger of power generation. Certainly there are dangers. There are dangers in every system of power generation. But the first question we should ask ourselves is this: What concern is that of ours? What right have we to attempt to dictate to other countries which system of power generation they should use? 
That is correct. I believe that for us to do that would be both ignorant and presumptious. What are the risks anyway? As I said earlier, every system of power generation has risks. We must compare like with like and, to make sensible comparison, one has to go into risk accountancy. If we wish to give risk numbers to energy machines, such as a power station, we must add up all the risks associated with the production of a particular amount of energy from the beginning. The results of risk accounting may be surprising to some. Surely the risk of being hit by the blade of a windmill is negligible, I suppose one might say. Possibly that is so. But in saying that have we remembered the risk involved in getting and fabricating the materials from which the windmill produces that energy, apart from making and erecting the stand-by plant for when the wind happens to stop blowing? I am indebted to Lord Rothschild, the former head of the British Labor Government's think tank, for a table showing the estimated deaths for a specified energy output from various power sources. Put simply, the table shows that the estimated number of deaths for the production of 10 gigowatt years of energy would be: Coal, 800 deaths; oil, 700 deaths; wind, 450 deaths; solar or space heating, 95 deaths; uranium  8h  deaths; natural gas  2Vi  deaths. Coal is 100 times as dangerous as uranium; wind is 60 times as dangerous; and solar power is 12 times as dangerous. Do senators find those figures surprising? They are surprising to the statistically ignorant who have been listening to the strident anti-nuclear campaign. 
A few weeks ago,  Senator Coleman  tabled a list of incidents in nuclear power plants of varying authenticity. Of course, accidents do occur in nuclear plants, but even in the celebrated Three Mile Island incident, the maximum dose of radiation received by any one of the two million people living in the area was 80 millirem. The average dose was 0.9 millirem. By the way, 80 millirem is an additional risk equivalent to that of smoking one cigarette a month. It would be easy to construct a list which is one hundred times as horrendous as  Senator Coleman's  list for the production of an equivalent amount of power from coal. Every method of power generation has its risks. Look at the situation with hydro-electric power. In recent years, two large dams used in the production of hydro-electricity have collapsed. One, at Frei US in France, caused 421 deaths; and another, at Viaiout in Italy, caused over 2,000 deaths. Imagine the outcry there would have been if casualties such as those had been caused by a nuclear plant. 1 think it is clear that nuclear power generation is probably the safest method of power generation. In any case, is that decision not up to the country concerned, weighing the risks and economic advantages for itself? What business is it of ours? What rights have we to impose our views on them? I submit we have none. I suppose that some people might say that, although a power station might have acceptable local dangers, it could be offensive to the rest of the world because of the way in which it damages the worldwide environment. I have pointed out already that burning fossil fuels- coal, oil or natural gas- is raising the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere worldwide and that is potentially the most serious environmental problem facing the world. Nuclear power stations do not emit carbon dioxide, but do they emit radiation which would affect other countries? 
Dose rates of radiation are normally measured in millirem. We live in a radioactive environment. We receive radiation in the form of cosmic rays from space and from minerals in the ground. Granite, for instance, is quite radioactive. In New York, the Grand Central Railway Station is made of granite. It is possible that a geiger counter could prove that the level of radioactivity in the Grand Central Railway Station is higher than that emitted from a nuclear power plant. Of course, no one suggests that this is dangerous, but it does show how widespread radioactivity is. The average person receives in radiation in the course of a year 100 millirem from background radiation, 70 to 80 millirem from medical and dental X-rays, four millirem from all past nuclear explosions and 0.2 of a millirem from all the nuclear power stations in the world. 
Incidentally, solar radiation increases with altitude. In Canberra one receives three millirem more a year than one receives at sea leavel. The same applies to flying. In a flight from Sydney to Melbourne one receives an extra dose of 0.3 of a millirem. This is, of course, no risk at all. But it is worth noting that one receives more additional radiation in a single one-hour flight and nine times more radiation by living in Canberra rather than Melbourne or Sydney than one receives from all the nuclear power stations in the world in a year. To suggest that we should attempt to stop nuclear power generation in other countries because of possible damage to the world environment is farcically absurd. 
So far I have been talking about boiling water reactors without the recycling of fuel. It is worth noting that nothing in this cycle provides any opportunity for terrorists. They can do nothing with yellowcake or with the fuel rods for nuclear power plants, and the plutonium in the reactor waste is in a highly radioactive environment and is not accessible without enormous technological effort. But there would be dangers if the recycling of reactor waste to extract the plutonium and the unburned uranium became common, as there would be dangers if the fast breeder reactor which uses plutonium as a fuel were widely introduced. 
If they are dangerous, why is there any chance of their being introduced? During the late 1 940s, the proven reserves of uranium in the United States were only 2,000 tons- about enough to run one large reactor for 10 years. In the belief that the world had very little recoverable uranium, it was felt that nuclear power would not be available on any large scale unless the plutonium were recovered from the spent fuel and reused. Further, it was widely held that it was important to build reactors designed to breed plutonium, in order to use the available uranium more efficiently- in fact, 50 times more efficiently. The massive discoveries of uranium around the world have changed this picture enormously, but the consumption of uranium has risen, too. In the United States, nuclear reactors produce about 15 per cent of all electricity generated. France is aiming to produce half of its electricity by nuclear power by 1985. Countries such as Korea are aiming to be fully nuclear by the turn of the century. But there are still uncertainties about the availability of uranium. The political stability of South Africa, which is a major producer of uranium must be in doubt, and overseas authorities must look at Australiapotentially a much larger producer than South Africa- with many doubts. 
Let there be no mistake: If there are doubts about the supply of uranium, countries will not give up nuclear power. They cannot afford to. What they will do is to move into the plutonium economy, recycling the wastes from power plants to extract the plutonium and building fast breeder plutonium reactors. It will force them into the plutonium economy so as to make better use of the limited supplies of uranium.  President  Carter is strongly against the plutonium economy. Surely we should be, too. We can make a major contribution to stopping it happening by making our uranium readily available to countries which are prepared to accept proper and enforceable safeguards in its use. Not to grasp this opportunity is to fail in a moral duty to the rest of the world. 
I think I should say something about the disposal of nuclear wastes. There are no technological difficulties in converting the high level wastes into solid form, such as vitrification or sythetic rock, and burying them thousands of feet down in geologically stable areas- areas that have been stable for hundreds of thousands of years. Already a commercial vitrification plant is operating in France. The delays are caused by disputes about the fuel cycle, whether the wastes should be solidified as they are, or whether the plutonium and unburned uranium should be extracted first, as is done in the French plant. For reasons I have given, I am strongly in favour of not extracting the plutonium. But it will not be extracted only if the world is assured of the ready supply of uranium. We have the chance to have a major influence on this decision, possessing, as we do, something like 20 per cent of the noncommunist world 's resources of uranium. 
If the facts are as decisively in favour of uranium power generation as I have suggested, where does the Opposition get its arguments from? I suggest that they come from three directions. A recent poll in America revealed that twothirds of Americans thought that under certain circumstances nuclear power stations could explode like atom bombs. We here all know that that is absolutely impossible. But, if irrational fears such as these exist, it is no wonder that activists are able to stir up alarm and despondency. Then there is the invisible nature of radioactivity. Much the same fears were evident in the early days of electrification, when people felt that something invisible could kill them or start fires. We have learned that we have to be careful with electricity; but, properly used, it is an enormous benefit. So it will be with nuclear power. But a massive education program is needed, and in the meantime many people will be at the mercy of irrational fears and prejudices. 
However, there is a darker and more sinister strand beneath all this. The non-communist world is heavily hooked on Middle East oil and nuclear power is the only feasible relief in sight. Massive increases in coal power generation would be too environmentally damaging. Solar power, if all goes well, might provide a small proportion- 5 to 10 per cent- of the world's power by the turn of the century. From the Russian point of view, if the non-communist world can be kept hooked on Middle East oil by denying or delaying its use of nuclear power, then the non-communist world is weakened both economically and militarily. The Russians, of course, are completely cynical about all this. They themselves are major users of nuclear power. It is also a dangerous strategy, because the seeds of a third world war lie in the Middle East. But, dangerous or not, it is their policy, and left wing groups in the Western countries, including Australia, are obediently leading the fight against nuclear power. It is no coincidence that here in Australia the Movement Against Uranium Mining has been taken over by the Moscow line communists. 
We must not allow our policies to be decided by fears, ignorance or political manipulation. There can be no dispute that uranium mining and export will create many jobs and will effect a substantial improvement in our balance of payments at a time when we will desperately need something to balance our oil import bill. But, beyond this, we have responsibilities to the rest of the world. We have three moral questions which we must ask ourselves. The first question we must ask is: Have we the right to decide for other countries whether they should use nuclear power generation, or is that a decision for the governments of the countries concerned? The second question is: Have we the right to neglect to use our power to improve nuclear safeguards and to prevent the world from moving into the plutonium age, with all its attendant dangers? The third moral question which we must answer is whether this country, with 0.4 per cent of the world 's population, has the right to deny the rest of the world access to 25 per cent of its most important energy source. I submit that the answer to each question is an unequivocal no. A responsible government must make the decision to make our uranium available for the world. I strongly recommend that we should mine and export our uranium, and I hope the Labor Party and the trade union movement will re-examine their policy rationally and honestly. 
Debate interrupted. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen the recent recommendation of the World Health Organisation that non-smoking should be regarded as normal social behaviour and that all action which can promote the development of this attitude should be taken and, further, that there should be a total prohibition of all forms of tobacco promotion? Has the Minister noted the attempts of the tobacco industry to frustrate a public health campaign in northern New South Wales on the dangers of cigarette addiction? Has that attempted frustration taken the form of challenging the wording of certain anti-smoking advertisements and forcing their withdrawal until they have been justified before a series of lay advertising tribunals? Is that despite the fact that the very serious health dangers of smoking are known and that the Australian Medical Association has confirmed the medical accuracy of the advertisements in question? 
Does the Minister accept as proper that the purveyors of a dangerous drug- cumulatively the most dangerous of all the addictive drugs in Australia- should be able to disrupt a public health campaign in this way? If the Minister cannot do anything about this procedural manoeuvre, will she have the Department of Health make a formal protest so that the tobacco industry is similarly forced to justify claims such as that a certain type of country is marlboro country, that a particular type of cigarette is cool and that another is as fresh as an alpine stream and so that such advertising is stopped until these claims can be clinically justified before an impartial tribunal? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
Was a medical practitioner, who falsely bulk billed Medibank for over $17,500, not gaoled but fined $5,200, as reported in  The Age,  25 August 1979. 
Was another medical practitioner in Perth, who defrauded Medibank of only $236, gaoled for three years. 
What action is proposed to strengthen the laws relating to medical practitioners' defrauding of Medibank, in particular by increasing fines to a level which is realistic in relation to doctors ' incomes. 
Is there any professional disciplinary body which can take further action in such cases. 
-The States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill on the surface is a routine Bill to amend the States Grants (Roads) Act to update the amounts to be made available by the Commonwealth to the States for roads. I am sure you, the  Deputy President,  will be thinking that surely no one, except perhaps  Senator Gietzelt,  could carp at such a piece of benevolent generosity. But as I pointed out last year when a similar Bill was before us, it is not as simple or as benevolent as it seems. There are serious defects in the principal Act. Honourable senators may not be aware of the very tight control this Act gives the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  over road expenditure throughout Australia. In the principal Act, road expenditure is divided into eight different categories: The construction of national highways, the maintenance of national highways, the construction of national commerce roads, the construction of rural arterial roads, the construction and maintenance of rural local roads, minor traffic and engineering road safety improvements, the construction of urban arterial roads and the construction of urban local roads. For each of these eight different categories the amount to be allocated by the Federal Government is laid down in detail and overall matching grants are demanded of the States. These matching grants range from the highest in Victoria at $1.25 from the State for each Federal dollar to the lowest in Tasmania at 56c from the State for each Commonwealth dollar. I am sure that honourable senators will have noticed that this gives the Federal Minister for Transport control over not only the Federal road grants but also over State expenditure on roads. 
I will explain in a few minutes to  Senator Mulvihill  what I think about this. There are areas of the principal Act that I am concerned about and I will deal with them in a moment. I think the whole approach of the principal Act is quite contrary to the fundamental approach of the Liberal Party to federalism. It is very much Labor socialist-centralist legislation. 
I would say it is bad. The present Act, as  Senator Mulvihill  is undoubtedly aware, is based on the 1974 Whitlam Government Act which was heavily criticised by the then Opposition in this chamber. Unfortunately, the present 1977 Act repeats nearly all the defects of the earlier Labor Government Act. It is littered with unnecessary controls by Canberra. For example, the Act contains expressions such as the State may propose to the Federal Minister for Transport . . .'; 'the Minister may exclude the program of projects . . .'; 'the Minister may require . . .', and so on. All those provisions are concerned with urban and rural local and arterial roads, which on any sensible definition of co-operative federalism should be an exclusive State responsibility. 
All that the 1977 Act did was to remove some of the detailed special requirements for State governments to submit their proposed programs for urban arterial roads for approval by the Federal Minister for Transport and to permit the transfer of funds between categories. This was subject to the approval of the Federal Minister for Transport. Otherwise the 1977 Act is as objectionable as the 1974 Act was. I think that the Labor shadow Minister for Transport was quite justified in saying in the debate on the 1977 Bill that it was, in the main, the development and refinement of the progressive roads legislation enacted by the Labor Government. 
I should like to deal with the question of principle before I turn to how the Act is administered by the present Minister for Transport. Our policy in the first issue is clear. We believe in dynamic co-operative federalism. The policy was well summed up by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  when he said: 
The States have gained new financial capacity, new financial flexibility and new opportunities to make independent policy decisions and initiate new programs. The New Federalism has given the States significant freedom from the dictates of Canberra. They now enjoy more genuine sovereignty and more real responsibility. 
This ringing statement might perhaps have been qualified by saying: 'Except with regard to roads'. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has also said: 
The drift towards centralism created its own inefficiencies, in particular in the duplication of administrative agencies and the growth of a large central bureaucracy. However, this drift runs completely counter to the kind of society where a real decentralisation of power is required if people's needs are to be met in ways most sensitive to those needs. 
This remark by the Prime Minister brings me to the second area of concern, that is, the inefficient way in which this present Act is being administered, at least as far as my State of Victoria is concerned. There are many criticisms. The road funds- the bulk of which are State funds anyway- are directed by the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in ways which do not meet Victoria's real road needs or priorities. The apparently political motivation of these grants is certainly not to the advantage of the Liberal Government of Victoria. The distribution of the grants is neither that desired by the Victorian Government nor that recommended by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, now the Bureau of Transport Economics. If I may elaborate on that, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads recommended a total allocation to Victoria of $208. lm in 1979-80, but the actual allocation was $ 1 1 3.7m. Perhaps this is fair enough in view of the general expenditure restraint. Yet in the allocation to categories, the Commonwealth allocated $ 12.8m to rural arterial roads against the Bureau's recommended $7. 8m, an increase of 64 per cent for rural arterial roads. The Bureau's recommended figure for rural local roads was $ 18.4m. Yet the Commonwealth allocated $2 1.8m to rural local roads, a 17 per cent increase on the recommended figure. At the same time, although the Bureau recommended that $89. 2m was required for urban arterial road construction, the Commonwealth allocated only $25.58m. What happened overall was that the Commonwealth allocated only 29 per cent of the funds recommended for urban arterial roads, yet in the same Act it granted sums vastly in excess of the recommendations made by its own Bureau for rural arterial and rural local roads. It is this massive imbalance which the State has been called upon to correct by allocations from its own funds. 
The second criticism relates to the unnecessary administrative costs and the duplication of administrative effort involved in preparing Statewide road programs for approval by the Federal Government, regardless of the magnitude or cost of the works. This is the sort of wasteful duplication of administration that the Prime Minister was talking about in the passage I have just quoted. The final criticism is of delays in receiving Federal ministerial approval of programs, especially during the last three years. Again the remarks of the Prime Minister apply to this. This convinces me that a very bad Act is being badly administered. I am not suggesting for a moment that the Federal Government has no responsibility for roads. I know some have argued that this is so, and that the Commonwealth should grant the States merely the amounts now spent by the Commonwealth on roads as increases in the States' general revenue grants, leaving the State governments to decide what they wish to spend on roads, on hospitals, on schools, on houses or whatever. I think that this goes too far. 
I think that a national government does have certain responsibilities for roads, and I suggest the following principles: firstly, that the Commonwealth should determine the requirements of national roads and should, through the States, fully fund their construction and maintenance; secondly, that the Commonwealth should determine the minimum acceptable national expenditure on roads other than national roads and should control such minimum expenditure by making grants to the States for such purposes' under section 96 of the Constitution, and by requiring matching expenditure from State governments, there being no objection to State governments spending amounts on roads in excess of their matching requirements from their own resources; thirdly, that the Commonwealth should not attempt to control, supervise or direct the way in which the State governments or local governments spend available funds on roads other than national roads, other than to be satisfied by State Auditors-General that the necessary funds have been properly expended so as to qualify for the appropriate road grants under section 96 of the Constitution. 
On the subject of grants to local governments I support entirely the way in which we are giving local governments a share of tax revenue- 1.75 per cent this year, with the promise of an increase to 2 per cent next year. This is for the general revenue purpose of local governments, to spend on whatever they choose for the benefit of their local communities. The actual amount that each local government receives from the State share of the tax revenues is decided by bodies set up by the various State governments. I believe that this is good, but it is quite another matter when we attempt to come between State governments and local governments in specific matters such as road grants. Local governments are the creations of State governments, and are their responsibility. I know that some how senators rather like being the patrons of local government. 
There is no doubt that local governments like receiving road grants from the Commonwealth under section 96 of the Constitution. They feel they receive more that way. But if this is true, let us think about what we are doing. We are not increasing the total amount available for roads. What we are doing is distorting the balance between arterial and local roads and urban and rural roads as recommended by both the Commonwealth experts and by the State governments, and giving more to local roads at the expense of arterial roads and more to country roads at the expense of city roads, against the recommendations of the experts and against the wishes of the State governments. I suppose we might get some short term political credit out of this, but credit achieved by such unprincipled means normally evaporates fairly quickly. But much more important is that this is not an area in which we should be involved. Our policy on federalism and sensible administration dictates that the development of the road network inside a State, other than national roads, should be left to State governments. Federal interference is both improper and inefficient. We should keep our fingers out of it. 
The question is what to do about it? The principal Act is not before us. We are only considering the Schedule. Also there is the valid point that has been put to me that the State Premiers apparently accepted the 1977 Act without too much fuss. I do not find that very surprising. Grants under section 96 of the Constitution are normally offered by the Commonwealth on a take it or leave it basis, and the States have no real option but to take it. But next year the principal Act comes up for renewal and I hope that the State Premiers will challenge strongly the principles involved in the State Grants (Roads) Act. If they do, and if suitable and proper principles are not embodied in the new Act, in other words, unless it is a vastly different Act from the present one, then I will move the necessary amendments and divide the Senate as many times as necessary in order to put the Act in a shape which meets our principles of federalism and the requirements of efficient administration. 
-No one could reasonably quibble with the terms of the matter for discussion put before the Senate by  Senator Wriedt,  namely: 
The increasing world expenditure on arms and the needs for all governments to exercise their influence to arrest this trend for the benefit of mankind. 
I think that statement is unexceptionable. There are three main aspects of this problem that must concern all of us. There is the sheer scale of world investment in armaments and of course the consequent denial of funds for other purposes, such as development. Most seriously, if these armaments exist there must be the possibilityperhaps the probability- that they will be used. 
Global defence expenditure at the moment is about $350 billion a year-$350,000m a year. Of this expenditure, Russia and the United States of America together account for about 60 per cent. What is of concern at the moment is that the governments of the Third World, the underdeveloped countries, are increasing their expenditure on armaments at the expense of urgently needed programs for education and health and the development of their infrastructures. It is worth looking at what the defence expenditures are. At the moment the United States spends about 5 per cent of its gross domestic product; the United Kingdom, 4.7 per cent; Sweden, a country with which we often compare ourselves, 3.4 per cent; and Australia, 2.6 per cent. The highest figure is that for Israel, which spends 24.5 per cent of its GDP on defence; Saudi Arabia spends 15 per cent. I am sure all honourable senators are aware of the special circumstances in the Middle East that dictate this level of expenditure. Away from the Middle East, the two highest spenders on defence are the Soviet Union, which is spending between 1 1 per cent and 14 per cent of its GDP on defence, and the 
People's Republic of China, which is spending 10 per cent of its GDP. It is most notable to someone looking through the list of expenditures on defence that the high spenders are the communist countries. This has a very serious influence on stability in the world. 
What can we do about this? As  Senator Wriedt  said in his opening remarks, today is United Nations Day and it is the start of Disarmament Week. For some time the UN has been preoccupied with the issue. For instance, the program of action of the 1978 Special Session on Disarmament called for concrete steps to be taken to facilitate the reduction of military budgets. Our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said publicly at the United Nations that Australia in principle supports such reductions, carried out in ways that would not be destabilising or which would create new tensions. But, what can we do apart from talk? The most dangerous area for the world involves nuclear weapons, both the possession of these weapons by the super-powers and the possibility of widespread proliferation. Oddly enough, I share some of  Senator Gietzelt  's concern about SALT I and SALT II. It is probably proper for the United States to ratify them but I cannot think of any marked effect they will have on the likelihood of a global nuclear war. There have to be other ways in which we can prevent the outbreak of such a war. Both the United States and Russia, for the foreseeable future, will maintain enormous arsenals of immensely destructive nuclear weapons. At the moment they have between them about 1 5,000 warheads, each of them incomparably more damaging than the Hiroshima bomb. We must look for ways in which we can prevent the possible use of this arsenal and anything Australia can do in this field must be a contribution to world peace. 
This is the great importance of the American communications station at North West Cape. It is designed to communicate with American ballistic missile submarines, which because of their invulnerability, are second strike weapons designed, to enable the United States to retaliate if a surprise attack is launched on it. Their very existence is the strongest deterrent there can be to the outbreak of a global nuclear war. By providing the facilities to make this deterrent effective, Australia is making a major contribution to the prevention of the outbreak of a war, the results of which would horrify us all. I am sorry that not all members of the Labor Party are prepared openly and willingly to support this proposition. 
The second area of great concern must be the possibility of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The trouble is that the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is seriously defective, particularly because three nuclear powers- France, China and India- are not signatories to it. Since the Treaty has been in existence nuclear weapons have proliferated. India has exploded a nuclear weapon, using indigenous uranium. There are rumours of similar developments in South Africa, Pakistan, Israel and possibly other countries. There is no future in attempting to control the spread of nuclear weapons by controlling the supply of uranium. There is far too much of it about from too many sources. If we are trying to stop nuclear proliferation, which I am sure is the aim of all of us, what we should be doing is not to waste time on the hopeless task of trying to control the availability of uranium but to concentrate on what can be done, that is, to control the process of enriching it into weapons grade material. Uranium 235 is present in very small quantities in yellowcake. To be usable in a power reactor U235 has to be enriched to 3 per cent. That is no more explosive than soap. It cannot be used as weapons grade material. To be usable for weapons purposes it has to be enriched to 90 per cent. This is the point on which our controls must focus. We can do it, if we have the will. 
The other thing we must do if we wish to stop the spread of nuclear weapons is to see that plutonium is not extracted from the wastes of nuclear reactors and that countries do not go in for fast breeder plutonium reactors. The key to this is the ready availability of uranium at reasonable prices. If we try to restrict the supplies of uranium and artificially create a shortage, we will not stop countries from using nuclear power but we will force them into recycling their nuclear power plant wastes and extracting plutonium- a great danger to the spread of nuclear weapons- and going into fast breeder plutonium reactors. This is the most dangerous thing that we can do. If we ensure- as we can- that there is a ready supply of uranium at reasonable prices we will be making a major contribution to the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We must also fight to ensure that the International Atomic Energy Agency is given effective monitoring responsibilities over the enrichment of uranium to make certain that highly enriched uraniumthe 90 per cent weapons grade material- is not being produced. It should also continuously monitor spent fuel, the wastes of nuclear reactors, to ensure that plutonium is not being extracted. 
As a major uranium exporter we have a chance to have a significant influence on these matters both in terms of the controls and safeguards and also in terms of ensuring that there is a reasonable supply of uranium at a reasonable price. By our influence we can convert the IAEA into an effective monitoring body. If we bury our head in the sand and refuse to export our uranium we will be throwing away a unique opportunity. The main short term beneficiary of that policy would be South Africa, a result which I am surprised the Labor Party accepts with such enthusiasm. If we do not assist in the achievement of these essential controls, in the long term the world community will be the loser and, by the way, we will not be acting in accordance with the wording of the matter of public importance proposed by  Senator Wriedt  which states in part:   . . for all governments to exercise their influence to arrest this trend for the benefit of mankind. 
But it is not only nuclear weapons that are concerned. As I have said, in two key areas of nuclear weapons proliferation we have a chance to play a significant role, if we use our power. There is also a very significant level of conventional arms throughout the world. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  told the United Nations Committee on Disarmament in January 1979 that significant reductions in military expenditures achieved in a manner which provided countries with undiminished security at a lower level of armament would do much to help reduce international tensions and to assist the release of both national and international resources for economic and social development. I must emphasise that this process must not be unilateral. One way disarmament does nothing. If one side disarms and the other does not, we will be back to the situation in Europe in the 1 920s when the British Labour Government, under Ramsay MacDonald, disarmed and its ineffectiveness led directly to the rise of Hitler, Mussolini and Japan. Disarmament must be common; it must be on both sides. 
The proposition put forward by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is fine as far as it goes but to some extent it is a chicken and egg proposition, because armaments will be reduced if tension is reduced and tension will be reduced if armaments are reduced. The problem is how to make the break. We must try to build up more confidence and trust between countries. This will not be easy because the existence of armaments is evidence of the lack of trust. We must also do our best to ensure that there is adequate surveillance, adequate scrutiny, of what is going on, because without that I do not think sufficient trust will be achieved so that significant disarmament is possible. I think this must be our first diplomatic priority. 
I return to my point that we can play a significant part in the prevention of the outbreak of a global nuclear war and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The reduction of conventional armaments will be more difficult, but I think that we can and should endeavour to play a part in relieving tensions and ensuring that some reduction is possible. I maintain that until that reduction of tension has been achieved we must not disarm unilaterally. It must be done in combination and at the same time. We must always remember the Latin tag- si vis pacem, para bellum- which is of great validity and which I am sure  Senator Tate,  who is following me in the debate, will be able to construe. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the partial retirement scheme which has operated in Sweden since 1976? Is the Minister aware that the object of the Swedish scheme is to ease the transition from a full working life to retirement for employees aged between 60 and 65 years by giving them the possibility of a part time job and a partial retirement scheme? In view of the current debate on early retirement in Australia, has the Department of Social Security examined the feasibility of such a scheme in Australia? Does the Minister agree that such a scheme has merit and might be a convenient way of eliminating the anomaly whereby men receive age pensions at 65 years and women at 60 years, even though the life expectancy of a female is much greater than that of a male? 
-(Victoria)-by leave-This report, like the Freedom of Information Bill with which it deals, is one of the most important matters to be laid before this Senate in recent years. My colleagues on the Committee-  Senator Missen  and  Senator Evans-  have dealt with the central importance for the working of modern democracy of effective public access to government information. They have also dealt with the recommendations that our Committee has made to make the Government Bill more effective. I support their views and wish to add one point. By the very complexity of the matters with which we are dealing, it was inevitable that various Committee members would take a special interest in particular matters although we are all responsible for the full report. I repeat what  Senator Missen  said: 'In all essential matters, the Committee was unanimous'. 
In the handling of our report, I took a particular responsibility in dealing with Cabinet and 
Executive Council documents and documents bearing national security classifications. I should like to say, with regard to the problem of security documents, a subject on which I have some professional experience, that our recommendations will not only improve freedom of information, but also markedly improve the national security arrangements. 
The status of this report is somewhat curious. The Bill was referred to our Committee without even a first reading. The sessional order procedure for referring Bills to committees after the second reading was not used for the very good reason that the sessional order procedure does not permit the hearing of evidence from the public. It does not surprise me at all that the sessional order procedure has never been used in its 18 months of existence. The important point is that the Bill is still in the hands of this chamber and there it must remain to be brought on when this chamber thinks fit. It must not be withdrawn for reconsideration by the Public Service as then we might never see it again. It is for the Parliament, not for the Executive, and certainly not for the Public Service to decide the details of a Bill such as the Freedom of Information Bill. 
After detailed examination, probably the most detailed that any Bill has ever received from this Parliament, the Committee has made many recommendations for changes to the Bill and has given extensive reasons for its recommendations. The Government and its Public Service advisers must have reasonable time to consider these recommendations- say, three months. After not more than three months, we have the right to expect crisp decisions from the Government on our recommendations indicating which are accepted and setting out in detail the reasons for any rejections. Then we could have an informed debate. 
To take up what  Senator Evans  said- it might come more persuasively from the Government than from the Opposition benches- the last thing ve want is to have our report referred to yet another interminable inter-departmental com.mittee which, after a delay of months or perhaps years, will produce a bland report of invincible conservatism. I read the other day a parody of the report such a committee might have made on the charge of the Light Brigade. It went like this: 
This  manouevre  was possibly not, in the view of some participants and observers, a complete and unqualified success; and it is possible to argue, though admittedly with the benefit of hindsight, that some improvements in communications could be made. 
Nevertheless, we are satisfied not only that everyone acted with the best intentions, but that in the event neither the outcome of this battle nor the campaign as a whole was materially affected. 
We do not want to wait around interminably for such a bland report by the Public Service on our report. The Government has all the information it needs to make decisions promptly. The Bill is in the hands of this chamber, and if we do not get these prompt decisions from the bureaucracy, we should bring the Bill on for debate ourselves and consider the amendments recommended by the Committee. I am sure that the numbers would be there for such a course of action. 
Finally, I want to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this Bill is one of the very few which have ever been given public examination in the way I have recommended previously several times should be adopted for all Bills. The Government Freedom of Information Bill was clearly the product of the bureaucracy, with some minor Ministerial input. I am sure that anyone who reads our report will recognise that our recommendations will improve the Bill enormously. These improvements were very largely the results of the contributions of the public. Moreover, this public involvement has helped to reduce the dangerous alienation of the public from the parliamentary process. All Government legislation would benefit from similar public examination. 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment noted repeated proposals for the harvesting of icebergs from Antarctica? Is it a fact that 85 per cent of the fresh water reserves of the world are in Antarctica? Has the Minister's Department carried out any investigation of whether such a scheme is economically feasible now or in the foreseeable future? If such a scheme is possible, should we not be a leader in it, both because of our proximity to Antarctica and particularly because we are the most water-short continent in the world? 
I oppose this amendment, though I was rather tempted by  Senator Puplick  's ingenious attempt to link ratification with a specific reference to clause 50 of the Covenant. As I stated in my speech on the second reading, my worry is that if we as a Parliament give an imprimatur to ratification we should first be satisfied that the Bill is effective. I am far from satisfied that it is or will be effective. The decision to ratify the Covenant is an Executive one. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  has outlined the measures he will take to try to ensure that it is honourably entered into. I do not think that as a Parliament we should give our imprimatur to that ratification of the Covenant because I do not believe the present Bill is an adequate means of ensuring the provisions of the Covenant are implemented in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer considering a proposal for income splitting for tax purposes between husbands and wives with a view to helping the one income family unit? Is it a fact that such a scheme would be very regressive, of little value to a low income family, but worth more than $5,000 a year to a professional man with a taxable income of $50,000? What would be the cost to revenue of the income splitting proposal? Accepting the desirability of ensuring equitable tax treatment for the single income family, as I am sure all on this side of the chamber do, could not this result be achieved more simply, more economically and more equitably by increasing the tax allowance for a dependent spouse and making the allowance a tax credit rather than a deduction from taxable income? 
-So far this debate has been very unusual. Apart from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  I am the eighth senator to speak- there have been four speakers from the Opposition side and four from the Government benches- and so far everyone except the Attorney-General has criticised the Human Rights Commission Bill 1 979 and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill 1 979. 1 do not propose to break the pattern. As a matter of fact, I get the impression that no one, including the Attorney-General, likes the Human Rights Commission Bill very much. The best that its supporters can find to say for it is that we need it so that we can ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1 966 and that although it will not make a significant difference to human rights in Australia, most of which are governed by State legislation anyway, the present Bill is as far as we can reasonably go under our federal structure. Both of those propositions may be true but we should not accept them without the closest examination. I should like to deal with each of them in turn. 
As I have said, the relevant United Nations covenant is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. An Australian delegation, led by the then Attorney-General,  Mr Nigel  Bowen, took a key part in its design. Australia signed the Covenant in December 1972 but it has not yet ratified it. Why not? I think that it is partly because we tend to assume that we have an impeccable system of legal protection for human rights which is second to none in the world. We think of our legal protections for the human rights of Australians as a happy blend between British justice and the Australian 'fair go '. As has been pointed out by  Mr Justice  Kirby, the 
Chairman of the Australian Law Reform Commission, this is a dangerous illusion. There is no doubt, he says, that our legal protections fall short in many respects of internationally accepted standards. That is not to say that we are significantly worse than most countries in the protection of human rights- far from it. But there is no room for complacency. 
It is worth pointing out some of the key provisions of this United Nations Covenant. For our present purposes, the most important is Article 2 under which, if we ratify the Covenant, we should commit ourselves to taking the necessary steps in accordance with our constitutional processes to give effect to the requirements and rights recognised in the Covenant. The Bill presently before us stems from that requirement. I shall turn in a moment to the question of whether the Bill adequately meets the requirement, particularly in view of Article 50 of the Covenant, which provides that the Covenant shall extend to all parts of federal states without any limitations or exceptions. 
Firstly, I should like to deal with some of the rights laid down in the Covenant, some of which we may have difficulty in meeting. Article 2, for instance, would commit us to ensuring that everyone enjoys the rights laid down without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. We certainly have some way to go here. Article 3 of the Covenant provides for equal rights for men and women. Article 7 prohibits torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. I think that many, perhaps all, of our present prisons and some of our mental institutions could be regarded as inhuman and degrading. Article 1 1 forbids imprisonment merely on the ground of inability to fulfil a contractual obligation. In some parts of Australia people are still imprisoned for civil debts. Article 1 2 states that everyone shall be free to leave any country, including his own. It will be an interesting day when this is effective in communist countries, many of which have ratified the Covenant- the Soviet Union, for instance. 
I do not want to go through all the rights which are contained in the first 27 Articles of the Covenant. On the whole, the rights outlined in the Covenant are well established in this country, although we do have some surprising shortcomings. I have pointed out a few. There are others. I do not want to represent to the Senate that this Covenant is perfect. It is far from perfect. It bears strong traces of its origin. Governments are the great infringers of human rights, whether by action or by inaction. This Covenant, as I have said, bears strong marks of its origin. The United States Bill of Rights was imposed by the community- perhaps more accurately, by an articulate minority of the community- on the Government. The Covenant is an agreement between governments. One finds throughout this Covenant ringing statements of liberty that are immediately qualified by remarks recognising administrative convenience. I will take just two examples. Article 12 of the Covenant, in paragraph 1 , states: 
Everyone lawfully within the territory of a Slate shall, within that territory, have the right to liberty of movement and freedom to choose his residence. 
That is a fine statement. It is qualified in paragraph 3 by the administrative convenience of saying: 
The above-mentioned rights shall not be subject to any restrictions except those which are provided by law, are necessary to protect national security, public order - 
The French expression of 'ordre public', which is much more extensive than our interpretation of public order, is then used. It continues: public health or morals or the rights and freedoms of others . . . 
That is a very severe restriction on the rights established in paragraph 1 . Article 1 8 states: 
Everyone shall have the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. 
That is a fine ringing statement. It is qualified in paragraph 3, which states: 
Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs may be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law - 
Prescribed by law in Iran, perhaps- and are necessary to protect public safety, order, health, or morals or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. 
There are, as I am sure honourable senators can see, very serious defects and very substantial grounds by which administrative procedures can limit the rights of the Covenant. It is a fairly good document, I think one could say, but it is in no sense a perfect declaration of human rights. 
If we already meet, and in some cases exceed, the requirements of this Covenant, why do we bother to ratify it? After all, those who have ratified it are a very mixed crew. So far 57 countries, including Australia, have signed the Covenant and 58 countries, not including Australia, have ratified it. The discrepancy in numbers is caused by the fact that some countries have ratified it without signing it. Among the countries that have ratified it are Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Iran, Poland and the Soviet Union. Who would give much for human rights in Iran today? Only a few days ago in this chamber we heard a report on the state of civil rights in the Soviet Union. They are the countries which have ratified this Covenant. All of them are countries which are notorious for their ignoring of human rights. Their ratification of this Covenant must have been purely cynical. Do we want to join them, bearing in mind the obligations that we would be accepting and in our case would, I am sure, intend to meet? I think we do. 
The Attorney-General argued in his second reading speech that some countries in our region have not yet ratified the Covenant- I might say that they certainly have not applied the principles- and should be encouraged to do so and that if we do not ratify it ourselves we have no influence. Moreover, as a member of the international community in good standing and also as a recently elected member of the United Nations Human Rights Commission, it is very embarrassing for us not to have ratified a covenant on human rights. I think that the Attorney-General is right; that we should ratify the Covenant. As I pointed out earlier, this involves us in taking effective steps- not just steps for show- to ensure that the United Nations rights are effective here both federally and in the States- throughout the federation- without any exemptions or exceptions. I would not want to be a party to passing legislation with a view to enabling us to ratify the Covenant if, like some of the others who have ratified it, we have no real intention of meeting our obligations under the Covenant. 
The Human Rights Commission Bill is the third attempt to give legislative effect to this responsibility. The first was the Human Rights Bill, introduced in 1973 by Attorney-General Murphy, with his customary panache and sloppy administration. The concept behind this Bill was to produce an Australian Bill of rights which embodies the rights laid down in the United Nations Covenant. By virtue of section 109 of the Australian Constitution, anything in State legislation inconsistent with the provisions of the Bill would have been inoperative to the extent of the inconsistency. The provisions of the Human Rights Bill would have overridden inconsistent provisions in Commonwealth, State and Territory laws. The Bill also provided for the appointment of a human rights commissioner whose function would be to investigate infringements of the guaranteed freedoms and conciliate them if he could. If necessary, civil proceedings could have been instituted in the Australian Industrial Court, which could have granted a variety of remedies such as injunction, damages or the quashing of a conviction. 
I do not want to digress to the question of whether a Bill of Rights would improve or worsen our civil and political rights. I think we should have a Bill of Rights, provided it is adequately entrenched in the Constitution so that the rights cannot be taken away at the whim of a single parliament. This was one of the defects of the Murphy Bill. It was an ordinary Act of Parliament and could always have been amended by another Act. The more serious practical problem of the Murphy Bill was that it would have vastly extended Federal powers at the expense of the States. The constitutional justification of this was the external affairs power; the doctrine that if we enter into a valid external treaty that obliges us to do certain things, the existence of the treaty gives the Commonwealth Parliament the powers necessary to give effect to the treaty, even to the extent of powers which would otherwise be beyond Commonwealth competence. This power has been the subject of several High Court cases. 
The latest case on the subject was the 1975 High Court decision on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, which does not help us much because it was not concerned with the internal scope of the external affairs power, although Justice Murphy did state a wide view of the power. Indeed, it is clear that if section 5 1(29) is to have any meaning at all as an independent head of power, it must give the Commonwealth at least some power to intrude into State fields. 
As long ago as 1936 the High Court in the Burgess case rejected the view that section 51(29) was limited to the external aspects of matters covered in other paragraphs of section 5 1. All the members of the court were then in agreement that the Commonwealth Parliament could give effect to a treaty whose implementation would require legislation affecting the domestic order of the Commonwealth; that is, where necessary, intruding into State fields. However, the actual decision in the Burgess case was that the regulations were invalid because they had departed from the strict terms of the international treaty. This strict interpretation was eased somewhat in Poole's case in 1939, where it was accepted that legislation giving substantial effect to a treaty might be upheld even though there was not exact compliance with the treaty in matters of detail. 
In the more recent Airlines case of 1965, there is little discussion of the external affairs power, although Justice Menzies did say that under section 51 (29) the Commonwealth has power to make laws that carry out international obligations under a convention with other nations concerning external affairs. This may well be the key. The agreement must concern external affairs. With the current world-wide concern about human rights, there is little doubt that the United Nations Covenant would meet this requirement. I believe we must accept that there can be no doubt that we have the power, although there are many uncertainties about its limits. For one thing, the international treaty would almost certainly have to be honestly entered into; for another, the High Court will probably be cautious about how far it will let this power be used for fear it will get out of control. It might even go some way to reviving the old concept of implied prohibitions, the notion that the Commonwealth cannot act so as to interfere unwarrantably with the functioning of the States or to threaten their independence. To my mind, the fundamental defect of the Murphy approach was that a Bill of Rights based on the United Nations Covenant would quite possibly be constitutional, under the external affairs power, but it would be in many ways less than our present rights. But attempts to extend the provisions in the Bill to cover the rights we have and should have would probably be unconstitutional. So it is a very awkward dilemma. 
I mention this external affairs power because it is vital to our consideration of the present Bill. There is no real doubt that the power exists. It may not be politically or administratively sensible to use it, but we must not pretend that it does not exist. Since the failure of the Murphy Bill there have been two other attempts, including the present one, to draft a Bill to give effect to the United Nations Covenant. There is no difference in principle between the 1977 Bill, which lapsed on dissolution of Parliament, and the present Bill. A most important difference in the present Bill is the provision for co-operation with the States.  Senator Missen  has pointed out some substantial procedural defects in the present Bill: The lack of any enforcement power by the Human Rights Commission; the power given to the Minister to by-pass the Commission and give its power to the States; the possible conflict of the revised Freedom of Information Bill which I thought dealt very effectively with the undesirability of conclusive certificates by Ministers; and the undesirable introduction in the Human Rights Commission Bill of the legal concept of standing to preclude people without sufficient interest from making a complaint. These are all significant defects which no doubt will be fully debated in Committee. However, for the moment I want to concentrate on the key issue- the scope of the Bill. 
Like its predecessor, the present Bill avoids the Bill of Rights approach. Instead, a Human Rights Commission is to be set up to draw the attention of the Government and Parliament to areas where action seems necessary to make our civil and political rights effective- draw the attention, not take action. This only applies to Commonwealth laws. State laws, where most of the problems occur, will not be covered. Does this really meet our obligations under articles 2 and 50 of the Covenant, if it is ratified? The Bill attempts to cover this in clause 1 1 by providing for the making of co-operative arrangements with the States. There is something to be said for this approach. Surely we should be able to cooperate effectively in this matter of human rights. After all, as has been pointed out by Justice Kirby, despite the great differences of history, culture and language, European countries have been able to produce a European Convention on Human Rights and the Council of Europe has produced more than 100 conventions on such diverse subjects as extradition, the legal status of migrant workers, transplantation laws and suppression of terrorism. 
Can we accept in our Federal system that we can achieve less than could a formerly disunited Europe? I think not, though it must be admitted that the present approach to this Bill is rather timid. Even if joint Commonwealth-State organisations are set up, they will not necessarily deal with the civil and political rights of State laws. They may, but only if the States concerned want them to. Moreover, the Attorney-General 's confidence in the workings of even such limited cooperation seems slightly tepid. He said in his second reading speech that already there are prospects of achieving such arrangements in some States and the Northern Territory. That is fine. But what happens if other States do not agree to State laws being covered? For how long is it reasonable for us to accept this? For how long would this failure be compatible with our responsibility under the Covenant to take the necessary steps to give effect to the rights recognised in the Covenant in all parts of the Federation without any limitations or exceptions? We have the power to override the States to make these rights effective. We must not hold ourselves out to the international community as being powerless in this respect. We may not choose to use the power but we certainly should have it if we want it. 
In this fundamental respect I think the present Bill goes as far as is politically feasible at the moment. But that is not the end of the matter. The history in this country of this type of co-operative approach is not very encouraging. There have been successes, but not many. As a State  Senator I  am an ardent defender of the decentralisation of power where it is appropriate for administrative efficiency or political freedom. But when a State is abusing civil or political rights or is refusing to have examined whether it is abusing them, I believe this Parliament has a right and a duty to act. I would like an assurance from the Attorney that, if after a reasonable time- say, three yearsthe arrangements contemplated by clause 1 1 have not been achieved with all States, including the coverage of State legislation, he will be prepared to extend the operations of the Bill, which are at present limited to Commonwealth legislation, to cover State legislation as well. He would certainly be entitled to do this under the external affairs constitutional power. As a member of the international community in good standing, to use the Attorney's own words, I do not see how we can do less. 
If the Attorney-General is willing to give this assurance I am prepared to support the broad thrust of this Bill as an honest and potentially effective means of improving our civil and political rights and of meeting our obligations under the United Nations Covenant. But if the Attorney is unwilling or unable to give me an assurance of his determination to make the principles of this Bill effective throughout the whole Commonwealth, I am not prepared to support it for it would be a hollow sham. It might enable us to ratify the United Nations Covenant but we would not be behaving honourably. 
I understand that  Senator Lewis  will be moving an amendment to make the Human Rights Commission Bill sunset legislation. If it is not reenacted it will lapse in 1985. 1 do not oppose this concept but it does not really solve my problem. For one thing, 1985 is too far off. If we are to ratify the Covenant honourably, we must plan to make our legislation effective long before 1985. Worse still, what happens if the Government allows the Act to lapse in 1985 or introduces the same legislation again even though State cooperation had not been forthcoming? What would we do then? To withdraw formally from the UN Covenant on human rights that we had ratified would be acutely embarrassing internationally; but to continue when we were not meeting its obligations would be in some ways even worse. As a parliament and as a legislature we should avoid at all costs being confronted with this dilemma. 
Before we pass this Bill which is openly intended to enable the Government to ratify the UN Civil and Political Rights Covenant- if the amendments moved by  Senator Missen  and  Senator Evans  are accepted that would be made explicit- we must be sure that the Government is prepared if necessary to use its constitutional power within a reasonable time to ensure that the Bill is effective in all parts of the Federation without any limitations or exceptions. Without an unequivocal assurance to this effect from the Attorney-General, the Human Rights Commission Bill had better not be passed, and I shall vote accordingly. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
Was expenditure on post-graduate awards reduced from $9m to $8.8m in the 1 979-80 Budget. 
Did the post-graduate award remain at $4,200 per annum, and is it taxable. 
Will the value of the post-graduate award decrease by approximately 10 percent in real terms, during 1979-80. 
How many awards will be made in 1980, and how many: (a) have been; and (b) are anticipated to be made in 1979. 
Do post-graduates often work beside research assistants earning 2.5 times their allowance. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is the present status of the Government in Uganda? Is it a fact that Uganda is really under Tanzanian occupation with a puppet regime kept in power by Tanzanian guns? How do we distinguish the principles in Uganda from those in Kampuchea? In each case was not a horrible and genocidal regime deposed by external force and a puppet regime installed and kept in power by the invader? If there is no distinction in principle, why are we recognising the invaders in Uganda and the deposed regime in Kampuchea? Would it not be more sensible, in both cases, to withdraw recognition from both sides- as the United States, for instance, has done in Kampucheaand to work for a genuinely independent national government in each country? 
-I oppose this amendment. I accept the purpose which lies behind it, which is that we must make sure that this Bill will be effective and will justify us in ratifying the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. However, we live in a federal system and I think it is essential that first we should try to reach co-operative arrangements with the States. I have very great doubts whether this will be possible, but we must try. I would be heartened in my belief in this position if I could have an assurance from the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  that if the Senate passes this Bill, which is openly designed as a mechanism by which we can ratify the United Nations Covenant, the Government is determined to make the human rights legislation effective in Australia by any means in its constitutional power. I should like an assurance that it will try co-operative arrangements with the States and that if they do not work it will use its constitutional power to make the Bill effective. 

 Senator BONNER (Queensland)  C  1 1-19)  -  I wish just to indicate my support for the amendment moved by  Senator Missen.  I do so because we are not asking for the Human Rights Commission to go into the States and to change or condemn their laws. All we are asking is that there be an examination of:  . . any State Act or Northern Territory enactment or any law (including rules, regulations or by-laws) made under a State Act or Northern Territory enactment for the purpose of ascertaining whether the State Act, the Northern Territory enactment or the law, as the case may be, is inconsistent with or contrary to any human rights, and report to the Minister . . . 
This amendment simply asks the Commission to examine the Act or law and report back. Then perhaps, as  Senator Hamer  has suggested, the Minister may be able to negotiate with the Ministers of that State who are responsible for that law or Act. He may be able to negotiate, point out where it does offend against the Federal Human Rights Commission, and maybe he will be able to persuade them to change their law. 
It gets a little tiresome when we are trying to assist, change and bring amendments to legislation, because we believe that what we are doing is right and we are exercising the right of our conscience, and we continually receive criticism and innuendoes from God's gift to the Senate in the form of  Senator Evans.  He has been a member of Parliament for a short time. When the time comes that he has the courage of his convictions to vote against his party then I will doff my hat to him. 
I should like to make a few remarks about the aid to developing countries which we and other nations are providing. We are giving this year $485m in overseas aid. The world total is a staggering $US6 1,000m. It may not be as much as some people, particularly the recipients, would like, but it is still very substantial. I recently visited a number of developing countries as a representative of this Parliament and had the chance to see some of our aid projects on the ground. I mention three of these aid projects- two of them favourably, one doubtfully. 
The first of the satisfactory projects was PADAP- the Philippines-Australian Development Assistance Project- in Zamboanga Del Sur in Mindanao in the southern Philippines. The area is very backward. It is populated by immigrants who have arrived chiefly since the Second World War. There are virtually no roads. There is subsistence farming and fishing and a substantial insurgency problem. We have invested in this area a relatively modest $ 1 8m over five years but the project has been brilliantly successful. We have provided roads, bridges and irrigation and technical training for the Filipinos so that they can maintain these things. The gratitude of the locals to Australia is very moving. Of course, when we were there it was orchestrated, but it is still obviously underlyingly genuine. Thousands of school children were waving banners and Australian flags. They took the opportunity for a little propaganda, too. 'Thank you Australian Ministers', said one sign, 'Thank you for our roads'. 
'But what about a footbridge over the river near our school?'  Senator Bishop,  who just interjected, was present on that occasion. I think that he would agree with my comments. The second excellent project we saw was in the northern Thai province of Ching Mai. As the population has outgrown the irrigable river flats single crop rice growing has spread to the hill slopes. These areas have been farmed by the very inefficient slash and burn system. Under an Australia-Thai project, with the consent and co-operation of the villagers, the land is being cleared and ploughed and soil and water conservation is being organised. This project, too, is working well. These two projects are, I believe, successful because they build on what there is now and help the people to live just a little better. They are not socially disruptive like so many aid projects have been. 
One of our aid projects in Thailand seems to me to have the seeds of such destruction. I refer to an irrigation and hydro-electric dam on the River Kwai. However economically worthy the project, it will involve the flooding of four-fifths of the arable land in the river valley and the destruction of 43 villages. No satisfactory arrangements have been made for relocating the villagers. This seems to me- although I admit we did not see the project on the ground- to be an example of the destructive sort of aid which has been a feature of much of the aid from the World Bank and countries such as the United States: The bigger is better approach, and be damned to pilot studies and the social consequences. This approach gained its first monument with the illfated British post World War II ground nut scheme in East Africa, but there have been many similar monuments since then. 
On the whole, I think we can say that Australia has avoided most of the aid pitfalls and rackets. 
We have gone in for pilot schemes before embarking on major projects. We have generally tried to consider the social consequences. Our aid has been freely given; it has not been in the form of interest bearing loans, which is the way some other countries provide their aid. We have not used aid as a means of economic exploitation by tying the recipient into the economic order of the donor. We have, I think, given our aid wisely, on the whole. This is far from the pattern of world aid. I think it is time the Western world thought about what it is trying to achieve in its aid program for these under-developed countries. I am worried about the way in which much of the developed world is trying to remake the underdeveloped world in its own image- in other words, trying to turn those countries into industrialised nations. 
Over the last few years there has been a series of international conferences, including the seventh special session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1975 and the so-called northsouth dialogues, about how we can provide the Third World countries with more money, better technology and access to Western markets. Not much has resulted. The attempts to get the industrialised countries to give development assistance of as much as seven-tenths of one per cent of their gross national product as aid to the poor countries have been largely unsuccessful. Our percentage, which a few years ago reached the target, has now fallen back to just over fourtenths of one per cent. 
There have also been attempts to declare a moratorium on the debts of developing nations. Some countries have responded by wiping out the debts of the very poorest countries. This was not really very generous because there was no prospect whatever of the debts being paid anyway. It is true that most of the rest of the debts are not likely to be called in, but this is really because the default would hurt the lenders more than the borrowers, while rolling the debts over maintains the profits of the Western banks and the solvency of the entire system. It has been suggested that the prices of primary products should be indexed to the prices of industrial goods. There has not been much success with that idea either. In fact, since 1 973 the trend with most primary products has been for prices to slump while the finished industrial goods which the Third World has to import have gone up in price. A common fund to stabilise some primary products was also proposed, but not much of the money has been pledged. The poor countries that produce the raw materials really have no more control over what happens to them now than they did in 1973. Only in the case of oil have the producers been willing to combine to control output and thus price, and this was a near thing. It was made possible only by the unanimous detestation of Israel by most of the producers. Even then there was a division between Saudi Arabia, the main producer, and other more radical states. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing overseas aid and was pointing up the dilemma that the beneficial types of overseas aid are those that help people in a community to live a little better without destroying their social structure, but that this is a very slow method of improving the standards of the Third World. The one question to which we must address ourselves is: Why are some states rich and industrialised and others not? The usual explanation implies that it is some sort of accident of history, a mixture of available resources, climate or history. This is a very superficial explanation, except in the sense that everything which happens in human affairs is in some way an accident. 
When the legendary James Watt observed the lid of his mother's tea kettle lifting and deduced that therefore there was harnessable power inside the kettle nothing much would have happened if the intellectual conditions which made the exploitation of this power possible had not already existed. After all, many another tea kettle had boiled in many another place over many centuries with no other result but tea. The industrial revolution happened, and could only have happened, in a society that had developed a theoretical intellectual system, natural science and a pre-industrial technology of a high order. It is worth remembering that James Watt- that is, the real James Watt, not the legendary onewas a maker of mathematical instruments for a university. 
Another essential condition was an appropriate moral climate- religion if you like- which was activist and believed that human activities could have a purpose. But this, of course, only explains the origin of the industrialised society. Once the system is set up, the machinery invented, the division of labour established, surely anyone can copy it. In fact, up to a point this did happen. Europe became industrialised. So did North America and, for that matter, Australia. But the most phenomenal change occurred in Japan. Fifty years after the famous opening up of Japan by Commodore Perry in 1853 its feudal society had become not only an industrialised nation but also a prominent naval and military power in the Far East, able easily to defeat the Russian colossus. This Japanese model is worth thinking about very carefully because those who believe in what they call the new international economic order firmly believe that the Japanese experience was not exceptional; that it could be the norm. They remember the conscientious band of Japanese who, in the 1880s and 1890s went out to bring back the best of Western technology- to Germany to study the army and medicine; to France to study law; and to England to study naval science, railways, telecommunications and housing. 
It is argued that development is a matter of techniques to be learned and equipment to be provided and that that is something that any country can receive. The Third World lacks money, trained people and technology. Supply them, so the current argument goes, and economic development will automatically follow. But will it? Certainly, we would like to think so. It is difficult not to feel guilty about the gross imbalance of living standards, to contrast a child growing up in a Calcutta slum, or dying of starvation in Cambodia, with our own affluence. It would be nice to believe that the problem of the poor could be solved by the transference of men and machinery. Some critics accuse Western countries of greed and exploitation. Of course, sometimes, by no means always, they are right. 
That is not the real problem. The problem is that most people do not think the whole concept of Third World development is quite serious, believing that it cannot and will not work in the way in which it is supposed to work. But if the developed world could be convinced that this is not true, that this type of aid will achieve the results claimed, surely we would provide it. After all, the United States willingly devoted 1.67 per cent of its gross national product to the Marshall Plan for the reconstruction of Western Europe because it was clear that the job could be done and was being done. There can be no such confidence in conventional plans for the industrialisation of the Third World, but people do not like to say so because they have nothing else to offer that might have a serious effect on the world's poverty. 
What then is needed for a country to become industrialised, if what we have to offer is not enough? To run a factory requires workers and managers who want economic prosperity badly enough to spend a major part of their working lives doing things that are often boring, exhausting and unpleasant. Generally they need to be able to read and write, to understand machinery and to feel at home with it. But above all there must be generally accepted social assumptions about the meaning of their lives- about exploitation of the environment, the desirability of material possessions, the value of knowledge, the value of work. Perhaps it could all be summed up in the old-fashioned and rather inaccurate expression 'Protestant work ethic'. This is a bad name because the attitude is not essentially religious at all and certainly not exclusively Protestant. It is to be found in societies that are both nominally socialist and nominally Marxist, but it is confined to Europe and America and their white cultural dependencies, and to China and its cultural dependencies- Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. 
Is it reasonable to expect other countries to adopt this model and accept these standards? It requires a complete restructuring of their societies. Christopher Dawson has remarked that the great non- Western civilisations are 'ways of life in a much more definite and conscious sense than that of any national Western culture'. He added that each of their ways of life 'is penetrated from top to bottom by the same system of ideas, so that a man can give theological or metaphysical reasons for the way in which he cooks his dinner'. I am not saying that these non- Western civilisations are simple. They are of great subtlety and complexity. These Asian and African civilisations are, in fact, far more coherent than ours. Although this is a strength, there is also a wall of resistance to industrialisation and everything else that is included in the notion of development on the Western model. 
Nothing could be a greater contrast to the Protestant work ethic than India's Hinduism, a religion of natural order, of predestination manifest in fixed castes, with a transmigration of souls in union and reunion with the absolute spirit. It is hardly an accident that so many of India's modern entrepreneurs and industrialists are Parsees, that is Zoroastrians not Hindus. The Buddhism of Burma and Thailand is deeply nonmaterialistic. In the words of the Lord Buddha himself, 'man must renounce the craving for prosperity'. This is scarcely a religion for technicians, to say nothing of capitalists. Even Islam, a religion of surrender to the will of God, is basically more passive than Christianity. The Middle East and North Africa have had a long and close association with Western technology and organisation, both in pre-industrial times when Islam, at the peak of its power, colonised most of southern Europe and also in modern industrial times when Europeans controlled countries such as Egypt and Iraq. Yet there has been little spontaneous development on Western models and it is difficult to be optimistic about the industrialisation on the Western model. 
I  will  come back to India in a moment. India's steel industry is controlled by Parsees, not by Hindus. The recent revolution in Iran is a clear example of the difficulties and dangers of trying to impose the Western model on an Islamic society. It is true that some of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries- Saudi Arabia, for instance- are trying to use their oil revenues to build an industrial base. But will this survive the decline of their oil revenues or will their machinery then disappear back into the sand? 
We must recognise that societies whose fundamental structure is alien to the values and practices of industrialism cannot be changed merely by the injection of money, machines or technical instructors. For these societies to develop in the sense that that term is used at United Nations conferences would require a radical and destructive re-making of life and society and a reinterpretation by them of the meaning of existence. What is often put forward as a simple transfer of resources, techniques and information is, in fact, a revolution of the most momentous consequences. 
Of course, the elites of the Third World are committed to development. They have assumed the role of agents of progress. They may call themselves socialists or marxists, but the former Shah of Iran is their archtype. Their people are their victims. Describing the arrival on a Greek island of a few British technicians to build a radio relay station, Laurence Durrell, wrote that the intrusion destroyed: 
The tightly woven fabric of this feudal village, with its tense blood relationships, its feuds and archaic festivals. 
He continued: 
Its wholeness will dissolve under these alien pressures. It was so tightly woven, so beautiful and symmetrical like a swallow's nest. We are picking it apart like idle boys. It seems inescapable, the death we bring to the old order without wishing it. 
The complex interrelationship of the natural ecology is gradually being accepted. But human society is no less complex. We cannot tinker with one perhaps minor aspect of it, without being led inexorably into other aspects, until we have remade the whole society in our image, or more likely a corrupted version of it. What then are we to do about our overseas aid? This country has a commitment to Papua New Guinea. For better or worse we set its people on their development path and we have the responsibility of helping them along it. This we should not and cannot evade. 
The affluent world also has an obvious duty to provide humanitarian aid to those in need. Much of the world is starving and it would be a barbarous act if those countries with food surpluses refused aid to those in need. The arrangements for this type of aid and the encouragement of food production need much development. It is an economic and humanitarian outrage to see developed countries deliberately cutting back on their food production while people in other countries are starving. But what about so-called development aid? For reasons that I have advanced I am very sceptical of the value of much of it which seems designed to salve the consciences, and sometimes increase the wealth, of the donors rather than to help the Third World countries. 
We see in this country the effects of a combination of repression and misplaced aid in the destruction of the tribal life of our Aboriginal people and their consequent detribalised degradation. It seems that those who tried to help them the most did them the most harm. The connections are slight between high-minded public discussions at international conferences and what people really think, not to mention what really happens. The report last February of the United Nations Preparatory Committee on the New International Development Strategy, for instance, had among its objectives the transfer of technology to developing countries and increasing the share of developing countries in total world industrial production to at least 25 per cent by the year 2000. Not only will this not happen but also it would probably destroy many of the societies concerned if it did. It is high time that the developed world thought about what it is trying to do and what it is actually doing to the Third World countries. We, with our recent experience of the destruction of a primitive society in Australia, at least partly through misdirected assistance, should play a leading part in this agonising reappraisal. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. How does the Minister view the present campaign for a shorter working week as a means of reducing unemployment? Would those people working a shorter week take a pro rata cut in pay or would they demand the same pay for less work? If this happened, would not the consequent increase in hourly labour costs drive many firms out of business or cut back production, thereby increasing unemployment? In any case, for the firms not driven out of business, would not the likely result be, not the employment of the presently unemployed, but an increase in overtime by the current work force and a further increase in the costs of production? Is this not another cynical attempt by some militant unions- evidenced in other areas by attitudes to such things as crippling penalty rates- to gain maximum benefits for their members in work and to ignore the unemployed? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs: Is it a fact that it is now nearly 30 years since Australian forces became involved in the Malayan emergency, 14 years since Australian forces were involved in the confrontation operations in the defence of Malaysia and 1 7 years since the first Australian advisers were sent to Vietnam? Is it also a fact that in the case of the two world wars, official historians were appointed either during or immediately after the period of conflict and their works required many years of preparation? In view of the loss of valuable source material which is constantly occurring through the aging and death of key participants in these operations, when will the Government take action to commission official histories of Australia's part in these operations? Does the Minister agree that the Australian people should not have to wait for more than 30 years to have a thorough appraisal of the nation's participation in major military operations which involved the sacrifice of hundreds of Australian lives? 
I support the amendment. I do not believe that rights are effective unless there is some remedy. I do not think that a mere report to parliament is an effective remedy for someone whose rights have been infringed. I feel that this amendment is central to effective implementation of a human rights Bill and it is also necessary, I believe, if we are to ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which is the apparent intention of the Government. I think that anything less than this would not justify such ratification. 
I support the amendment. The arguments against conclusive certificates in fields such as this were set out very persuasively in the report of the Senate's Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee on freedom of information. Exactly the same arguments apply here. I supported them in that Committee and I support them now. 
I support the amendment which goes some way towards meeting my worries about the Bill. I would have preferred a shorter period than the five years which  Senator Lewis  has suggested but I understand that the opinion of the Senate is that five years is appropriate. The Bill goes some way towards alleviating my worries. I fear that we are undertaking international obligations without setting up the proper machinery to ensure that we can meet the obligations we are assuming. I was alarmed by a remark made by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  earlier in the debate when he said that the obligations we can undertake internationally are only those which can be agreed to by the States as well as by ourselves. That is a very timid way of looking at international obligations. We should be prepared to be more effective in ensuring that those rights are also effective throughout the country. For that reason I welcome the chance for the Senate and the Parliament in another few years to have a look at whether this legislation is working effectively. I do not believe it will be. I believe that when we look at it again we will have to make very substantial changes to it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Postponed clause 9, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill 
The Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
What is the estimated average annual total loss of life and property in Australia caused by fires. 
What is the estimated proportion of fires caused by cigarettes. 
Is there a Bill in the United States which would require cigarettes to self-extinguish within five minutes of the first puff. 
ls such a cigarette technically feasible. 
