Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It is with extreme pride but a little sadness that I rise to make my maiden speech in the Australian Parliament. It is indeed unfortunate to be elected to the Parliament at a by-election caused by the death of a good man. Frank Stewart was respected highly by the people of his electorate and by the members of this Parliament. He was a principled and forthright man. One knew what he stood for and why he stood for it. As a member of this Parliament for some 26 years, he held a number of high offices in this country, offices that reflected the confidence that his colleagues had in him. I add that as a member of the Government he had the confidence of the then Opposition when he was the first Minister for sport in the Australian Parliament. 
Frank served the people of Lang and Grayndler well. He was one of the great Irish Labor politicians who had experienced social inequality, as the Irish had, at first hand. They understood the necessity for social change and were a radical influence on the Australian Labor Party. They are part of the reason for the Labor Party's commitment to social justice which unfortunately in this day and age is not shared by the Government of this country. 
I am proud to stand here as the fourth member for Grayndler, a division which has always returned a Labor member. The three previous members- Fred Daly, Tony Whitlam and Frank Stewart- immersed themselves in the life of their electorate. I intend to carry on the tradition of being very much a constituency man in my electorate. For 3 1 of my 33 years, I have lived in Marrickville in the Division of Grayndler. The experience that I have had as an alderman of the Marrickville Municipal Council and in community activities in the south-west Sydney region have given me a great deal of knowledge and understanding of the social impact of government decisions on the lives of the people of my electorate. The last Budget has had a great impact on the people of my electorate. The people of Grayndler definitely need much assistance from governments and social welfare programs that can be funded only by the Federal Government. 
I pay a tribute to some of those who have helped me in my career in the Labor movement. But for the support of my parents and my wife and children I doubt whether I would have achieved this office. Over the last few weeks since becoming a member of Parliament I have come to know, as has my family, many of the tribulations that members of Parliament put up with that the general community has not been aware of. I suppose in a way that I should make some apology to all the members of the Parliament who are in the House at present and the exmembers of Parliament because as a party official of the Labor Party in New South Walesperhaps as you had in the past,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  I had cast disparaging remarks about some Labor parliamentarians. I know now, as you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that life is much different inside Parliament than it appears to be from the outside. 
In 18 years in the ALP, one finds that many of one's colleagues have an effect on one's career. I would like to mention a few people who have assisted me and who have always been willing to lend an ear and to give some help when it was necessary. I mention my good friend, John Ducker, who recently retired from the position of  President  of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party; Barry Unsworth, who is standing for election soon to the position of Secretary of the Labor Council of New South Wales; John Johnson, the  President  of the Legislative Council of New South Wales; my good friend, Graham Richardson, who is the State Secretary of our Party; and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  sitting on the front bench, who has been an old friend of mine since we were both young men active in the ALP even though he led me down the wrong aisle when I first came into this place some weeks ago. I thank those people and, most importantly, all the people in the ALP in Grayndler who were kind enough and who had enough confidence in me to select me as their candidate which allowed me to win my seat in this Parliament. The assistance of the people in my electorate in the byelection will remain in my mind for many years. I am also grateful for the help I received from the five local members af the New South Wales Legislative Assembly. They are also good sons of Grayndler. All the MLAs in the area of my electorate are Labor members as are most of the councillors. We have a pretty tight little operation in my electorate. I hope to see that situation continue for some time to come. 
In common with most inner city electorates, Grayndler is a predominantly working class electorate. The people in Grayndler were very hard hit by the mini-Budget in May. They looked forward to the Budget in August to give them some relief. Characteristically, this Government dashed their hopes. In some of the suburbs of my electorate slight variations in welfare, employment or economic policies can have a grave effect on the social fabric of the area. Fortunately, the Government rectified the mistake of 1978 and restored the twice-yearly adjustments to pensions. That mistake cost the pensioners of my electorate a great deal. I remind honourable members that there are almost 13,000 pensioners in my electorate, one of the largest groups of pensioners in any Federal electorate in Australia. The mistake of this Government cost those people $60 each. Unfortunately, many of those people could not afford that amount. 
On Tuesday, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  told the House that unemployment was being reduced. He said that the number of people unemployed had fallen considerably during the term of this Government. Unfortunately, I cannot say that that situation applies to the electorate of Grayndler. Information from the Marrickville and Campsie Commonwealth Employment Service offices which are in my electorate shows that 8,106 people are seeking work and that there are 145 advertised job vacancies. That is not an abberration; that is structural unemployment. It is something that this Government will have to consider and for which it will have to provide policies to ensure that that situation is alleviated. In June 1979, of those registered at the Marrickville CES office, over 1,000 people had been out of work for more than 65 weeks. That is hardly a passing phenomenon. Most of those registered had been out of work for periods exceeding two weeks. In fact, only 297 of the 4,700 people registered at the Marrickville CES office had been looking for work for less than two weeks. To my mind that is one of the most damning indictments of this Government. If 1,000 people have been out of work for 65 weeks, one cannot say that they do not want work. It is very hard to say that they do not want work if only 145 jobs are advertised as vacant and 4,700 people are applying for them. 
The present Government has nothing to offer the unemployed. There is no work and no assistance for those people who cannot get work. The Government continues to consider the unemployed to be second class citizens. The previous  speaker  in this debate, the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  said precisely that. If the Government had any intention of helping the unemployed, it would first have agreed to lift the level of extra allowable weekly income for unemployed people from $6 to $20 as is allowed for other recipients of social security benefits. The $6 limit has not been changed since 1969; thus no encouragement is given to the unemployed to seek casual work. This deprives the young unemployed of valuable work experience. It is very difficult for an unemployed person seeking work of an employer who asks: 'What have you done before?' The applicant has to say that he has been out of work for a few months. Someone who has done a bit of work will be taken on. The people who have been put out of work by technological change need retraining and some form of work experience to keep their minds and bodies active. The present Government discourages this to the extent that if an unemployed person earns more than $6 a week he will lose some of his unemployment benefit. That is not a government with any sort of social conscience. That is a government that believes the unemployed are people who are morally wrong. I do not think any of us should in all conscience accept that. The 1979-80 Budget has further widened the gap between single unemployment beneficiaries and other social security beneficiaries. The benefit for single unemployed persons has not been increased for two years, and their benefit increases are no longer tied to the increases in the consumer price index. Unlike increases for other pensioner and beneficiary groups, their increases are now subject to budgetary discretion. The situation is that the Government- members of the Executive huddled together- can afford to discard the single unemployed. Unfortunately, the Government does not see many of the unemployed and they are left to rot on the vine in the inner city suburbs. 
In November the pension for single pensioners will increase to $57.90. The single unemployed will still receive only $5 1.45. 1 do not see how an unemployed person can live on less money than a pensioner. I think it costs all Australians about the same. I do not think the unemployed can buy goods cheaper and I do not think the unemployed can live cheaply. The Government seems to think so. As I said, unemployed people under 18 years have not received an increase in benefit since 1975. Since this Government came into office it has said that there was no need to increase the benefit for young unemployed. I do not know how anyone can live on $36 a week. Those honourable members on the other side who are smiling obviously do not know either. I would like to see some of them try to do so. 
In Grayndler unemployment is a chronic condition, not a temporary aberration. The present Government should consider that and should consider the plight of people who are so much worse off than we are. Unfortunately the Government tends to treat the unemployed as industrial and social flotsam. The Government should reconsider its programs and make more money available for job creation programs instead of cutting retraining grants and the money that is available for other types of assistance. The Government has not improved the standard of living for Australian families. We have heard much carping in this Parliament over the last few weeks about what the Government has done for Australian families. It has done absolutely nothing. The Government has been living on credit for the family allowance which it introduced some years ago. I think everyone in the Parliament would agree that the family allowance was a good innovation. This year the Government has brought in one other innovation, that of extending eligibility for a pensioner health benefits to supporting parents. The Government is responsible for two innovations; two creative actions in four years! That does not make a Government with any son of conscience, let alone a social conscience. 
The Government has not increased family allowances this year even though it seems to think that is the jewel in its social welfare crown. Families in my electorate are having a harder and harder time making ends meet. Spiralling health costs have added to their burden. Migrant families are now finding out about the con job that has been done on them by the Government over the tax deductibility for overseas dependants. They are filling in their tax returns now and finding that the Government by stealth has taken away the right that they had to claim as a tax deduction dependants who are living overseas. I do not know whether the next move by this Government will be to try to take away the tax deductibility provisions for those dependants who live in Australia. Maybe the Government will take it away for those who live in Tasmania because the Government might consider them to be overseas. However they might buy some apples, and that would solve the problem. 
The plight of families in Australia, as I have said, is one which is not bright at all at present. As a parent with three young children, I worry what their future will be if the present Government should run this country for much longer. It is attacking most of the areas that affect young married people. It is attacking most of the areas which all members of this Parliament hold dear, that is, the right of equal opportunity for all. In real terms the Government has cut education funding by telling the States that it had to reallocate a number of its budgetary programs. This has cut education funding across-the-board throughout Australia. My electorate in particular has been hurt by this cut because Grayndler, as I have said, as an inner city electorate, has for many years suffered the harsh reality of a Federal Liberal-Country Party government which has said that the children of the poor exist just as industrial cannon fodder. We have seen the educational opportunities for the children of my generation and my own children who have gone to schools in my electorate slowly but surely sink into the mire. 
In 1972 when the Whitlam Labor Government came to power a good deal of that changed. 
We saw the educational opportunities for children in the inner city areas changed. They got better. There was hope once again for the children of working people. The present Government has cut much of those funds. The effect has been that innovative teaching programs have had to be reduced and the in-service training programs have had to be curtailed. The disadvantaged children who attend schools in the inner city areas have lost out again. As usual, the ones who are least able to fight back are the ones who have suffered most. To my mind, that is a scandal. The reduction in spending on the community language program in the inner city areas of Sydney and Melbourne has caused a great problem in the schools. In some of the schools in excess of 50 per cent of the children in their first year at school are unable to speak English. The cuts in community language programs have onece again forced the creation of divisions which occurred in the past. This Government, despite what it has done with the Galbally report, stands condemned for that problem. 
Families are being forced to seek two incomes to keep up with the current spiralling cost of living. Women are being forced to work part time. But what has the Government done to extend child care services in the inner city areas? It has done practically nothing. The Government has said that this year child care funding is to be increased by 1.03 per cent, but what it has not told the public at large is that in that increase it has lumped the cost of child care facilities in the Northern Territory. In fact, nothing has changed. Because in New South Wales there is a large number of private child care centres and kindergarten union centres, which are not long day care centres, the children in the inner city areas of Sydney have been further disadvantaged. The families in those areas have had to consider the dire economic implications of that. People who have to pay $45,000 for a two-bedroom semidetached home and have to find money to service their mortgage are in real strife, especially if the husband is on $7,000 a year and his wife is trying to find part time work, in competition with 4,700 others in the electorate who are out of work. 
The Government's claims that it helps the families of Australia are shown by the figures in the Budget to be manifestly false. The same thing happened in the 1976-77 Budget. New South Wales is once again sadly disadvantaged because of the inadequate provision for child care in the inner cities. If one looks at the amount of funds provided for long day care and family day care schemes in Victoria and compares that with what was being spent in New South Wales one sees where the Government's political  airlegiances  lie. Funding for children's services is supposed to have risen by 16 per cent. Unfortunately when one looks at the level of expenditure and inflation, which the Government itself says will be at least 10 per cent in the coming 12 months, it can be seen that the amount of money being made available for children's services in Australia has been reduced in real terms by 2.4 per cent. This is from a government that says it cares about the family. That is from a government that says it believes in the rights of the little people. 
On 23 June the people of Grayndler said what they felt about the mini-Budget in May. They also said, I believe on behalf of Australia, that they thought the Government should look again at its policies. Unfortunately, we have seen in this present sitting that the Government has not. The Australian people are looking for leadership. Business is calling out for an increase in consumer spending. People need work. Bank deposits are the highest in Australia's history and they are high because of the all-pervading fear of retrenchment and dismissal. What has been the Government's response to these dire national problems? We have experienced only broken promises and a phoney $4m television program to get people working. We should find better ways to motivate Australian people than promoting a television program and thereby putting money in the pockets of the television advertising agencies and the pockets of the large companies that control the television stations in Australia. 
Australians do not want circuses. They want competent leadership and a sense of unity. The Government has failed in that task, a task that the Government set itself in 1975 and again in 1977. We have seen that most despicable advertisement with a fistful of dollars which this Government was going to give to Australian families. We now know that that fist was the dead hand of the Liberal-Country Party Government taking money away from working Australians. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the previous members for Grayndler have always been men who have fought for social justice in their State, in their Party and in this Parliament. With the assistance of my colleagues I hope to continue that fight in this Parliament. 
This evening I wish to raise with the House the question of the mooted extensions to Sydney airport and the report of the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study. For some time now a number of members of this House have raised questions about when that report will be finalised. In 1976 the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study was set up. That study was supposed to report by December 1977. It is now September 1979 and the report has still not been brought down. One could suggest that the committee of inquiry into Sydney airport has taken longer to bring on a baby than does an elephant. I hope that the result will not be as big a disaster as that. 
I have received a number of complaints and questions from people in my electorate who are most concerned about any extensions to the airport. They are asking questions about the effect on their property values and their lifestyles. They want to know what is going to be the result of the MANS inquiry. Last year, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  told a number of local government representatives in Canberra that the report would probably be out in May of this year. The month of May has come and gone and there has been no reply. In fact, in reply to a telegram of mine earlier this year the Minister said that the report of the MANS inquiry would be brought out as soon as practicable. I ask: What is meant by that? The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon),  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and I are doing our best to get that report presented. I have not heard anything from the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  who are also vitally affected - 
-That is the reply that one receives. They say: 'Why don't you ask  Mr Wran?'  I would remind the honourable member for Dundas that there is a little thing called Commonwealth responsibility in relation to civil aviation. This Government has consistently stood behind what it says that the State Government should do. The Government knows quite well that it is a decision that it has to make, that the Minister for Transport and his Country Party and Liberal Party colleagues are the ones who will have to make that decision. They are playing volleyball with the lifestyle of the people of Grayndler, Kingsford-Smith and the surrounding electorates. Their property values are under threat and they are worried about what is to happen. The Government is not willing to make a decision. We are saying that that decision should be made, and should be made soon. The people deserve to know what is happening and they should not have to put up with the sort of reply that we get from  Mr Nixon  relating to the - 
-On Saturday afternoon the eyes of eastern Australia will be on one of the local institutions in my electorate. On Saturday afternoon the CanterburyBankstown Rugby League Club will be facing the first grand final it will be successful in since 1949. A number of members of Parliament may think that that is a rather mundane thing to speak about in the adjournment debate, but Canterbury-Bankstown Club is a club that, of all football clubs including those in other States of Australia, is a local club. It is a club that has spent much time developing local juniors and plays district football at its best. Maybe some of the honourable members from Queensland only want to talk about Rugby Union. 

 Honourable members interjecting; 

asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
Did his Department refuse to reveal salaries of Ambassadors and High Commissioners to the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Nationwide;  if so, what was the reason when salaries of politicians and other high ranking officers are made public. 
What are the salaries paid to all Australian Ambassadors and High Commissioners. 
This evening I would like to raise a matter which affects a number of young people in my electorate and, I dare say, in the whole of the Sydney metropolitan area. Recently I directed the attention ofthe House to publicity in the metropolitan media of Sydney concerning a matter which I hope the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will duly note. I refer to the fact that the Institute of Technology in Sydney has been conducting a bachelor of arts course in communication but recently has curtailed the course and told most of the more than 100 students enrolled that it will be wound down during this semester. That will inflict grave hardship upon a number of young people who enrolled in good faith. Because of either maladministration in the Institute of Technology or in the Commonwealth Department of Educationwhich is responsible for the funding of universities and colleges of advanced educationongoing funding for this course has not been provided. It might be suggested that 138 first year students in a BA degree course are not worth taking much account of. However, to those 138 students it represents the most crucial decision in their lives. They enrolled in good faith and in some instances gave up places in other metropolitan tertiary institutions to do so. They now find that because of lack of funding the course has been discontinued. That is a deplorable situation. 
As we have learnt from a number of speeches that have been made in this Parliament in recent weeks, youth unemployment in New South Wales and Australia is rising. These young people, who have attempted to educate themselves and gain a valuable qualification now find that because of circumstances beyond their control they will not be able to complete that education. In fact, they find that they are being excluded from other courses in which they might otherwise have enrolled. I would hope that this Parliament and the Minister for Education would take note of their plight and that in the next few weeks some recourse will be opened to them so that their plans for additional education will come to fruition. A matter of thousands of dollars- not hundreds of thousands or millions, such as this Parliament usually deals in- is preventing these young people from completing their degree courses. It is a deplorable situation. Either the Commonwealth Department of Education or the Institute of Technology administration should be severely censured for the problems that they have caused these young people. I hope that some action is taken to ensure that the present situation does not continue. 
To the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  it might appear to be a rather funny matter. He has managed to get himself an education, but the people who are attending the Institute of Technology in the main are students from the inner city suburbs of Sydney, people who have worked their way through high school to ensure that they will do a little better in the world. It behoves the Parliament to consider the matter seriously. I would hope that when the Minister reads of the matter in  Hansard  he will take it under consideration and ensure that funding will be provided so that the students who have been undertaking the BA course in media study at the New South Wales Institute of Technology will be able to continue that course and fulfil their aspirations. 
-The honourable member could do with some education, instead of sitting there looking like a frog. He is reputed to be quite good with figures. In fact, he has the best rubbery figures around. All that these young people want is a fair go. They do not want to be robbed of that by stockbrokers and phoney members from the outer metropolitan areas. They want to get an education. This Government should assist them to do so. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
What guildlines are there for the secondment of public servants to the staff of 
Ministers, 
b ) Government backbenchers, 
Opposition shadow ministers and 
d ) Opposition backbenchers for short or long terms. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the fact that Federal revenues from motorists are estimated to treble this year compared with 1975-76, how does he explain the substantial reduction in the Commonwealth's share of outlays on road maintenance and construction from 2.73 per cent in the 10 years to 1973-74 to 1.76 per cent in the period since 1973-74, as pointed out by the National Roads and Motorists Association in its recent publication? Will the Government soon give Australian motorists a fair share of their petrol dollars? 
-When one listens to the outpourings of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  it is obvious that he has had no experience in local government. 
-He has had absolutely none. 
Bearing in mind paragraph 3.2S of the guidelines issues by the Public Service Board, which were read out by the honourable member for Melbourne yesterday, can the Minister for Defence indicate whether the recently mentioned Army officer sought permission or guidance from the permanent head of the Department of Defence or the Public Service Board prior to taking up employment with Ford Aerospace and Communications Corporation? I ask the Minister to bear in mind also this officer's recent experience in the Army and as the Government's representative on the committee of inquiry into an international satellite proposal. 
-This evening I bring to the attention of the House the plight of the Canterbury Community Youth Support Scheme. Today I received advice from the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  that that scheme had received $26,616 for the half-year program this year. That amount is a reduction of 10 per cent on the grant that that scheme received last year. In real terms it is a reduction of about 20 per cent. When one considers that this Canterbury scheme is a most successful multilingual, multicultural scheme- probably one of the most successful schemes in the metropolitan area of Sydney- it is a crying shame that the Minister has seen fit to provide a 10 per cent across the board reduction to it. Those running the scheme receive enough subsidy to provide three salaries. In fact, they have four part time workers- two Arabic speaking people and two English speaking people. 
In 1977-78, 960 young people went through the scheme in the Canterbury area. This month nearly 800 people under 21 years of age who are out of work are registered with the Campsie Commonwealth Employment Service office, and 30 job vacancies are registered as being unfilled. Arabic speaking people constitute 45 per cent of those who have gone through this scheme in Canterbury. I submit to the Parliament and to the Minister- unfortunately he has not seen fit to come into the chamber tonight even though I did ring his office to let him know I would be raising this question during the adjournment debatethat this is a special case that should receive a sympathetic hearing from the Government. There are very few community youth support schemes that have such a high ethnic content as the Canterbury one. Very few schemes have taken positive steps to ensure that the cultural and work experience of all the people in the electorate are taken care of. 
I submit that the Minister should reconsider his decision to reduce the Canterbury scheme funding by 10 per cent and that in view of the very good job that is being done for migrant children in the community in Canterbury in my electorate of Grayndler he should give the scheme personnel some special consideration to ensure that they can keep up the job they have been doing over the last three years and do not have to dismiss staff. 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
-The principal Act associated with the Social Services Amendment Bill that we are discussing tonight is probably the most complex and comprehensive Act to be administered by this Parliament. The administrative arrangements that go with the Act are a labyrinth of contradictions and double benefits. This particular Bill will go further to compound that error. In my mind there is a need for this Act to be completely overhauled and for a new standardisation of benefits that will be payable to social service recipients. At present, we need to be a lawyer or a social worker to understand the entitlement. It is very difficult for the ordinary person in the street- let alone honourable members of Parliament- to understand. We do not know what to advise people as to their rights. 
This particular Bill endeavours to implement some of the proposals put forward in the Budget. One of those proposals involves the twice-yearly indexation of pensions, which this Government was forced to reintroduce by the urgings of the Opposition. It was a very costly mistake that the Government made some years ago when it took away the indexation of pensions. It was a mistake from which a number of pensioners in my electorate are still endeavouring to recover financially. We would welcome the extensions of fringe benefits for supporting parents. Unfortunately, a number of people who should be receiving fringe benefits are not. I refer in this instance to people on superannuation schemes, particularly Fourth Division Commonwealth public servants who find that, when there is a small increase in their superannuation, they go past the fringe benefit threshold and they thus have removed all the normal concessions such as the pensioner medical card, the rebate on telephone rentals and, in New South Wales, the rebate on local government rates, water rates, electricity rates and transport concessions. These are the sorts of things that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his second reading speech suggested were worth about $10 a week to a pensioner. These are conservatively estimated to be worth at least $20 a week to a person who is on a small superannuation pension. If this Government had been fair and reasonable it would have gone some way to providing some equity for its own public servants who find themselves in this iniquitous position. 
I would like to deal with the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  and to deal with some of the matters touched on by that amendment. The Opposition has proposed that there should be twice-yearly indexation of pension benefits for unemployed people without dependants. That section of the unemployed accounts for about 75 per cent of those people who are receiving the unemployment benefit. This Government has made a great point about what it is doing for the unemployed. When the real situation is considered I am sure that you will understand,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as should the people of Australia, that this Government continues to belt the unemployed at every chance it gets and in every way that it can. 
The young and the old people do not receive indexation of the unemployed benefit, and they are the two groups which in most instances need assistance. The older people who are being put out of work are, in the main, those who are being displaced by technological change and who find it very hard to find new work in the area in which they have some competence. Their cost of living is going up by about 10 per cent per annum, and they usually have more expenses than do married people or people living at home with their parents. The Government's not indexing those benefits is a cruel impost on those people who have given their lives and their work for the benefit of this country. The Labor Party has proposed that the unemployment benefit for those people under 18 years of age should be increased. There has been no increase in the benefit for unemployed young people since April 1975. The benefit has remained at $36 a week since that date. Inflation over that period has reduced the value of that $36 by about 60 per cent. Low income families are having a further impost placed upon them and they are having difficulty supporting their adolescent dependants who are out of work. The poverty cycle has increased once again because of this Government. 
The Labor Party has suggested the removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period of the so-called voluntary unemployed and those who fail the work test. In the past the normal discretion that was allowed the Commonwealth Employment Service was that it could postpone the payment of the unemployment benefit to a person for up to six weeks. This Bill provides that there should be a mandatory non-payment period of six weeks to 12 weeks. In many instances, as my colleague, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  has pointed out, there are particular mitigating circumstances surrounding the reason that people leave jobs. Some people are too old for the arduous work that they may have been engaged in over a number of years. In many instances people in their late 40s and late 50s might find themselves working on permanent night shift and that they cannot take that sort of work any longer. They may be doing arduous work in manufacturing processes, find that they cannot do the work any longer, and decide for health reasons that they would like to change their jobs. If they continue with their work they know that their life span will be shortened. But this Government says that that is voluntary unemployment. 
In a number of instances people have to leave their place of employment for genuine family reasons. They may be having problems with their wives and children or they may be having problems in relation to the distance they live from their work, which was an example given by the honourable member for Werriwa. The most odious of reasons for some people having to leave their employment is that of sexual intimidation which young women sometimes find is imposed upon them by some employers. That is not the sort of reason that a person is willing to give to the CES office for leaving a job. It is not the sort of thing that someone is willing to talk about in a country town, if that is where the person is working. The person concerned just has to leave her job. 
This Government then says: 'You won't be paid the unemployment benefit for at least six weeks, and we will probably put you off for a little bit longer. ' That is nothing less than a fine against those who are unemployed. It points up the eighteenth century attitude that this Government has to the unemployed. Its attitude is that if someone does not have a job then he or she is unworthy and deserves to pay a penalty. As has been pointed out this evening, that penalty can range from about $300 to about $ 1 , 100 for what, in many instances, is something that has happened without the person concerned having any control over the circumstances involved. More than 20 people are out of work for every job vacancy registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service at present, but very few people voluntarily become unemployed. The provision contained in the Bill is a particularly iniquitous one and the Government should be ashamed of itself for instituting it. The Labor Party has suggested that the provision for refusing unemployment and special benefits for those people who are unemployed through industrial action should be removed from the Bill. 
This provision is an example of the Government's desire to use the Social Services Act as an industrial sledge-hammer. If the Government wishes to attempt to prevent strikes, it should do that through industrial legislation and not by means of the Social Services Act which is designed to help those people in need. Section 107 of the Act provides that a condition of eligibility for the unemployment benefit under that section of the Act is that the claimant must satisfy the Director-General that he is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike. The Government is attempting to widen the catch-all provisions of that section to ensure that anyone who is associated with any union that may be on strikeo is in a particular area and who is stood down shall not receive the unemployment benefit. An example of that is given in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 1 October 1979. An article which is concerned with a vehicle builders strike states: 
They said an example was a stoppage by the Vehicle Builders Union in South Australia which led to the standing down of workers at plants in Victoria because of lack of work and shortage of parts. The legislation to be introduced today will virtually return the Act to the position before 1 973. 
What effect could those vehicle builders in Victoria have on a decision that is arrived at by a completely autonomous branch of the union in South Australia? They could have no effect. We could have the ridiculous situation where under the provisions of this Act, if the electricians or the power workers and the members of the Electrical Trades Union of Australia in some State decided to put on bans and limitations any electrician or member of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union covered by the electricians award could find that he could be stood down in some industry although he has had absolutely nothing to do with the decision taken by the group of workers in some other part of the State or country. That man will find that he is being penalised and his family and children are being penalised for a decision that he had absolutely nothing to do with. 
But to make sure that the Government catches as many people as it can it has provided for a very wide definition of a trade union. The definition of a trade union in this Bill includes any organisation or association of employees, whether corporate or unincorporate, that exists or is carried on for the purpose, or for purposes that include the purpose, of furthering the interests of its members in relation to their employment. That definition could cover anything. It could cover a deregistered union or it could cover a union for management people. It could even cover the Australian Medical Association or the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia. But one can bet one's life that the Government will not be taking action against those organisations. Who is going to decide who is and who is not in a union. Is the Government going to ask the employers to give it that information? I can assure the House that the unions are not going to make their records available to members of the Government so that the Government can find out who are members of the union. What happens to people who are in two unions- those who may belong to a professional association as well as a union. They are going to find that they will be in a situation where they cannot win no matter what they do. 
I refer to one of the other Bills with which we are dealing at present, namely, the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill. I am pleased to see that a number of Polish people in my electorate who fought for the Polish army during the war will find that their benefits will be increased. I do not think that this Bill goes far enough because the Greek and Yugoslav partisan groups who have records and who have a very active association in Australia are denied the benefits of the provisions of this Bill. I suggest that the Government should reconsider the position of those people and reconsider the very fine job that those groups did during the Second World War. 
The Government should consider also the plight of the merchant seamen who found after the war that they were denied most of the benefits provided under the Repatriation Act. The Toose report, which this Government commissioned, recommended that seamen's war pensions and allowances legislation be reviewed with a view to bringing conditions of eligibility and benefits as close as possible to those in repatriation legislation. In reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Prospect on 7 June 1979 in this House the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  said that to do this would cost only $3. 54m. I put to the House that the Government has had sufficient time since the Toose report was brought down to take proper action and to include merchant seamen in the provisions of the Repatriation Act. The merchant seamen took a lot of risks during the war. They were probably more at risk than people in the Royal Australian Navy or the navies of other countries. The Government should take some action to ensure that the rights of the merchant seamen who served this country during the Second World War are protected and that they are given a fair go. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Is it a fact that the Australian Information Service operates under a charter which defines for it an apolitical and purely external role of providing information about Australia? Is the Australian Information Service, despite this charter, required to supply the Prime Minister with a daily summary of news published within Australia? On what basis is this demand made on the services of AIS? Why is such a service for the Prime Minister not provided by his own Press office or even the Government Information Unit which has senior staff in Canberra and in four States and will soon, I understand, have such staff in every State capital city? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in his personal explanation. 
-The honourable member called into doubt my integrity because I supported the proposition of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  which is recorded in the  Hansard  on the date in question. 
I have been misrepresented in that I alleged that what the honourable member for Hunter said was true. The honourable member for Hunter has supported that here today. I think that the calling into doubt of my integrity by the honourable member for Macarthur was improper. 
This evening I would like to talk about a rather interesting organisation in New South Wales called the Institute of Public Affairs. I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  is in the House this evening because I am sure that he will know some of the people I intend to speak about. This organisation has been in existence in New South Wales for a number of years. It has run some rather crackpot campaigns on occasions on various issues. 
At present the organisation is starting to take a very moralistic tone and it is starting to indicate that it has some influence on the Liberal Party of Australia. I am pleased to see that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is interested in speaking up on this matter. I hope that the organisation does not have any influence over him because it would be very unfortunate for a number of the less better off people in this community. The Institute of Public Affairs is very careful about what it stands for and, in fact, it is very careful about anyone knowing who is in it. In its major publication- which is its program of action for 1979- it lists a number of things as being amongst its objectives. One of those is to maintain the right of free speech and peaceful assembly. That, of course, is something we would all accept. We would all accept that that is a very fair proposition. 

 Government members interjecting. 

-Before the baying members on the other side of the House get too involved, they ought to be very careful about what this little organisation considers should be free speech. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  said tonight that he did not mind a person with an open mind, but he did not like someone who had nothing in his mind. He used words to that effect. This organisation has some very fixed ideas on matters. One of its objectives is to assess the impact of radical teaching in education. If it was only to assess it, that would be fair and reasonable, but it goes on to say: 'and how it should be countered'. It goes on to say that it will be running a program to ensure that there is no such thing as compulsory unionism and that it will be dealing with a number of constitutional matters that it hopes will be disseminated throughout the schools. From what the Institute says one could infer that the Government will be able to provide assistance. I hope that the Treasurer, who is telling us tonight what a great organisation this is, will not be providing any Government money for this organisation to put its rather perverted ideas into the schools in New South Wales. The organisation is trying to make out that it is non-political and non-sectarian. But one remembers the rather hysterical campaign that the organisation ran when the referendum was held in New South Wales to consider whether there should be a democratic election of the New South Wales Upper House. Being a rather secret organisation, it was not all that interested in having democratic elections in the New South Wales Upper House. In reply to a letter written to a person inquiring about the organisation, it said: 
This brochure gives names of our council. 
It puts the following words in parenthesis: 
There are no ordinary members. 
But I note that  Mr J.  H. Valder has taken over as  president  in recent months. He is a man very well known to the honourable member for Mackellar and the Treasurer. Of course, one raises the question of who elects these members of the organisation and what purpose one has in electing them. I might say that there are some well known members. They include  Sir David  Griffin who is another well known non-political person; Professor Hogan, a man well known to the Treasurer;  Sir John  Pagan, a man well known to both the honourable member for Mackellar and the Treasurer as he was instrumental in them coming to this House;  Mr Valder  and  Mr Simpson,  who is the well known non-political director of the Civic Reform Association, which is the local Government front of the Liberal Party in New South Wales. But the interesting area that this Government and this Parliament should be very carefully looking at in respect of this organisation is where it says: 
Bearing in mind this developing situation, one is forced to ask several questions- 
It is referring to the welfare spending in this country. It goes on: 
Do the elderly have an inalienable right to live off decreasing numbers of working population? Should the relatively affluent be permitted to arrange their affairs so as to be able to live entirely off the pension? 

 Mr Samuel points out: 
. why do women need to be paid a pension at 60 in these days of women's lib, while men wait until 65? 
Those are the sorts of ideas that this organisation, which is very well connected with the Liberal Party, would like to see the Government adopt. I think that we may even hear the Treasurer and the honourable member for Mackellar espousing those views. Think of their idea of sin and how people should pay. They said: 
It should be noted that only 48 per cent of widows' pensions . . . were paid to those whose husbands had died; 52 per cent went to deserted wives, divorcees, et cetera. 
In the opinion of the Institute of Political Affairs - 
-I wish to raise the question of children's services in this debate, as they were outlined in the appropriations for the Department of Social Security. In particular, I would like to talk about the provision of pre-school facilities and children's services in New South Wales. I share the concern of a number of my constituents about this subject. I represent an inner city electorate where we have been deprived over a period of these types of services. I would like to incorporate a table in  Hansard.  I have sought the permission of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and he has agreed to its incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910254_53_3.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows the number of four-year-old children who are attending pre-schools in the States of Australia. In New South Wales 38.6 per cent of the fouryearolds attend pre-school. The percentage rises up to 89 per cent in Tasmania. The national average is 63.6 per cent. The reason for this rather shocking disparity between New South Wales and other States is caused by a number of historical factors. When one looks at what has occurred in children's services in New South Wales, one is quite concerned about the position. Prior to 1973, under the former Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales, about 25c per child per annum was being spent on children's services. During the same period in Victoria, which had a more enlightened form of liberalism in control, the State Government was spending approximately $2 per child per annum. One should be quite concerned about the approach that the New South Wales Government took. 
When the Whitlam Labor Government came to power in 1 972 and the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was the Minister in charge of children's services, we saw quite a change in all States except New South Wales. There were considerable difficulties in getting the New South Wales Liberal Government to come to an agreement with the Commonwealth regarding the provision of funds for child care. In fact, when the former Labor Government introduced the interim pre-school program in 1973-74, the readiness of States to take up the capital grants offered under that program and to engage in efficient planning varied considerably. 
There is no question but that the significant capital funds made available to the States by the Commonwealth were used in varying degrees of effectiveness. Between 1973 and 1978 the number of pre-schools in Australia increased by an estimated 60 per cent- from 2,472 to 3,95 1 pre-schools. The number of children enrolled in those pre-schools increased by approximately 80 per cent, from 121,000 to 218,000 children. It was significant that in that period the New South Wales Government showed that it was not willing to co-operate. That is an indictment of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was the Minister in charge of this area he entered into written agreements with the States to provide 75 per cent recurrent funding for child care services and a sum of $60,000 towards the capital cost of child care units. He should be congratulated. Indeed, the people who formed the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission, and particularly the two Children's Commissioners in New South Wales,  Mr Lex  Gray and Miss Trisher Kavanagh, should be congratulated. They worked very hard to raise the level of pre-school education available in New South Wales. 
The present Government has considerably changed the guidelines that were introduced by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he was the responsible Minister. In fact, when  Mrs Coleman,  who heads the Office of Child Care, appeared before Estimates Committee A, she said: 
Perhaps I should say that the policy of the Government for some years now has been that pre-school education is essentially a State government responsibility. 
That is a far cry from the provisions that were made available between 1972 and 1975. 1 put to the Parliament that the present Government has a moral obligation to assist the children in New South Wales. The reason why that State is behind at present is the tardy approach to this matter by previous Liberal-Country Party governments in that State. The present Premier of New South Wales and the present Minister for Youth and Community Services,  Mr Jackson,  have taken up the challenge. The State Government, in its Budget for this year, provided a considerable amount of money for the provision of pre-schools and children's services in New South Wales. The Federal Government should be willing to accept that there is a need in that State. The system of providing block grants on the basis of the number of children at present in a pre-school, which militates against the funds provided for New South Wales, should be reconsidered. When  Mrs Coleman  appeared before Estimates Committee A, she also said: 
The block grant itself is allocated on the basis of the number of children who were attending pre-schools in each State. A quantum was fixed by the Cabinet and information was sought from the State on the numbers of children attending in the year prior to school entry and the quantum was apportioned on a percentage basis. That obviously has been influenced by the extent of the development of preschool facilities in each State. 
At that meeting my colleague the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  went on to say: 
Under the true Liberal principle that the more you have the more you are going to get. 
I do not think that that is a very suitable way to be dealing with the educational facilities that we make available to young children in Australia. I would hate to see the children of my State- in particular, the children of my electorate- suffer because of that. I hope the Department and the Government will look again at the provision of those funds in New South Wales in particular next year. From the report of Estimates Committee A we can see that there has been a move away from the funding of child care facilities under the Child Care Act to the funding of facilities under what is called centre-based funding. In many ways I would support that move because it provides for smaller units, which gives much more flexibility to planning. If there is a decline in the pre-school population in a particular area, it enables the buildings to be recycled for other community uses. That is a laudable idea. There is less capital cost involved and there is more community involvement. 
The only failing of that system at present is that it costs considerably more to run these community-based child care facilities and there is a need for more recurrent funding for most of those facilities. The teacher-student ratio in a neighbourhood centre-type child care facility is higher than the ratio in a larger pre-school. The Office of Child Care and the Government have not taken that into account in the recurrent grants that are made available for staffing and for the other costs of running these centres. The funds available under the Child Care Act are indexed- admittedly only up to awards payments made prior to 1978 but a form of indexation is built in- whereas, unfortunately, with centre-based funding there is no indexation. Because of this change in the Government's policy, there will be a continual funding problem associated with these facilities. I suggest that this should be looked at when the question of the funding of those types of centres is considered next year. 
All in all, I support the activities of the Office of Child Care. It is probably one of the more progressive government organisations that I have seen when looking at the Estimates for this year. In closing, I would just like to say that as a small contribution to the International Year of the 
Child I hope that the Government will endeavour next year to make a decision for the children of New South Wales and provide some extra capital assistance in order to ensure that those children have equality of opportunity with the children of Victoria and Queensland, the adjacent States. 
This evening, I wish to raise the question of some Commonwealth public servants and superannuation rights. Ten years ago in his book  Equality and Authority  Professor Sol Encel was able to say: 
Two-thirds of the workforce in the ACT are employed by the Government, giving them a remarkable degree of security and affluence. 
Whilst it can be argued that the policies of this Government have gone a long way towards undermining the security and affluence of workers generally, tonight I point out the degree to which this Government has undermined the security and affluence of its own employees. I am not suggesting that Commonwealth employees should be more secure or affluent than other workers, just that they should not be less so. I will not belabour the point which was so well made recently in this House by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  who pointed out that this Government values the life or limb of its employees at somewhat less than the value of that of private enterprise or State government employees. The Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1979 set that out clearly enough, and honourable members will recall the matters that were raised when the Bill was being debated in this House. I should like to emphasise that it is Fourth Division public servants who are exposed to the work conditions most likely to lead to injuries on the job. The compensation Bill will affect more Fourth Division officers than any others. 
I will not spend the time of the House on the threat to the security of employment entailed in the management-instigated retirement proposals of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill, which once again threatens the affluence and security of tenure of Commonwealth public servants. Instead, I will elaborate on a point I raised recently in this House- the threat to affluence, if that is the word, of Commonwealth Government superannuitants. This threat to security once again affects Fourth Division employees, but it can affect also other officers who joined the Service late in life or who for one reason or another retire early from the Service. As a former Commonwealth public servant, I can speak with some force on this matter. It can affect also the surviving spouse of a superannuitant whose benefit falls to five eighths of entitlement upon the death of a spouse. I am talking about those whose entitlement to superannuation is so small that they are eligible for pension fringe benefits. Recently, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  conservatively set the value of fringe benefits at about $10 a week. He could have doubled that amount and still been conservative. Cost of living adjustment to superannuation payments was a long overdue and laudable step, but its aim was to improve the position of superannuitants, not to worsen it. Instead, we find the iniquitous situation where , a rise of less than $ 1 a week in cost of living adjustments can carry a person over the fringe benefit threshhold, resulting in that person being $10 a week to $20 a week worse off. 
The point I make is that a person has not opportunity under Commonwealth superannuation arrangements to refuse all or part of the adjustments to his pension and retain his fringe benefits. That is not the case with New South Wales Government superannuitants and, as I understand it, the superannuitants of some Commonwealth authorities and other State government authorities. They can refuse all or part of any cost of living adjustments and thus ensure that they retain the fringe benefits they have been receiving. I have in my electorate many State and Commonwealth public servants, some of whom are retired. I ask the Government: What type of security can a retired public servant feel and what sort of justice is operating when, because he was a Commonwealth public servant rather than a State or authority servant, he is falling further behind in his standard of living, which even under the new rates that recently came into force can hardly be called affluent? His neighbour, who was an employee of the New South Wales Public Service or of an authority in New South Wales or of some of the other State authorities or public services, can maintain his standard of living. 
It is time to make Commonwealth Government superannuation schemes more equitable and more compatible with the superannuation schemes operating in some of the States so that our employees, who are employees of the Government and this Parliament, receive their just entitlements and do not find when cost of living adjustments are made, that they fall further and further behind. They do not have a choice not to contribute to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme if they are permanent officers. They pay into a scheme all their lives and they pay taxes all their lives, but upon retirement they are doubly hit. I think that is unfair. I hope that this House will think it is unfair. I hope that the Government will take this matter under notice so that our employees can be given the same superannuation rights as those given to people employed by the States, and in fact to people employed by private enterprise, who are able to take lump sums instead of weekly payments. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Americanbased coal mining giant, Utah Development Co., has delayed the completion date of its Norwich Park coal mine development in order to benefit from the July 1980 reduction in the coal export levy? Norwich Park was forecast to produce approximately 4.5 million tonnes of coal a year and, if it waited until July 1980 before announcing completion of construction at Norwich Park, Utah would avoid paying the current $3.50 a tonne coal export levy, consequently saving approximately $12m a year. Will this form of tax evasion affect the estimated receipts from the coal export levy for the current year? Will the Treasurer investigate this tax avoidance scheme? 
I ask the Minister for Home Affairs: Is it a fact that recently applications closed for the construction of a hotel complex in Canberra with the option for the inclusion of a casino facility? Is it further a fact that at least one of the companies which lodged an application is a foreign-owned company? Will the Minister give the House an assurance that, if a casino licence is granted in Canberra, it will be granted to a 100 per cent Australian-owned company and not to a foreign company? 
