There are currently in operation twenty vessels which undertake patrol operations. These vessels are distributed around Australia; some of them are based in Sydney, some are based in Darwin, and some are based at HMAS Tarangau, Manus Island. I can assure my honourable friend that the undertaking of surveillance patrols, the maintenance of sovereignty visits and all the attendant problems that are reasonably related to patrol activities are very much under review, and 1 can also assure him that I and the Government are endeavouring to see that there is a consciousness in the Australian people as to how effectively and how vigorously these patrol activities are carried out. 
I will deal first with the honourable member's last question. I understand that no damage was done to the ferry. I am not aware of any time fixed to carry out the repairs to HMAS 'Parramatta'. I have seen  a  figure of some thousands of dollars relating to the repair of HMAS Parramatta* but that figure would be  a  highly speculative one at this stage. I would like to observe to the honourable gentleman and to the House that I think it is a pity that some people are endeavouring to apportion or to lay liability upon one or other of the vessels. Both vessels are now the subject of boards of inquiry and for my part I would hesitate very much indeed to say where liability should rest. I will make inquiries to see whether I can get a definite figure for the honourable gentleman as to the cost of the repairs and the time involved. I will supply the information to him at the earliest opportunity. 
The short answer to the honourable gentleman is no. I would hope that probably next week my colleague the 
Minister for Defence will make a statement dealing with the Government's future defence programme. Future equipment for the Royal Australian Navy will be disclosed by my honourable friend on that occasion. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1967 in a number of ways. As was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech last October, the limit on the value of a home that may attract a grant will be raised from $15,000 to $17,500. Other amendments will widen the forms of savings that are acceptable for purposes of the scheme, and extend the classes of persons who may become eligible for a grant. 
The major purpose of the scheme is to encourage young people to save steadily for a period of years for the first home they own after marriage. Since the inception of the scheme in 1964, some 164,000 home savings grants totalling about $71m have been paid to assist young couples, and widowed persons with dependent children, to own and establish their homes. The amendments now proposed will permit more young people to qualify for a grant, and allow others to receive larger grants by making some presently excluded savings acceptable for purposes of the scheme. I propose now to draw to the attention of honourable members the signficant proposed changes in the scope and application of the scheme, and to give the reasons for these changes. I may explain that notes explaining the purpose of each clause and sub-clause of the amending bill are being made available. 
The value of a home, including the value of the land, in respect of which a grant may be paid will be raised from $15,000 to $17,500. As we all know, the cost of many homes has been rising. The most significant reason for this has been the widespread upward movement in the value of developed residential land in many cities and towns. Another reason is that the average cottage being erected today for young families is much better equipped, and is therefore a better home than it was a few years ago. The increase in the limit on the value of a home by $2,500 approximates the rise that has occurred in the cost of the average home acquired in Australia since the limit was last raised. The cost of some homes has, of course, risen by more than this amount, but the cost of many others has risen by much less. 
Another amendment will extend the forms of saving acceptable for purposes of the scheme to include moneys held in savings bank accounts and on fixed deposit with trading banks that have not been designated as home savings accounts. The great majority of young people who apply for a grant have held their savings in a designated bank account or in one of the other acceptable forms for the required period of 3 years. But there are some who, even though they have been deliberately saving to obtain their own homes and have been depositing their savings in a bank account, have either not requested the bank to designate their accounts as home savings accounts, or failed to have had this done for the minimum period of 3 years before taking steps to acquire their homes. Under the existing provisions these young people, who have been saving for homeownership for the minimum 3-year period and have deposited their savings with a lending institution that makes sizeable and long-term loans for housing, are ineligible to receive a grant. Amongst their number are many newcomers to Australia who, possibly because of language difficulties, have been unaware of the acceptable forms of saving until it was too late for them to become eligible for a grant. 
Our decision to abolish the statutory requirement that acceptable savings with banks must be in accounts that have been designated as home savings accounts does not mean that we no longer wish young people to put their savings into a home savings account. In our future publicity about the scheme we will continue to urge young people to open a home savings account, because a passbook so designated is a continuing reminder to them of the desirability of saving to own a home. On average, applicants who designated their accounts when they commenced to save have saved more than those who failed to designate, or delayed designating, their accounts. 
A further amendment will extend eligibility for a grant to divorced persons aged less than 36 years with one or more dependent children. The eligibility and other provisions relating to these persons will bc broadly similar to those applying to young widowed persons with dependent children who were admitted to the scheme in November 1966, There will also be a transition period, in this case up to 31st December 1970, during which the acceptable savings of eligible divorced persons may be held in a wide variety of forms. 
One difference concerns the treatment of savings held at times prior to the dissolution of the marriage. In the case of a widowed person, savings held at times before the death of the spouse are acceptable where those savings were held in the name of the widowed person or the deceased spouse, or in their joint names. However, both parties to a divorce may later become applicants for grants either in respect of a home acquired on remarriage, or of a home for the accommodation of the divorced person and the dependent children. In the case of divorced persons, the treatment of savings held before the dissolution of the marriage will be the same as that which applies in the cases of married applicants, that is to say, savings that were held in the name of the divorced husband will be regarded as his savings, those held in the name of the divorced wife will be regarded as her savings and those held in their joint names will be regarded as having been held in equal shares by the then husband and wife. 
Under the existing provisions, where savings were held jointly with a person other than the present spouse, no part of these joint savings is acceptable. It is proposed that this provision be amended to permit the acceptance of one-half of savings that were held by a person jointly with a former spouse. This amendment will have effect whether the person is applying for a grant as a divorced person caring for dependent children, or as a remarried person with or without dependent children. 
All the amendments referred to so far will take force on or after 27 October 1969, the first day of business after the recent general election. With respect to the prescribed date, it will be the date on which the applicant entered into a contract to buy or build a home or, as an owner-builder, commenced its construction. It marks the close of a person's savings period for purposes of the scheme. 
Another amendment will permit the Secretary, in exceptional circumstances, to determine that an applicant's prescribed date was a date other than on which construction of the dwelling was commenced. In some cases, an applicant obtains approval from the local government authority to build a small section of the dwelling, such as a single room or the garage, for use as a temporary home until he is in a position, some time later, to proceed with construction of the remainder of the dwelling. At present the applicant's savings period ends on the date on which construction of the room or garage commenced. The proposed amendment will permit the Secretary to determine that the date on which meaningful construction of the dwelling commenced be regarded as the applicant's prescribed date in these cases. 
The Australian Federation of Credit Union Leagues has recently renewed its request that savings with credit unions be acceptable for purposes of the home savings grant scheme. Lending by credit unions is still predominantly by way of loans of less than $1,000 for such purposes as the purchase of furniture, household equipment and motor vehicles and meeting the cost of medical and educational expenses and home repairs. However, a few credit unions are making loans of $4,000 or more over periods of up to 10 years or even longer to their members to assist them to acquire a home of their own. 
Our offer of a home savings grant has always been regarded as being made for two main purposes. These are to encourage young people to save to acuire their own homes after marriage and to hold their savings with the major institutions that make relatively high-ratio and long-term loans for the acquisition of a home, and thus increase the volume of savings available for lending for home-ownership. And we see no reason to alter these purposes. Acceptable savings for purposes of the scheme should be savings deposited with institutions that make large and long-term loans at a reasonable rate of interest in connection with the acquisition of a home. Consistent with this, we have so far made no provision - other than in respect of the initial transitional period that ended on 31st December 1964 - to accept savings with a credit union, because no credit union was close to being able to do this. 
Included in the Bill now before the House are a number of amendments that will permit savings with a credit union to become acceptable, provided the union can satisfy a number of conditions. These conditions are set out in clause 5 of the Bill. Broadly, they are that a credit union regularly makes a significant number of loans for the construction or purchase of homes, and that these loans are comparable in size, interest terms and repayment periods with loans made for these purposes by banks and building societies. The Bill will permit a credit union to be approved for purposes of the home savings grant scheme. The conditions of approval include that at least 20% of its total lending in its most recent financial year was lent to assist its members to own their own homes, that a minimum of $50,000 was lent for these purposes and that these loans were made at an effective interest rate of not more than  H%  per annum on a reducing balance basis. As applicants for the grant are required to hold their savings with institutions that make relatively large and long-term loans for the acquisition of a home, it is reasonable that a credit union, wishing to have savings with it accepted, should have made in its most recent financial year a significant number of such loans. One condition of approval of a credit union will therefore be that at least 15% of its total lending in its most recent financial year, that is to say, about three-quarters of the 20% of its lending that must be in loans for the construction or purchase of a home, shall be loans of not less than $7,000 and be repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. Needless to say, a credit union seeking approval will be asked to give an undertaking that it will continue to meet these conditions during each subsequent financial year. Failure to meet these continuing conditions will mike a credit union liable to have its approval withdrawn. The Bill permits approval to be withdrawn, but only after 6 months notice. 
The Bill also provides that savings held by an eligible applicant for a home savings grant with an approved credit union shall be acceptable for purposes of the scheme where his prescribed date was not earlier than the first day of the financial year during which the credit union met the conditions necessary for approval. To assist honourable members let me give an example. Suppose a credit union meets the necessary conditions during the financial year which ends on 30th June 1970 and that the Secretary of the Department of Housing is satisfied shortly after the end of the year that it has met those conditions in its 1969-70 financial year: savings held with this credit union by an eligible applicant for a grant where the applicant's prescribed date was as far back as 1st July 1969, that is to say, the beginning of the financial year in which the credit union met the conditions for approval, would be acceptable not only at his prescribed date but also at his earlier savings dates. These are the conditions on which the Government is willing to accept savings with credit unions for purposes of the home savings grant scheme. It is appreciated that very few, if any, credit unions are as yet in a position to meet these conditions. But once these amendments are approved by Parliament, the door will be open for savings with a credit union to become acceptable if it wishes to make a reasonable effort in lending to its members for the acquisition of homes. 
The amendments proposed in this Bill will, I am sure, be welcomed by the many thousands of young people who  are  acquiring their first matrimonial homes or who are saving for that purpose. The amendments are in keeping with the practical and positive programme that has been outlined by the Government. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
My friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has taken some 36 minutes to read a speech, giving his Party's view on defence. I hope I could be forgiven if I began by saying I would have drawn the conclusion from my friend's introduction that he had taken over the patronage of the Australian vivisectionist organisation. He wanted to disembowel or to strip something to its bare bones. Apart from one or two cutting remarks like that, the honourable gentleman left me with the distinct impression that he wanted to intrude a mild note of partisanship into his assessment of the defence statement of my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
It is rather interesting to reflect on the honourable gentleman's speech, and I hope that the House will take some notice of it. He worked himself into what I, inclining my fragile being instinctively in the direction of charity, would describe as a rather interesting remark when he said that all of the analysis relating to the shopping list has not been satisfactorily done. You can call it a grocer's list, if you like. It does not worry me very much whether you call it a shopping list or a grocer's list or any other list. My honourable friend roused himself into what I will call in my infinite charity quite a tizzy about all this. 
Here it is, this new, young and brilliant member from Sturt. I do not want to upset my honourable friend, but I hope that he would forgive me if I offered him a little bit of advice. The honourable gentleman would display himself to far greater advantage if he were to engage his brain before he opened his mouth. I come back to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said in dealing with his assessment of the shopping list. The honourable gentleman left us on the note - I am not to be contradicted, I hope - that he did not disagree with one of the items in the shopping list. I want to wring, if I may, however reluctantly out of my honourable friend agreement that that is the case. He did not criticise the Government's proposal to proceed to the detailed design for the DDL destroyer. No, not at all. He said this is a great idea. There was nothing from the honourable gentleman apart from introducing one or two technical commentaries about the use of helicopters. He did not complain about that. Nothing at all from the honourable gentleman about the pur chase by the Royal Australian Navy of the new Skyhawk aircraft or any of the other items amounting to approximately $166m. Not one word of lament from my honourable friend on that count. I hope my honourable friend will get an opportunity in a moment or two of high confidence which we enjoy to explain to me why it is, after having roundly criticised the Government and the Minister for Defence for the shopping list and for not having taken part, as he put it - and this is a shorthand account of what the honourable member said - in sufficient analysis, that he turns round and agrees with it. I thought that this was a rather extraordinary proposition. Still, my honourable friend is entitled to work himself into these positions as best as he can and he can try to extricate himself from them as best he can. 
If I were to point it up with some thousands of pounds of horsepower it could not possibly penetrate your granite-like mind. 
I come back to what I thought he described, without showing the slightest indication of felicity for language, as a turgid preamble. 
T-u-r-g-i-d. I am delighted that the honourable member can understand. What my honourable friend is dealing with here is the strategic assessment given by the Minister for Defence. He did not know quite which way to turn. It was as though he was on the parade ground; he did not know whether to turn to the left, to the right or to march on the spot. I want to point out to my honourable friend the dilemma in which he has put himself and, perforce, his party. 
Ah, at least I am articulate and that is the violent distinction between the two of us. Here it is, the strategic assessment described, as I say, by my honourable friend in this most non-felicitous way as a turgid preamble. It shocked me to the very core. He said he agreed with it. Agreed with it? 
The Minister for Defence described - I would hope in exemplary language of moderation, restraint and clear perception - the position of this country. He referred to the rise of Communist China as a nuclear power and to the growth and development of various countries of the region in which we live. My honourable friend confirmed in the most explicit language that this country stood by its treaty obligations. I think that is a far cry, if I may say - I hope honourable members will forgive my partisanship on this point - from the utter repudiation by the Australian Labor Party of its treaty obligations. Let me test it: I will take but one example. All of the joint AustralianAmerican bases constructed in Australia have been constructed pursuant to the ANZUS agreement. If my honourable friend would like to trouble himself to read Article II of the ANZUS agreement he will notice expressed in simple uncluttered language that all the parties to the agreement undertake jointly and collectively to improve their respective defence postures. I hope that is not too criptic a paraphrase of the Article, but that is the effect of it. Constructed pursuant to that Article is the Pine Gap base; constructed pursuant to that Article is the Woomera base. I have never heard one word of praise of those achievements from members of the Australian Labor Party. I have listened to nothing but a cacophony of criticism from members of that Party. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  works himself into a great stir over Pine Gap. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition rouses himself from his usual tranquil likeable being when this base is mentioned. Where does the Labor Party stand on this issue? Is this to suggest in all honesty that there is a co-incidence of view between the Government and the Australian Labor Party as far as these bases are concerned? I invite my honourable friend or any spokesmen who may speak on behalf of his Party to say whether they are for the maintenance of these bases in Australia? To repudiate them is to repudiate the ASZUS agreement. It is to no avail the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  saying on any occasion that the Labor Party supports the ANZUS agreement. There is only one way in which to test support and that is by example and by precept. Everything that the Australian Labor Party has done as far as these bases have been concerned has been to criticise them, to denigrate the means by which they have been established and to call them into question. I would have hoped that this was one of the distinguishing differences between the policy of those who sit on the other side of the House - and this is one of the reasons why they sit on that side of the House - and those of us who sit on this side of the House. It is very simple. 
Look, my dear friend, I have been here 15 years listening to silly threats such as you make. I must remind the honourable member, his leader and the whole of the front bench - what a glittering array they are - that the election is over and that the Labor Party lost the election. There it is; as I thought - complete silence. The Labor Party puts itself in one fortunate position from the view point of any defence statement and  from  the viewpoint of any foreign affairs statement. It has but one assumption and this assumption underlines the whole of its foreign and defence policies. The assumption can be summed up in the simple words: We will let the rest of the world go by. 
Last year the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition addressed that intellectually disturbed body, the Victorian Fabian Society and I would like to quote what he had to say in summing up the Australian strategic situation. 1 refer to page 13 of the report - I do not want to be put on the rack because I have not given the source of my authority. My honourable friend said: 
The basic contention of the Labor Party- 
Look, I go to sleep at night time thinking about this and after about 10 minutes I wake up - 
The basic contention of the Labor Party is that Australia's- 
Look, the honourable member would represent the No. 1 nightmare I have met in many a long day. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said: 
The basic contention of the Labor Party is that Australia's strategic frontiers are its natural boundaries. 
I will say it again. 
I will do that because I think it deserves it. If I can think of a form of colour picture with a red setting it would be a help as far as the honourable member is concerned. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said: 
The basic contention of the Labor Party is that Australia's strategic frontiers are its natural boundaries. 
I have never listened to, if I may say so with great respect to my infinite sense of charity to my honourable friend, or read such nonsense in all my life because his Party at one time or other has supported Australian participation in South East Asia. I know that the honourable member will say that the Federal Conference of his Party does not say that. I just want to remind my honourable friend, if he turns his mind back to early August 1968, or thereabouts- 
I am indebted to my historically-minded friend. In 1969 the Leader of the Opposition declared that as far as he was concerned there was nothing wrong with leaving a couple of squadrons of RAAF Mirages in the area. Then came the conference. 
The honourable member should try to contain himself. I know that it is an effort for him. At the conference it was said that it was no longer feasible - I think that is the precious language used by that holy body, the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party - to leave any troops, any squadrons or any defence force in South East Asia. What did my friend the Leader of the Opposition do? He gathered up his skirts and he said in this House: 'The squadrons are quite different'. I remember his saying that; it disturbed me when I heard it. When my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, as is his wont, went down to try to sort out what I describe as this intellectually disturbed body, the Victorian Fabian Society, what policy did he enunciate? He said that the Federal Conference's direction on the matter bound him and every member of the Australian Labor Party. Step by step, the Leader of the Opposition went down the creaking staircase of his politics. From the position where at one time he was prepared to leave some Australian military presence in South East Asia, he succumbed - I will not say to the blandishments - to the latent threats of the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. 
I come to the last two aspects to which I can give a glancing blow. The honourable gentleman roused himself on the matter of Vietnam. Vietnam has been a matter of great debate in this country and throughout the world. I hope that my honourable friend will not object too much if I remind him of the fact that South Vietnam is a country in international law and with international personality. Is that proposition seriously challenged? I hope not, because more than sixty countries have recognised South Vietnam. The General Assembly of the United Nations in 1957 voted to admit South Vietnam, only to be confronted with the veto of the Soviet Union in the Security Council. South Vietnam is one of a number of specialised countries of the United Nations. Even to the brilliant new member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who will be here, I hope, for a short time, it is a very elementary principle of international law that any country is entitled to act in its own self-defence and to invite aid. This principle is to be found enshrined in article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. It spells out an old principle of international law. It is a long time since I have heard any word of complaint from any member of the ALP about the attacks on South Vietnam by those who come from North Vietnam. May I remind the House and all thinking people of Australia that nearly 1 million people fled from North Vietnam into South Vietnam. They voted with their feet. The people of South Vietnam are quite entitled to ask for assistance. It is all very fine for my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to make what I can describe only as a most contemptible assessment of the situation and to say that it was never any of our business. May I remind the honourable member- 
I am indebted to my friend the Attorney-General. I ask honourable members to listen to what the Leader of the Labor Party had to say in 1967. He is reported in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail'  of 9th June 1967 - honourable members may test the veracity of that newspaper if they wish - as having said: 
In a telecast on February 23, 1966, and taped for the Federal Executive in July,  Mr Calwell  said that Labor did not believe in a unilateral withdrawal of troops, either by the Americans, Australians, North Vietnamese, or anybody else. 
I would say the same',  Mr Whitlam  said. 
How times change. How the course of ideas changes. How it is that the corrosive influences of high politics upon the minds of people can affect changes of policy. Only a few short years ago there was no complaint from the Leader of the Opposition about our presence in South Vietnam. The Government's policy is summed up by my honourable friend the Minister for Defence and by the Prime Minister - this has consistently been the case - as being to strive for, to seek and to find those means in the world that will enable countries to have their independence, to maintain their national integrity, and to ensure that the inviolability of human rights is held in honour. That is the charter of the Gorton Government; that is the charter that put it into government, and that is the charter that will keep it in government. 
 My friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  will appreciate that in this chamber I represent the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman). 
That is a matter of judgment. I have my view of the honourable member, too. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition this evening has raised a matter which, I tell him in a spirit of complete frankness, has impressed me. I am impressed by the argument that he put with great simplicity. I do not say that offensively. He put his argument with great conviction. I would like my honourable friend to know that I cannot answer off the cuff. But I am impressed with his view that any member of the Royal Australian Air Force - and I hope that I will not be accused of speaking with the prejudice of old - who flies some 30-odd missions into a 'war' zone should be entitled to a Return from Active Service Badge. I put 'war' in quotation marks. 
I will undertake to speak with my colleague, the Minister for Air, at the first opportunity. I am not trying to tranquilise the honourable member in any way. I will speak with the Minister who is in the Senate. I understand that at one time I was supposed to say 'in another place'. But now I can say 'in the Senate'. The Minister is a former member of the RAAF. I hope that I can speak with him early next week. If I cannot speak with him before next weekend, I will undertake to convey to my honourable friend what the Minister thinks. However, in summary, I am impressed with what my friend has had to say. 
Repetition on some occasions adds to the charm of the event. I would like the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to know that I will undertake to see the Minister for Air about this matter. If there is some anomaly, providing it can be surmounted with goodwill, I assure him that for my part I will see that it is surmounted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the group pay system for sailors, some categories are related to the award wage . payable to comparable civilian employment governed by a Federal or State award. More generally, as announced by the Minister for Defence recently, the new machinery established in the Department of Defence to deal with pay and conditions of service for the armed forces will ensure that movements which occur anywhere in ' the civilian area of employment will be considered for their relevance in the Service situation. There has been a progressive extension of relating rates of pay for those in the Services to the rates of those in the community at large engaged in comparable activity. 
f think this is a splendid illustration of erring in the reading of a statute. When I first read the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act and references made in section  39  (2.) (b) of that Act to the Board's making a decision regarding the acceptance of an application to meet the needs of the Service, T took the view - and 1 am sure that my honourable friend would agree with me that it was a reasonable one to take - that the 'Board' in that sense was the Naval Board, but the 'Board' in that sense T found on further examination was the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board. This is a Board that occupies by force of statute of this Parliament a statutory independence. The Board exercises a role which is akin to that of a board of trustees. I was invited by dint of circumstances to place before that Board all the relevant facts concerning Captain Stevenson, lt is not a case  of my  changing my mind or of the Naval Board changing its mind although I pause to make the observation that if a person who has placed before him further relevant and persuasive argument refused to change his mind I would be left to conclude that that individual is not affected by elements of obstinacy but is consumed by stupidity. I want to point out to my honourable friend and to the House that the ultimate decision rests wilh the Defence Forces Retirement 
Benefits Board. It is the Board's decision. It makes a decision whether to accept the retirement. It would have been within the Board's province and thoroughly competent for it to have turned around and said: 'No, we do not accept it.' Then it would have been open to the Government to consider the matter on that basis. But that Board accepted it and there the matter rests. What the honourable gentleman has before him and what I have before me is the decision of a board which has statutory independence - an independence that has been enjoyed by that board for many, many years. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistics are kept on the number of sailors marked 'RUN' after 7 days absence, nor of the numbers of charges of desertion which result in acquittal or in reduction of the charge to improper absence. 
The numbers of sailors who were convicted of desertion during the 5 year period 1st January 1965 to 31st December 1969 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No cases of misrepresentation by insurance agents have been reported. However, if more information can be provided, I will have the matter investigated further. 
I wish to make a few observations. I think they will be very much to the point. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has referred to this vote as being a trial to find out who is responsible for certain things. The simple truth of the matter is that the Opposition elected to make it a trial and all of the Opposition's argument as far as the motion of dissent from your ruling is concerned turns on the question of relevance. I will deal with the question of relevance. The basic issues on which the Opposition moved its censure motion were the events of last night. This is not denied. It is not denied by any honourable member opposite. Certainly this was the gravamen of the argument advanced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in moving his censure motion and the honourable gentleman does not deny it. If the events of last night were relevant in determining the form of the censure motion then an amendment to the censure motion is certainly relevant. I say to the honourable member for Dawson that it is the Opposition which has elected to make this a trial and the Opposition is now hoist by its own petard. The Government says that if you are to look back and dwell on the events of last night and to say that the Leader of the House was responsible for those events and should be censured, that is the wrong assessment of those events and that the right and proper assessment to be made is that the Leader of the Opposition is the one who should be censured, for he was the one who gave rise to the most undignified and unruly display this House has ever known. 
 The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has given a rather picturesque, albeit a lachrymose account of his trials as a private member of this Parliament. I sympathise with my honourable friend. I just want, if I may, on the basis of one who at least has spent IS years in this place to offer one word of advice. But before I do so, may I tell him about the first word of advice I received when I came to this Parliament from  a  former Leader of the Australian Country Party, a former  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country and indeed, a Prime Minister. I hope it is of tolerable relevance. It was  Sir Arthur  Fadden. He said to me: 'Most of the advice you will get in this place will be dubious. The only advice 1 ask you to take from me is this: All the good bowlers are not in the one team'. I want my honourable friend from Riverina to bear that in mind. The advice I want to offer to him this evening is this: If there is one superb way of destroying a convention that is useful, or an institution that is worth while, or a habit that is of value, then you will seek to debase it. 
The honourable member should not over exert himself.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you wait about 5 seconds you will hear the honourable members thinking. I want to say to the honourable member for Riverina and all honourable members opposite that if there is one superb way of debasing anything - habit, institution or convention - it is to abuse it. If there has been one thing which has been patently clear during the course of this Parliament it is the fact that the Australian Labor Party has sought to debase the right to raise matters of public importance. 
My dear friend should go back to his slumber. The raising of a matter of public importance means, as I apprehend it, that some matter is urgent, but to resort on every possible occasion to submitting urgency matters when a pointed question, tolerably well phrased, would serve the case seems to be an abuse of the convention, habit and custom of raising matters of public importance. The whole business of the country could be reduced to a state of nothingness if on every imaginable occasion Parliamentary Government business was to be introduced a matter was submitted for discussion as a matter of public importance in its place. If we are to accept the logic which has been pressed upon us with such indelicate care by the Opposition - 'do not disrupt and do not gag urgency debates' - then we would have the spectacle of debates on matters of public importance representing the businesss of the National Parliament from one session's beginning to that session's end. That is the logic of the Labour Party. I only hope that those honourable gentlemen opposite who understand that proposition will come to grips with it, and that most certainly would exclude the rather vocal and articulate member for Sturt  (Mr Foster). 
The honourable member has certainly not opened his brain. I want to come to the basic charge which has been made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - the censure motion. There have not been many censure motions, my friend would agree, in my time in this Parliament during the last 15 years. A censure motion against a Government is certainly not to be taken lightly, but a censure motion directed against an individual and with stronger force against a Minister is to be taken with absolute seriousness. What is the charge made by the Leader of the Opposition? The honourable member for Sturt who is seeking to interject makes me think that some yodeller has got into this place under the guise of being a member of Parliament. 
I want to come to the charge. I turn to my honourable and learned friend, the Leader of the Opposition, and say that  I treat it as a charge - a charge to be proven beyond all reasonable doubt. Admittedly I know that my honourable friend has had a rather meagre practice in those tribunals where charges have to be proved beyond all reasonable doubt. Nevertheless, despite what discomfiture may spread over my honourable and learned friend's face I will proceed to an examination of the charge that he has presented. 
I would agree with the honourable member in complete and utter modesty. The charge that the honourable member made against the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  is that he has mishandled the business of the House. 
I say to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that it is not customary for jurymen to start interrupting. The only evidence that the Leader of the 
Opposition offered to this House this afternoon in its corporate sense was that there had been a breach of agreements. That I suppose was a sub-charge. No evidence was offered in support of it though. He merely said that the Leader of the House and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  had entered into an arrangement regarding amendments. He said that the amendments were in the drawer. Thinking for myself on that occasion  -  I know that thinking would certainly be a phenomenon for the honourable member for Sturt  -  I thought it a rather quaint place to put amendments. I can look back on 5 or 6 rather substantial pieces of legislation to which I moved amendments when a private member. The legislation ranged over the Trade Practices Act, the Matrimonial Causes Act, the Extradition Act and, speaking for the benefit of 1 or 2 conspicuous South Australian members, the Bankruptcy Act. On each and every occasion it has been my practice to circulate amendments so that every person can have an opportunity of looking at the amendments and considering them for what they are worth. 
But in this instance what did the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  do? He put his amendments in the drawer. He gave them into the custody of the  Clerk.  The honourable member for Dawson is so hard up in his command of invective or of abuse that he had to resort to calling the Leader of the House a dingo - a most unfelicitous description, I would have thought. The honourable gentleman may be a little disturbed by this, but these are the facts. I am dealing with the charge that the Opposition prosecutor presented against the Leader of the House this afternoon. That is the evidence and the evidence alone that the honourable gentleman had to offer. Beyond that he had nothing at all. 
So in terms of proving his charge beyond all reasonable doubt it would seem to be a rather quaint form of standards to which the Leader of the Opposition conforms if he believes that this is proof, and proof beyond all reasonable doubt. The simple truth is that Opposition members, having been disturbed, as they may well have been disturbed by the events of last night, sought to create a diversion - this is the truth in my view - to try to drag public opinion away from one of the most dis graceful, shabby and undignified performances that this Parliament has seen during the whole of its history. I am talking about Parliament in terms of the Australian Federation. I come now to the charge which the Government makes against the Leader of the Opposition. The amendment moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Leader of the Opposition should be censured for his failure to respond to  Mr Speaker's  request that he use his influence with the honourable member for Wills to obey the decision of the House directed to him by  Mr Speaker  and thereby became a party to an attack on the institution of Parliament by members of the Opposition whose disruptive and unruly behaviour was designed to make impossible the conduct of the business of the House'. 
Before 1 look at that charge, may I for the purpose of my argument assume that the Opposition's charge was well founded? Let me take that as an assumption. 1 hope this will excite the attention of the Leader of the Opposition who is surrounded by some new-found friends. For the purposes of my argument I want honourable members to assume that the Opposition charge was well founded. What would it prove? Could it possibly excuse the behaviour of the honourable gentleman last night? I would have thought that one who had any regard at all for the customs of Parliament, for the authority of Parliament, and certainly for the rule of law, would have  said:  We have been outraged. We have been denied the opportunity to speak on this occasion. We have been gagged. But we will use such forums as may be available to us throughout the country to ensure that the sovereign wil'l of the Australian people is informed as to the blemishes created by the Government and we will seek redress.' But no, what the Labor Party did last night  -  I hope everybody in this House understands it - was to take the law into its own hands. That is what it did. This is what the Leader of the Opposition did - one of  Her  Majesty's counsel. The rule of law! Has the honourable gentleman ever appeared in a court when, for some reason or other, a judge has said to him: T think your argument,  Mr Whitlam,  is irrelevant'? He may have taken the view that it was highly irrelevant, and if the honourable gentleman sought to press upon the court that it was relevant and he was told to keep quiet and he threw up his arms and excited the litigants to stand up with him he would have been committed for contempt of court. But if, on the other hand, the honourable gentleman were right and an argument that had a high sense of relevance was not heard, it would have been heard on appeal. The honourable gentleman's appeal last night would have been not merely beyond this Parliament; in my submission it would have been plainly to this Parliament - to this House. It most certainly would have been to the sovereign will of the Australian people. But, no, the honourable gentleman rose in his place and he exhorted people to stand as though it were an annual parade of the Australian anarchist society. 1 come now to the charge that the Government makes against the Opposition. I ask honourable gentlemen opposite to look at the elements in the charge. The first element of the charge is that the Leader of the Opposition failed to respond to  Mr Speaker's  request. No person in this House last night who heard the  Speaker- 
Oh! What humbug the honourable member indulges in. The opportunity was afforded last night for the Leader of the Opposition to quieten his Party, to say to the Opposition: 'Steady on'. But he did not do that. Is that an element which is without doubt? The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has just handed me a glass of water, which I do not need. The artesian bore of Australian politics is a great user of water in this place. 
I come to the second element of the charge - the influence that the honourable gentleman has. I suppose this is a rather dubious form of influence. It seems to waver on occasion from one quarter to another. For a leader of the Opposition in any Parliament in the Commonwealth of Nations to behave as he did last night undoubtedly would be conspicuous in that there would simply be no example to rival. The third element is that when directed by  Mr Speaker  to use his influence with the honourable member for Wills he did not encourage him in the least to obey  Mr Speaker's  direction. What, in short, happened was that he whistled up the guard. Distinguish them as we like by any adjective at all, the guard sat on the left and on the right of the honourable member for Wills to obstruct the Serjeant-at-Arms, by custom the officer who intervenes on such occasions. I thought it was a thoroughgoing display of cowardice. If a man in this Parliament took the view that he could defy the authority of the  Speaker  he would not beckon to anybody from the left or from the right; he would say: 'I defy the authority of this Parliament. I defy your authority.' But he sat there with those on the left and on the right - covered by the guard. It was one of the most shameful exhibitions that this Parliament has ever seen. 
Opposition members - Oh! 
Honourable members cannot jeer these things away. They may try to jeer them away but the simple truth is that they cannot do so. The last element of the charge is that the Leader of the Opposition himself was involved. Who, who was in this chamber last night, can forget the honourable gentleman - the whole 6 feet 6 inches of him - standing up? I have just knocked the water over the table; members opposite are lucky I did not knock it over them. Who can forget the Leader of the Opposition standing and exhorting, as though he were leading the 'Hallelujah Chorus' at Easter time. 'Rise up, rise up, rise up' the honourable gentleman said, and one by one they stood up. Then I saw about 3 of my honourable friends opposite who have a great feeling for Parliament sit down. They were disturbed. T thought it a rather extraordinary thing for one who has had the advantage of being tutored in the discipline of law to invite everybody on the Opposition to rise and say: 'Well, name him, name us an; 
If any form of words has ever been put together which is deserving of support, the Government's amendment to the censure motion is deserving of support. The Leader of the Opposition has been responsible for having developed on of the most ugly, one of the most distasteful and one of the most unredeeming displays ever involved in the history of parliamentary government. Our people have travelled a long way and the system of parliamentary government will not survive while people such as the Leader of the Opposition pretend that they have an affection for it. 
The only Soviet vessel that I am aware has been sighted in proximity to the Australian coast line in recent times was the sighting off the West 
Australian coast near Albany. I am unable to answer the other questions asked by the honourable gentleman but I will make such inquiries as may seem fit. May 1 take this opportunity of observing to the honourable gentleman and to the House that Article 2 of the Geneva Convention on the High Seas, a convention to which this country is a signatory, provides for freedom of navigation on the high seas. Therefore, if a vessel is sailing on the high seas there is nothing that this country in any way can do. 
That Article is only cut back by a further Article in the Convention - Article 22 - which provides that a merchant ship may be boarded by a warship if there is reasonable ground to suspect that the merchant ship is engaged in piracy or slave traffic. Beyond that there is no jurisdiction conferred on a warship. Another Article in the Convention provides that a warship has complete immunity from the jurisdiction of any state other than the flag state. 
The position is simply this: If there is a foreign vessel sailing on the high seas and there is no act of war by that foreigin vessel, there is no jurisdiction conferred in international law upon this country to intervene in any way. Finally, may I observe in regard to the technical question that the honourable gentleman asked that I will make such inquiries as may seem fit and I will convey the answers to the honourable gentleman. 
I did not have the pleasure of seeing my colleague, the honourable member for Casey, in his encounter with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The honourable member for Angas will appreciate that range is a relative term and is determined by what is carried. Itis my understanding that the precise range of the F111 is classified. Nevertheless it is a matter of public notoriety that it can and does achieve a very substantial operational range without tanker support. I will ask my colleague, the Minister for Air, whether he will provide the honourable member with a detailed reply. I would content myself with sayingthat to suggest that the F111 needs tanker support is a refined piece of nonsense. 
The Leader of the Opposition will appreciate that the F111 is neither in use by the Navy nor indeed in contemplation by it. 
No. The honourable gentleman puts himself in a very difficult position. I will seek from the Minister for Air what information is available on this matter but as far as the Phantom is concerned I would think that it is a matter of public knowledge that to secure maximum operational performance it needs tanker support. It is my understanding, subject to any further information that can be placed before me - unlike the honourable gentleman I am prepared to change my mind when other facts are placed before me - that the F111 does not need tanker support. 
In reply to a question asked earlier by the honourable member for Chisholm I omitted to mention that the 2 Soviet fishing vessels were also sighted some 25 miles from the Tasmanian coast. I would just like to correct the record. Those ships, of course, were on the high seas and in international waters. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The jet training aircraft used by the RAN at present are: 
Skyhawk TA4-G- 2 aircraft 
Vampire- 4 aircraft 
Sea Venom- 4 aircraft. 
Government approval has been given for the purchase of 10 MACCHI MB326H jet trainers, similar to those used by the RAAF. These aircraft will enter service in the RAN in October 1970, and will replace the Vampire and Sca Venom aircraft. 
Sea Venom aircraft were not designed as jet trainers as they are only equipped with controls for one pilot. However, after becoming familiar with the Vampire, pilots are converted to the Sea Venom and carry out solo training in that aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Essential repairs necessary to enable 'Hobart' to return to operational service were carried out by the United States Navy at Subic Bay in the Philippines. These were estimated to cost $US0.250m. No further details of the actual cost of these repairs have been received. 
On return of the ship to Australia the RAN replaced one of the Tartar control systems which had been damaged in the incident. The replacement was effected in conjunction with a planned up-dating of 'Hobart's' Tartar systems. The cost to the RAN of the replacement equipment was $A0.758m, but a considerable proportion of the replaced equipment is repairable and will be retained in spares holdings. The value of damaged items found to be unserviceable and beyond repair was $A50,314. 
If I could take the questions put by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in reverse order, I will first of all deal with clause 21. Clause 21 does not lay down any a priori directions as to how the Corporation shall work. The clause is cast deliberately in very broad language to provide financial assistance to producers of Australian films. If I may I will correct an impression that has been erroneously but not deliberately created. The Corporation will not be a film producer. It will provide financial assistance but plainly the Corporation could not be expected to go off on some silly frolic of its own. It will direct its efforts and attention only to those enterprises that would seem on the balance of probabilities to have some prospects of success. As I understand the honourable gentleman's question on this point, he may have had in mind the case of some well deserving project that was under way but was lacking in financial backing. I would imagine that the Corporation would assist, if arguments were put to it which showed the merit of the project and that it had every reasonable chance of success. 
If the honourable member looks at the language of clauses 20 and 21 as a whole, he will see that they are deliberately cast in a very broad way. They are not definitive because, as I am sure the honourable member will agree, the functions of the Corporation may take a little time to shake down. That is certainly the way I read clause 21. It does not lay down in advance any particular way in which the Corporation shall function. It leaves it to the essential good sense of the members of the Corporation. In regard to the question of the honourable member concerning clause 20, the short answer would be no, the Corporation could not assume the responsibilities that are now presently entrusted to the Tariff Board. However, I could contemplate a set of circumstances in which the Corporation may make a suggestion to the Tariff Board- 
A general statement, but it would not, as I read the Bill, seek to play a role which would in any sense rival the Tariff Board. The language of clause 20 is broad and it does not restrict the Corporation unnecessarily. It gives it, as it were, a very wide charter indeed. 
I deal now with the amendment which has been moved by the honourable gentleman.I do not think he had his heart in it. I would start by saying that the comparison that he invited us to draw with the gentlemen in the United States of America is not completely a realistic one. As I recall the language used by the honourable member for Oxley, he spoke of the American Arts Council. We have here the Australian Arts Council, and it may be fair to compare one with the other. We may well find people on the Australian Arts Council who have pecuniary interests in industries associated either closely or peripherally with the arts in Australia in one form or another. The Films Committee of the Australian Arts Council in Australia recommended the insertion of the provision which is now found is clause 6. But it is not only because the Films Committee of the Australian Arts Council made that recommendation that it has been included in clause 6. I invite the honourable member to look at the principle which rests- 
What happened to it? 
No, I did not say that at all. I would ask the honourable member not to be impatient. I am saying it is not merely because the Films Committee of the Australian Arts Council made a recommendation to this effect that the Government has accepted it. What resides in clause 6 is good sense because it does not allow for a conflict of interest of a person sitting on the body and advising it. For that reason the amendment is not accepted. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  is completely conscious of the weight of his own argument, but he has persuaded me to accept his argument as being one which is untrammelled in its support of the existing provision. The honourable gentleman referred to the fact that what is needed is . business acumen. That is the term he used. I point out to my honourable friend that the whole character of the Corporation is directed towards putting the emphasis upon business acumen, which I repeat is the very argument that the honourable gentleman used. If, on the other hand, my friend had said that the emphasis is upon the Corporation having an artistic, cultural or theatrical acumen, then he would have had a lot of weight on his side. But he has elected to put the enphasis upon business acumen. My friend is precisely right. This is exactly what the Corporation is designed to do. 
Before the suspension for dinner I tried to explain that the Corporation does not whistle off on a frolic of its own, taking the view that some particular form of film activity should be encouraged or discouraged. It looks to see where it can, for the most part, secure a maximum amount of value - not for my friend's money, not for my money and not for the Government's money, but for the taxpayers' money. I am sure that my honourable friend will agree that that is the essence of good sense. 
The honourable member for Oxley, who led for the Opposition on this matter, is predictably unpredictable. 1 will illustrate that simple proposition. I know that my honourable friend has the greatest of difficulty in following the most elementary of proposals, but I will try to reduce it to an even subsumed level of elementariness. 
I will explain that to the honourable member later. Let us imagine that the Government said: 'Now, John 
James is going to be appointed as a member of the Film Corporation', if I may so cryptically describe it, and the honourable member for Oxley came in and said, with his cheerful mien: 'Oh, but John James has got lengthy and extensive business interests with the film industry'. We could imagine the sort of argument that some of my honourable friends opposite would make of that proposition. They would say: 'He is going to use his efforts to persuade the Corporation to direct business activity his way'. It is an old fashioned principle, and I think a pretty good one, that if you have a particular interest in something you do not sit, in any sense, by way of adjudication. That applies to the courts. I know that some people tend to deride those who practise in the courts - although, looking opposite, I see honourable members who I suspect have some sense of gratitude towards those who do practise in the courts. But it is a great principle of the law that no person shall sit in adjudication if he has an interest in the matter in question. Some good law on the point was laid down by the House of Lords in the Grand Junction Canal case. You can take that interest and that principle long enthroned in the law and you can apply it to ordinary civil secular life. That is exactly what the Government has done. That is a good, sound principle; it is good sense. I am rather surprised - indeed, I am rather perturbed - that the Opposition and, in particular, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has sought to try to persuade us to another course. 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Learmonth airfield is being developed as an unmanned base and no permanent sleeping quarters will be provided. 
The Airfield Construction Squadron which will undertake the development will be accommodated in existing buildings renovated to a standard for short term occupation. On this basis the buildings will not be sound proofed; but during the construction period there will be no significant movement of aircraft on the base. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Set out below are the most common allowances payable to members of the RAN, the circumstances under which they are payable and the amounts payable in the years 1945, 1951, 1961 and 1970. 
There are other allowances which are payable from time to time. The allowances are related to the nature of the member's duty and or the additional responsibility or skill involved in the performance of a particular task and are varied from time to time. 
AREA ALLOWANCE 
Circumstances of Payment 
Allowances are paid to compensate climatic disadvantages, cost of living and isolation of the areas. 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No steps have been taken to train New Guineans to operate and service Air Force aircraft. 
The Department of Civil Aviation administers the Australian Flying Scholarship scheme, which is designed to produce career pilots for civil aviation in Australia and Papua-New Guinea, for the training of suitably qualified young people to at least Commercial Pilot Licence standard. To be eligible for selection, applicants must meet qualifications required in respect of age and education and .have a minimum of 20 hours flying training. They must also be medically fit to the standards prescribed for the issue of Commercial Pilot Licences. The financial assistance provided is designed to meet approximately 70% of the cost of flying training. 
Nine New Guineans have been selected foi scholarships - five in 1966-67 and four in 1968-69. Of those selected in 1966-67, only two completed their training and they are employed by Papuan Airlines Pty Ltd. The four present scholarship holders commenced training in February 1969 and their awards are still current. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
An advance party of No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron, RAAF was established at Learmonth on 26th March 1970 and commenced preliminary works associated with development of the airfield. 
On current planning it is anticipated that the development will be completed in December 1972. 
Royal Australian Air Force Jet Training Aircraft  (Question No. 760)  Mr Barnard  asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Air, upon  notice: 
How many Macchi aircraft have been delivered to the Royal Australian Air Force. 
How many remain to be delivered. 
When will the delivery programme be completed. 
Are any Vampire aircraft still in use as jet trainers by the RAAF. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As at 21st April 1970, 69 Macchi aircraft have been delivered. 
18 RAAF and 10 RAN aircraft remain to be delivered. 
It is expected that the delivery programme will be completed by June 1972. 
There are still 7 Vampire aircraft in use as jet trainers, but it is expected that they will be phased out of service towards the end of this year. 
 I wish to make two points. The first relates to the membership of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  of the Public Works Committee. I think the honourable gentleman finds himself in a rather curious position because he and his Opposition colleagues on the Committee have put their signatures to its report. As the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has pointed out, it is a unanimous report. Let me try to enhance the honourable gentleman's argument a little by assuming that he and his colleagues on the Committee, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  rejected the proposal in the report. Why did they not say so at the time? What is the point in agreeing- 
 Whether I am on dangerous ground is a matter to be determined in my own mind. The 3 honourable members put their signatures to the report and it was a unanimous report. When the report is presented in this House, one honourable member, with the idea of trying to squeeze some political advantage out of it, said: '1 would not mind very much if the matter were referred back to the Public Works Committee and we had a second look at it.' 1 would have thought that on a matter of this nature one would have been able to make up one's mind with some measure of finality. No fresh argument has been introduced which would in any way persuade the honourable member that it would be opportune to have another look at the proposal. I think the honourable member for Wakefield put the matter with great simplicity. He said that it was a unanimous report. Now the honourable member for Hughes is saying that he wants to do away with that unanimity. 
There is another thing I want to say about the argument put by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Nobody is suggesting for 1 moment that the serviceman should live in circumstances radically different from those enjoyed by civilians. A serviceman's existence today must have some relevance to the world outside. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  adverted - I think quite properly - to the fact that this is a Service establishment. I think we must pay account to that fact. The nearest living quarters, as I understand it, are about 3,000 feet from the runway. That is the minimum distance. The honourable member must concede that at a Service establishment you must expect to hear something of the noises associated with Service activity. Particularly is this the case with a Royal Australian Air Force base. It is absurd to propose that at an RAAF base all living quarters should be moved out of the range of any noise that may come from aircraft. I think the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and other members of the Opposition have failed to take account of the fact that in the construction of these buildings due regard will be had to preventing, within the range of reasonableness and to meet the requirements- 
The honourable member for Newcastle took the view that the housing was within 30 or 40 yards of the runway and that aircraft taking off or landing would literally raise the roof. That is an absurd proposition. No person connected with the Commonwealth Department of Works would slap up buildings with, in short, complete disregard for those who are to live in them. 
I do not want to injure the honourable member's feelings but in years gone by due regard was not had for the comfort of the serviceman, and this was particularly noticeable under a Labor Government 

 Mr JAMES (Hunter) (3.24]- As a member of the Public Works Committee I endorse substantially the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Public Works Committee did show very great concern and deep interest in aircraft noise at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Pearce. The honourable member for Hughes in particular, together with other members of the Committee, cross-examined the experts from the Department of Air about this subject. If the House will hear with me, I shall quote questions put by the honourable member for Hughes in relation to aircraft noise. The following passage appears in the transcript of that hearing: 

 Mr Johnson 

Would the situation be aggravated it the Fill were based at Pearce? -  (Mr Dwyer)  The situation would be aggravated, because the Fill has a far greater noise level than the Macchi. 
How long would it take to get expert opinion about this matter - not about the  effect  of the Fill but on the desirability or otherwise of sound-proofing? - We could ask the Commonwealth Acoustics Laboratories to make special measurements at this location. The measurements would then have to be discussed with the Department of Works. The Department of Works look to the Director of Aviation Medicine from Civil Aviation to advise them. Our own medical officers would have to be consulted. Theo we would  have to consider this question in relation to the Standards Committee. After that we would have to come back to this Committee. 
I have read that portion of the transcript to point out to the House the concern- 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A new officers' Mess is included in the 1968-69 New Works Programme. Construction is well advanced and the project is expected to be completed by the end of May 1970. 
The Kitchen is designed for 25 men and the remaining facilities are designed for 15 men for later expansion to 25 men when necessary. The mess is in accordance with Services' Scales and Standards of Accommodation. 
The cost of the project is $77,500. 
Within the project there are ancillary works costing approximately $16,000. These are external hydraulic services ($10,000) and roadworks ($6,000). Where applicable, these services have been designed and are being constructed to also serve an officers' sleeping quarters block which will be constructed in the future adjacent to the new mess. 
The existing officers' mess is of temporary wartime construction and is designed for only 5 men. On completion of the new officers' mess the existing mess will be utilised as an annex to the existing sergeants' mess which is also seriously overcrowded until replacement permanent facilities are provided. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 want to begin by indulging myself to express a measure of surprise with the performance of the Opposition in this debate. I want to light up that expression of surprise in this way: If the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  had gone to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  at the beginning of this debate and said: 'We propose to arrange for 6 Government speakers to speak and we do not expect any Opposition  speaker',  the most stirring of protests would have been aroused. No doubt exists about that. 
Five Government members have spoken in this debate. 1 have become the sixth member on this side of the House to speak. The Government takes the view as I take the view - I took this view when I was a private member - that there should not be needless intrusion by Ministers into private members day debates. I suspected that that was the view of the Opposition. But, after today, after 6 Government supporters have spoken on a matter, I am left to express astonishment. Not 1 Labor member from Western 
Australia has spoken. I hope that every person in a Western Australian electorate will heed that point. lt is all very fine for my friend, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  to rouse himself and to ask a question about the future of Cockburn Sound. I would have suspected that if my friend had his heart in the job he would have been clamouring at the Whip's desk in order to speak. I suppose that, if the truth be known, when the arrangements for this debate were drawn up the list read: Government  speaker,  Opposition speaker; Government  speaker,  Opposition  speaker.  This is a superb illustration of the contention, long made by the Leader of the House, that it is utterly impossible to keep an arrangement with the Opposition. 
My friend, the honourable gentleman who is Opposition Whip - the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  - is, 1 suspect, blushing with a sense of well-disguised shame at the performance. And well he might blush. It is not only his ecclesiastical instincts which assert themselves. He realises that this is precisely the situation that has been created. An extraordinary performance! Never before in 15 years in this place have I seen 6 Government speakers follow one another on any private members matter without an Opposition  speaker  debating that matter, lt is an extraordinary situation. 
The second thing that I want to say is that the House and, I believe, the country should be indebted to the honourable and gallant member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  for having introduced this motion. Very few people who have ever sat in this Parliament can command the exceptional record of service to this country that the honourable member for Chisholm commands with service in 2 world wars, and a life-time of parliamentary service blended with a most distinguished service to this country. In general terms the honourable member's motion is unexceptionable. The Government would take the view that what the honourable member has said by way of according a high priority io the construction of Cockburn Sound does indeed represent Government policy. 
 I am delighted that the honourable member has now broken his temporary Trappist silence to say that it represents his policy. Not being given, of course, to engaging in any form of insult myself, I sat there and I heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  say when I asked quietly and with the distinctive note of politeness that marks all my ways: 'Are not you going to say something?' He said: We are waiting for the Minister.' What an incredible bleat. I concede to my honourable friend that he wields every imaginary weapon in politics in search of political support but I am surprised that he is now prepared  to resort to  flattery of me. Really and truly, this is the high water mark of his achievement. 
As to the motion regarding the construction of Cockburn Sound, the Government does accord a high priority to its construction. At the moment there is a design study taking place regarding the construction of the causeway. May I say something about the causeway. It is not, if I may with respect to the honourable member for Chisholm, simply a case of constructing the facility. I visited, in company with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Cockburn Sound site earlier this year. Plainly what must be constructed first is the causeway. 1 would like the House and the people of Australia to know that I have set under way studies to see what can be done to expedite the construction of the causeway. I make no commitments about that at all. I can only give an expression of good faith as far as activity is concerned to see what can be done to speed up the design study and the construction of the causeway. But beyond that I have asked my Department to see what can be done to construct such facilities as may be provided simultaneously with the construction of the causeway. This is a matter for technical judgment. I would suspect, speaking in the field of engineering as a complete layman, that it would be possible for some site construction to be carried out simultaneously. I do not know if that is possible but there may be valid technical objections to this. 
As far as the facilities themselves are concerned, this is in turn governed by an interdepartmental study now well under way regarding dockyard facilities throughout Australia. The cost of defences would be conceded by all, no matter what our views might be, to be simply enormous and the construction of naval facilities, as the hon ourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  said,  is  technical and complex. Beyond that, it  is  extremely costly. It  is  not - if I may borrow the language which my friend used - simply a case of saying: 'here is a bay', or to use my honourable friend's picturesque language: 'this  is  a place where we can put the car'. It is essential to have all the infrastructure, the backup facilities and the industrial facilities. 
The first step is the construction of the causeway and the second is the construction of facilities. The facilities that will be required will depend entirely on what the report on dockyard facilities produces, and in turn an assessment of that report. They are the two things. I hope that the report will be available early next month. It was my expectation - and I do not disguise my own disappointment - that the report could have been available by the end of this month, but I am now informed that for valid reasons it will not be available until early next month, and of course the Government- 
I do not take exception to hard blows in this House at all, or elsewhere for that matter, but I think that this is an extraordinary performance by the honourable member for Eden -Monaro to now seek to delay what I am saying on this matter by taking such an incredibly childish point of order. Let me say this. The Australian Labor Party has had ample opportunity to speak on this debate. For that matter it has had ample opportunity to have a vote on the motion. 
The honourable member is hoist with his own petard. He has had the opportunity for the last hour and a half lo move that the question be put. Every procedural device has been available to him. What has the honourable member done? He has sat there, as I say, in a simulated Trappist- 
Motion (by  Mr Whitlam)  negatived: 
That the question  be  now  put. 
I only hope that the country will long remember this day. AsI was saying before I was so petulantly interrupted, there have been 6 Government speakers. Every opportunity has been given to my friend. He could have followed the honourable member for Chisholm. He then could have followed the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  but he sat there sopping wet with his own satisfaction. He could have followed the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  Indeed, the honourable member for Canning with customary courtesy truncated his speech and sat down. Indeed I would have suspected what was in his mind when he sat down was: 'Well, I must give the Leader of the Opposition an opportunity to state his point of view'. If it was not the case, if charity did not pervade his being in that form, no doubt he said in his own mind: 'Well, I must give the defence spokesman for the Opposition an opportunity to state his view'. But no. he did not avail himself of that opportunity. Then the honourable member for La Trobe spoke. Goodness knows, he is possessed of an infinite sense of charity. It was only a matter of the Leader of the Opposition or of any Labor spokesman saying 'Would you mind sitting down and giving me a go'- to put it in homely language - and the honourable member for La Trobe most obligingly would have sat down. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)There is no point of order. I call the Minister. No, I call the Leader of the Opposition. 
To the motion that the House take note of the paper the Opposition has moved an amendment in the form of a motion of censure. The amendment is supported by 2 groups in the House. I may say, with respect, that one group supports it out of the simple prejudice of partisanship. The other group - which consists of at least one honourable member who has declared himself - is supporting the censure motion out of a spirit of simple conviction. The charge against the Government is one of dishonour, of failing to meet its obligation to honour an agreement. That is a shorthand account of the charge. The evidence falls within a very short compass. Let me assure the honourable member for Prospect (DrKlugman), who is trying to interject, that I have picked many juries in my lifetime and I always strive to keep people like him off them - and I have had 15 years experience. I repeat that the evidence falls within a very short compass. The only evidence upon which judgment is to be made is that contained in the minutes of the Australian Minerals Council. 1 understand that the only meetings of the Council which are relevant to a consideration of this matter are 2 meetings which were held in 1969. The first meeting was held on 3rd March 1969. At the beginning of that meeting the then Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer, made a statement. In that statement he said among other things that in the case of off-shore petroleum both the States and the Federal Government asserted jurisdiction over the seabed beneath territorial waters and over the outer continental shelf. He continued: 
The essential element in the petroleum arrangement is contained in the fourth recital set out at the beginning of both the Commonwealth-State agreement and the principal Act of the legislation itself. This states that the Governments decided, in the national interest that, without raising questions concerning, and without derogating from their respective constitutional powers, they should co-operate for the purpose of ensuring the legal effectiveness of authorities to explore for, or to exploit the petroleum resources of the submerged lands off our coasts. 
The honourable gentleman went on:  1 think it is well known that it has always been the Commonwealth's view that, were the matter to be litigated, the Commonwealth would be successful beyond the 3 mile limit. 
He continued: 
Inside the 3 mile limit the issue is not so clear; although the Commonwealth felt that there were arguments in support of a decision for Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
I have heard today charges about ambiguity of language. I think that is clear. I think it is pretty definitive. I would be interested to hear an argument to the contrary. Then my honourable friend continued: 
As to off-share minerals other than petroleum, the Commonwealth is of the view that it should proceed on the footing that it enjoys total rights outside the 3 mile limit. It proposes to legislate-- 
This is the key to the honourable gentleman's statement that he made at the meeting on 3rd March - 
It proposes to legislate in pursuance of this position. 
Then my honourable friend continued with his statement. After the statement had concluded I take it that there was argument around the table. The then Minister was asked a question by  Mr Fife  from New South Wales. The Minister replied, and then  Mr Fife  asked this question: 
We would like your assurance, if it is possible for you to give it, that there will be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth legislation is introduced. 
The honourable and gallant gentleman replied: 1 have no difficulty in giving that assurance. 
This was on 3rd March 1969.  Mr Griffith  from Western Australia stated: 
One cannot be too forthright in a matter of this nature because there are other people around the table who have their own views, but 1 personally would like to be absolutely sure that there will be no legislation presented to the Commonwealth Parliament which would face us with a fait accompli as far as the continental shelf is concerned. 
The then Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  said: 
I can certainly give an assurance that the States will be consulted again before any legislation is brought in. 
It has been said on both sides of the House that the honourable gentleman's honour is in no way being assailed, lt would be an impertinence on the part of anybody in this Parliament to seek to assail the honourable gentleman's honour. I do not wish to offend him in any shape or form. I want to put a proposition to my honourable friend and to those who may be disposed to join with him - those who may seek to support him. They are the ones to whom, out of sheer honesty, I address my argument, because it is to no avail seeking to put an argument to people whose minds are already closed. My appeal to the honourable and gallant gentleman is this: Here is sheer prejudice. Here, as far as the honourable gentleman is concerned, is an honest and deeply held conviction that an injustice has been done. I seek to address my argument to the honourable gentleman and to those who may join with him to show, as one who read the minutes and looked at the evidence on the basis of sheer and utter neutrality, that the honourable member for Farrer entered into the obligation on 3rd March 1969 to consult further with the States on the issue of the search by the Commonwealth to assert its sovereignty in the matter so denned. When the meeting was held on 26th September - I would have thought, speaking for myself - that obligation had been discharged. I know this troubles my honourable friend because he lakes the view that the obligation was not discharged. Before I deal with his argument may I just turn to the highly fraudulent argument put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam). 
1 will. 1 withdraw the description of the argument as fraudulent. When the Leader of the Opposition referred to the March meeting he made no effort whatsoever to say that there was a subsequent meeting on 26th September in the terms of the request by  Mr Fife  and by  Mr Griffith.  The then Minister for National Development had given an undertaking that there would be further consultation. 1 must tell the honourable gentleman with no acerbity at all that when I saw that undertaking given and then saw that the meeting was held subsequently on 26th September I for one took the view that any obligation was discharged. I put this argument with no heat at all. When one turns to the meeting held on 26th September I believe 2 conclusions are open. The first conclusion is that the Minister for National Development had some difficulty in giving an undertaking not because of personal views but because of the whole form of political events at that time. If one looks at the minutes of the meeting held on 26th September one finds that when the honourable gentleman was asked the position regarding any future consultations - and this point was brought out this morning in a most detached and sensible way by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  - he said: 
It would be quite impossible for me to say what the Government is likely to do, not knowing, firstly, whether we will be the Government after the election and, secondly, whether I will be the Minister. 
I have no wish to presume on an old friendship nor to be impertinent to the honourable member for Farrer, but the honourable gentleman will concede that 2 contingencies are contained in that statement. The first contingency is that the Government will be returned. The second contingency is that he would be the Minister. Could I, not from the viewpoint of wanting to take any fourth form debating points put this proposition to the honourable gentleman and to the House: What would have been the position of the States if the Gorton Government had not been returned at the last election. Am I to understand that the Opposition out of a willingness to meet what it describes as co-operative federalism would have sought to honour that obligation? 
I put this to the honourable gentleman: This is a new government and governments have various ideas and attitudes. So even if, for the purpose of accepting my honourable friend's argument, I assume that what he said is the only interpretation that is open, I put to the honourable gentleman that this being a completely new Government, new considerations could well arise. Now that the judgment of the International Court of Justice with respect to the North Sea continental shelf case has been given and the full significance of it is beginning to appear,I for one believe there are dramatically new and highly critical considerations to be canvassed. For example, if it were to be held that inmunicipal law the States did have sovereignty over the continental shelf, there are ample grounds for believing that an independent New Guinea could, as against the State of Queensland, lay claim to the sovereignty of the whole of the continental shelf stretching between the two countries simply because, as a geographic and geological phenomenon, the continental shelf there is unbroken. 
The decision of the International Court of Justice goes straight to that point and says that, irrespective of theconvention on the continental shelf, since the beginning of time, where the continental shelf is appurtenant to a State, that State has sovereignty over the continental shelf. There is no difficulty where there is a prolongation of the continental shelf out into the sea, but the difficulty arises where 2 States face each other or are adjacent to each other. I put to my honourable friend that this is a new consideration which may or may not have influenced the last Government but it is a consideration which can and must influence this Government. I now take the next consideration which is surely highly relevant. There is a new conference on the law of the sea about to be summoned. Australia would be the only nation in the world to go to that conference with the units of its federation dithering on the point as to whether the States or the Commonwealth had sovereignty over these areas. I think this is a powerful and a persuasive argument for having the matter settled one way or the other and for not entering into such arrangements as may seem fit though they may not approximate the arrangements enteredinto by the United States of America with California and the other littoral States. This is a powerful consideration and it is highly relevant. 
Is the interpretation that the honourable member for Farrer puts upon the conference of State Ministers for Mines on 26th September the only one which is open? As was pointed out by the honourable member for Corangamite this morning, the honourable member for Farrer had the greatest difficulty in giving an undertaking regarding further consultation. The minutes of the conference, at page 17, show that, when the honourable member for Farrer was asked about the difficulties of a timetable, he said: 
The writs are not returned until ( think November 24th so no new Cabinet can be announced until that date. After that undoubtedly I will put your representations to the Government - if I still happen to be the responsible Minister. 
With great respect to those who say that does not mean what it says, there is a plain contingency there and I canvass the contingencies that were open. It is my reading of the minutes of the conference on 26th September that the State Ministers rejected the Commonwealth's decision to legislate unilaterally to determine where sovereignty lay. The minutes from page 5 to the end show that the discussions which ensued related to the regime. What sort of regime? What sort of administrative arrangements were to be made? 1 say to honourable members that this is a case where 2 individuals with the utmost of goodwill have simply misunderstood each other. I think this is the highest point that one can put to the honourable member's argument. Two individuals with the utmost good faith have completely misunderstood each other. This would not be the first time that this has happened. How many honourable members in this place have, during the course of negotiations- 
Debate interrupted. 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Debate resumed. 
The last point I want to make is this: I think the highest one can put the argument of the honourable member for Farrer is that there has been a misunderstanding - call it a crude misunderstanding if you like - but I ask all honourable members in this House whether they have not at some time or another during the course of a discussion or negotiation with their best friend arrived at a conclusion when they have said one thing and they have taken the view that their friend has said something completely opposite? I do not believe that this is an occasion upon which this House should be called to censure the Government. I believe that the merits are wholeheartedly in favour of the Government's stand and I appeal to those honourable members who may be disposed to support the censure motion to think earnestly and to think realistically about all the consequences. 
There is a set procedure governing the operation of the special flight aircraft. In reply to those who hesitate to accept that view, J would observe that the Leader of the Opposition and his front bench colleagues have access to the use of these aircraft and do so on a variety of occasions. ! am not completely aware of all the circumstances upon which my honourable friend's question is based but I will undertake to convey to the Minister for Air as promptly as I can the purport of his question. 
I will first answer the last part of the question posed by my honourable friend. May I say that in view of the way he is wearing at the moment 1 am sure he would be able to board such  a  vessel. I saw the ships in Sydney during the Cook bicentenary celebrations. I must tell my honourable friend that I was impressed with their grace and beauty. Nevertheless, in candour, I think that in this day and age and in the circumstances that attend us they represent something of a mild anachronism. 1 so express that view to people whose experience and qualification would lead me to believe that that is not completely the case. I tell my honourable friend, in seriousness, that I will arrange to see whether a contemporary assessment of their utility in terms of our Australian existence can be made. 
In short, yes, there is. The matter is regulated by the convention on the high seas and deals with the doctrine of hot pursuit. I have no wish to infringe the proper function of question time so I will excuse myself and answer as crisply as I can the question raised by the honourable member. The doctrine of hot pursuit governs a customary practice in international law which has now been codified in Article 23 of the convention on the high seas. The term 'hot pursuit1 is a term of art and it is a doctrine of the utmost importance to Australia. If I may take the simple proposition of a foreign owned fishing vessel seen to be fishing in territorial waters, for example off the coast of Queenslands-say, 2 miles from the coast. Assume that this vessel then moves outside the territorial waters. The doctrine of hot pursuit would enable a warship, or a military aircraft or a ship specifically authorised by the Government to follow it, to follow that vessel. The doctrine of hot pursuit, I point out in view of the current interest in the territorial sea, is available only to a state which is a state in international law. The doctrine must be applied immediately; there can be no breaking off of the pursuit. An auditory or visual signal must bc given to the ship and there must be complete observance of all the code's provisions which are contained in Article 23. Failure to observe any of those provisions could lead to damages against the coastal state, which in the case of Australia would be the Commonwealth and not the State of Queensland. It underlines, if I may say with respect, one of the least observed aspects of current controversy on the territorial sea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Number of Industrial Agreements certified under section 31 of the Act since1956 - 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At the time the previous question was asked, the Royal Australian Air Force was equipped with 3 Mirage squadrons, 2 based at Williamtown and 1 at Butterworth. As operational, technical and domestic Mirage facilities are centred at Williamtown and Butterworth they were at that time, and continue to be, the bases best suited for the location of Mirage squadrons. 
The. Prime Minister announced on 25th February 1969, in his statement on the Australian military contribution in Malaysia/Singapore after the British withdrawal, the Government decision that 2 squadrons of Mirage aircraft would be located at Butterworth. The fourth Mirage squadron was located at Butterworth in accordance with this decision, and was a direct replacement for a Sabre squadron. 
The fourth Mirage squadron could have been located at Williamtown but the' location of 3 squadrons there would place a heavier load on the resources of that base. 
The matter literally bristles with difficulties and I have no wish, to tranquillise the honourable gentleman in any way but, to use language at least blessed by practice in this place, the matter is very much under review. The difficulty stems from 2 basic facts. Firstly, in the Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone there is no definition of what is the breadth of the territorial sea. 
The honourable member was courteous enough to inform me earlier that he proposed to raise this issue. I had the opportunity to ask my colleague the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman),  whom 1 represent in this House, to give me the file on the matter. I have looked at the file. The honourable member started off by saying that this issue was  a  denial of natural justice. I respect any person who makes that claim but I expect  a  person making that claim to substantiate it. It is not merely by way of instinct but also by way of discipline that I warm to any suggestion that there has been any denial of natural justice, that a person has not had the opportunity to be heard. I can think of nothing worse than a person not being able to put his own view forward in his defence. I say, with no sense of animosity whatever, that on this issue the honourable member has allowed his sense of passion to dominate what might be described  as  his sense of perception. The honourable member referred to this young lad who joined the Royal Australian Air Force at the age of 18 years. He is not alone in that. 
Seventeen? I was 18 when I went off to the last lot of international sports. When a person goes into one of the Services he enters into a contract, and that contract must be honoured. A person just cannot go into the Services, be it the Air Force, Navy or Army, and whistle against all authority. The Services cannot be run on those lines. This is a hard, practical world, and 1 am sure the honourable member for Banks would not argue that anyone in the Services should be able to say to a corporal or a petty officer, 'Well you can go to Bourke' and expect to get away with it. The Services could not be run on those lines. This lad joined the Air Force at 17 years of age. Obviously he found himself to be incompatible to that service. As a result of his sense of incompatibility he absented himself for 7 weeks. That is the fact, and he is not the first such absentee in history. He committed an offence by absenting himself without leave. To put it in Service vernacular, servicemen cannot expected to shoot through for 7 weeks and get away with it. Of course, when apprehended this lad had to atone for his sin. 
Be it surrender or apprehension, he had to atone for his misdemeanour, this breach of Service discipline. He was asked by his commanding officer, as was his right, whether he wished to be court martialled. I have always said that I make no admissions and sign no confessions. Looking back on the past I remember that I have had that question put to me. 
No, 1 was too cunning for that. I preferred to say, 'All right, I will face my music here.' All servicemen charged with an offence are asked whether they want to have a court martial. Most of them hope that the CO. happens to be in a good mood, so they say, 'No, 1 will face the music here.' That question was put this lad and he said, in short, that he would accept what his commanding officer had to say. 
The honourable member has said that the hearing took only five minutes. What would he expect it to take? Five hours? This lad surrendered himself, made an admission that he had been absent without leave for 7 weeks and was before his commanding officer. Does the honourable member expect some elaborate investigation to be made in this case? 
That is nol on. The lad said to the commanding officer that he would accept the summary justice of the commanding officer, and subsequently he was awarded 28 days detention, lt might be a matter of judgment as to whether in all the circumstances that sentence was adequate or severe. It was the commanding officer who saw the person, who formed an opinion and who had all the circumstances under review and he would be the only person in a position to make an assessment. I have often listened to people criticise a judge or magistrate who has handed down a sentence, some saying the sentence was severe, others saying it seemed inadequate. Until you are there and you are the person who has the responsibility of making the decision you do not know (he full and real position. Having regard to the fact that this young man absented himself without leave for 7 weeks and told the Air Force it could go its own way it would be unreal to expect the commanding officer to say: 'Well now, this is most kind of you. I will submit your name for the next honours list.' That would be entirely unreal. If a case could be made out for this lad on medical grounds then it should be done. A case can not be made out on the basis that this person was absent without leave for 7 weeks and that his commanding officers sentenced him to 28 days detention. I am sure that my colleague the Minister for Air would be happy to listen to any argument the honourable member might advance on medical grounds. But I ask him to bear in mind the simple dominant fact that the Services cannot be run along the lines of a church bazaar. 
The answer is no. The report of the interdepartmental dockyard docking facility committee is expected at about the end of this month, lt was my hope  -  I think the hope was shared by my colleague, the Minister for Defence - that the report would have been available at the end of May but, alas, our hopes did not materialise. I am optimistic that it will be available at the end of June. Of course, when it is available the action that may be appropriate to the circumstances will be taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
16th December 1967. 
Subject to final adjustment construction cost was $33,770,065. 
Periodic refit work is being undertaken at Garden Island Dockyard concurrently with the scheduled installation of the Ikara weapon system. 
Refit work is estimated to cost $690,000. Estimated installation cost of the Ikara system is $532,000. Costs are being met by Department of the Navy. 
See (3) above. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This subject is currently under intensive study. However, in general terms, any replacement aircraft would need to exceed the performance of the Mirage in all its roles. 
See (I). A decision as to whether 2 separate single role aircraft will be required will be made when the study has been completed. 
The Mirage fatigue life, based on forecast utilisation, is assessed as December 1980. Taking into account production lead time and assessed rates of attrition it is considered that the replacement aircraft should enter service in the midseventies with full re-equipment probably by December 1980. 
Until the RAAF requirements have been thoroughly assessed against aircraft developments both in Australia and overseas it is not possible to state under what arrangements the replacement aircraft will be designed and manufactured, lt is the policy of the Government that every consideration be given to Australian design and production of Service aircraft where practicable. However, it should be borne in mind that for the more complex and sophisticated equipments the limited requirements of the RAAF reduce the possibility of total Australian development and manufacture. Consideration will also be given to design and manufacture on a collaborative basis between the Australian aircraft industry and an overseas manufacturer. 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 1118) 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
3 RAAF VIP Aircraft. 
(2) 
 The man whose memory this Parliament honours today often quoted these words: l slept and dreamt that life was beamy; 
I woke and found that life was duty. 
Paradoxically the origin of this couplet was obscured from him; the force of it he well knew. We all I believe at one time or another try to grasp the meaning and purpose of life, and for most of us it is a halting and imperfect quest. It was never so to W. S. Kent Hughes. To him life was duty - duty to a power in this world but not of this world; duty to his country and to his people; duty to his political principles as he saw them; duty to those who reached out for help and who sought the gentle instinct of a firm but very generous mind. Neither he himself nor the firmest of his friends would have ever made pretence that in following his duty he was not frequently plunged into conflict, fierce and tempestuous. Nor would the most composed of his opponents have hesitated to agree that he always emerged from that conflict the same - no rancour, no meanness and no lasting hurt. Certainly he sought the vindication of his views. We all do. If the modesty of truth can intrude for a moment, how seldom is it we stop to think how irrelevant many of our views are in the infinite sweep of events? 
With his disciplined knowledge of history and with his own practised role in its creation, no sense of vanity trammelled W. S. Kent Hughes in his argument. For one to have lived out his days as our late colleague did so vigorously and with such splendid good humour and to have won such wide respect in his own country was a revelation of the man he was. That was not the boundary of that remarkable man's achievement. Few, if any, have passed through this Parliament and won such wide respect in so many countries and among so many people. We are reminded: 'For here have we no continuing city but we seek one to come'. Wilfrid Selwyn Kent Hughes has gone to his continuing city and on that list which stretches out forever we can gladly write his name. His proud and restless spirit yet shall beckon and alert. In life its constant companions were courage and honour. And now not even death can contrive to make them desert. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would hope that you would incline your generous sense of indulgence to me to enable me to correct one or two observation made by my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  I do not wish to involve myself in any battle of semantics wilh the honourable gentleman, who has referred to an incident which took place at Garden Island on Monday as being a mutiny. I say this to the honourable gentleman: He cannot meet successfully an argument by indulging in hyperbole. The term mutiny is a term of art. It has a very precise meaning indeed. In short it is an open revolt against constituted authority. To describe what took place at Garden Island as an open revolt against constituted authority prevails on me to describe that allegation as nonsense in the most refined sense. I shall give some point to the honourable gentleman. If we were to consider the position of the Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party we could say that that is in a state of mutiny because there has been a revolt against constituted authority. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said this before he moved the amendment. 
I want to make a final point. The honourable member said that crews from 5 ships, I think it was, walked off. That is simply not true. I would like the honourable gentleman and the House to know that the crews of the 'Perth', the Anzac' and the 'Yarra' resent intensely any suggestion that they walked off. I have always had a preference for complete frankness and neither my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  nor I is going to make any pretence about the fact that there had been a delay. The honourable gentleman may care to give somebody the most highly derogatory order of the irremovable digit in this matter. We are quite determined that there will be no more delay, but the honourable gentleman must appreciate that no Service is completely autonomous unto itself. The sailors concerned had a genuine grievance. 
I acknowledge it completely and utterly. There is no humbug about it at all. Their sense of grievance was recognised. The decision, to put it in the vernacular, was in the pipeline and it came out, regrettably, in the juxtaposition that it did, and wrong inferences were drawn. I would like the honourable gentlemen and the House to know that where there exists a grievance the Minister for Defence, my other colleagues responsible for the Services and myself take the view that the case should be stated and that wherever possible we will try to see that the grievance is removed with all practical speed. The honourable gentleman shows no goodwill to the Services by simply identifying the problem and not posing any practical solution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
If 1 may take a few minutes of the time of the House I would like to make a comment. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has made a lively and entertaining speech. He has argued that the quorum should not be cut because the character and quality of the Parliament would be denigrated. That is not a sound argument. 1 shall illustrate to the honourable gentleman how unsound it is. This Parliament has approximately the same number in its quorum as has the House of Commons. No compulsion is placed upon honourable members of this chamber to be here. N'o compulsion is placed on members of the House of Commons to be there when a debate is taking place. Basically I think honourable members attend the chamber if the debate is interesting. That is my basic proposition. I arn open to persuasion to the contrary but that is my argument. Frequently 1 have heard the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  make the observation that what has deadened the Parliament has been the fact that a speech has been prepared and simply read to an audience outside. This is my own view. This is an untrammelled argument in terms of Party allegiance. 
I have always been completely opposed to the broadcasting of the proceedings of the Parliament. 1 concede that in this view I am desperately in a minority. It is my view that it is this Parliament, this House, this institution to which honourable members should direct their remarks. After 15 years in this place one picks up a few ideas. I suppose one also picks up a lot of bad habits. I do not know whether I have failed ignominiously in one respect and succeeded eminently on the other. That is a matter for the charity of judgment of my colleagues opposite. But I think what has killed Parliament has been the talking to an unseen audience outside. Some of the best debates I have listened to in this place have been in the Committee stage where there is no prepared speech in the sense that a member comes in with a half hour or 25-minute speech which he has timed on the ticker and reads it off. In the Committee stage there is a little of the cut, thrust and parry of debate. One of the best debates I can recall in this Parliament was on the Matrimonial Causes Bill. Admittedly there was a free vote. The Committee debate on that Bill was of a high standard indeed. I recall the late  Colonel Bowden,  the distinguished predecessor of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who sat as  Chairman  of Committees, saying: 'Looking back on my long association with Parliament I think this has been one of the best debates I have ever heard.' 
I am sorry the honourable member for Prospect missed the point. A quorum does not improve the quality of interest at all. If honourable members are to say that 44, 45 or 50 people must be here, it does not mean that interest will be generated. With due respect to my honourable friend from Riverina, who said that every honourable member should be in this Parliament all the time listening to every speech, I venture the view that if that were to happen, at the end of 6 months every honourable member would be desperately in need of psychiatric treatment. I have long argued 2 propositions. One reform has been carried relating to the sitting days. I think the form of sitting days has been an absolute disgrace. I have also argued that our quorum should be reduced. I think that the way some honourable members over the years have called quorums merely for the sake of harassment and irritation - I hope it will not be regarded as any form of impertinence or any impeachment of anyone - has been plainly childish. Tempers become frayed here. But after all, this is a place for frank debate and a frank exchange of views. I dare say that from time to time I have upset people. This is an indictment which I present against myself. The mere fact that this happens is no reason to say: 'Ah, 1 will teach so-and-so a lesson. When he gets up I will call a quorum.' In my view this does not add anything to the dignity of Parliament. 
The House of Commons knows well in advance when a vote will be taken. On occasions some people have been embarrassed on both sides of the House when a quorum has been called on the spot. I think some of the best training for Stawell Gift runners would be for them to come to Parliament and have to sprint to the chamber from some place in Parliament House, in various circumstances, and get here within 2 minutes. I hope this reform will be carried. I think the quorum which the Parliament presently has is far too high and is absurd. 
I am informed by my colleague, the Minister for Works, that all preliminary matters relating to the design and specification of the causeway have now been completed and that a reference of the project to the Public Works Committee can be made. That Committee, as we all know, is a hard working committee but, subject to its convenience, if (he submission can be considered by the Committee with its customary sense of dispatch, as I hope it will, tenders can be called and work commenced. This of course conforms to the Government's undertaking to see what can be done to speed up construction of the facilities. If the expectation is fulfilled, this will represent a considerable saving of time. 
I begin on a mild note of praise. I praise the skill of my friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  for having avoided speaking on the Budget. This may rouse my honourable friend to a mild state of indignation but I hope he will restrain himself in the same manner as I have restrained my display of disappointment. The honourable gentleman spoke about defence. I do not quibble with bis right or the right of any other member in this House to speak about defence but I have thought, with great respect to my honourable friend, that the most appropriate time for an argument on defence to be delivered to the Parliament would have been either on a statement on defence made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or, alternatively, on the defence estimates. This may seem to be a mild error on the honourable gentleman's part, and I am not seeking to cane him in any political sense for that, but I shall take one or two comments that he has made. First, he seems to be stirred up - I hope he is not too stirred up - about the fact that in the estimates dealing with the Department of the Navy there is on the figures - I emphasise 'on the figures' - a fall in the vote related to naval construction. If the honourable gentleman does not mind my saying so, he has a rather quaint view of the way in which defence procurement proceeds. One does not simply put in an order today for a ship, pay the money tomorrow and get it on the next day. 
I sat here in what I can only describe, with a massive sense of modesty, as unbelieveable quietude while the honourable member was speaking. 
The branding has not started yet, so do not complain too quickly. The honourable gentleman surely must realise that in the Budget for last year and in the Budget for the year before, massive sums of money were devoted to meeting the expense of the DDG destroyers, Oberon submarines, aircraft and a whole host of equipment, so this year the Navy, in terms of equipment and in relation to orders, passes down into the slope. Next year it undoubtedly will be up and I wonder what the honourable gentleman will say then. 
The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  was courteous enough to tell me he intended to raise this matter this evening. I just want to make one or two remarks, not by way of confutation of what he has had to say but rather by way of explanation. In the first instance I would apologise for my apparent discourtesy in that I did not ring him back personally. The fact of the matter is that my aeroplane to Brisbane was delayed by about  H  hours and I was about 2 hours late for an engagement. I asked my Private Secretary to ring the honourable member, which he did. I thank the honourable member for the acknowledgement of the intrinsic sense of courtesy which my Private Secretary holds. It is very important to me that any honourable member in this chamber should have an opportunity to put his view instantly to a Minister. I think it is fairly well known to members of the Parliament that if they knock on my door and I am available I will certainly see them. I only hope that the honourable member does not think that there was any discourtesy on my part. I do not affect to command all the details of this matter, but I hope that the honourable member does not think that I was lacking in a sense cf compassion or, indeed, that the Royal Australian Navy was lacking in a sense of compassion. However, my understanding is that the sailor concerned had been on compassionate leave for an extended period of time. 
Well, one week. It is very difficult to make judgments in advance for how long compassionate postings or compassionate leave should be granted. In this instance the parent died. I have been informed - and I say this subject to further inquiries which I may make and further information which I may receive - that the Commodore in Western Australia, Commodore Ramsay, was at a dinner with the Governor of Western Australia and he had arranged to return to HMAS 'Leeuwin' at 1 1 o'clock, when the sailor was to attend. I have been further informed that for certain reasons - maybe fog or something else - the sailor did not come. Commodore Ramsay waited there until 1 o'clock - this was on the Friday night - but the sailor had not arrived. The airline company then rang to say that the sailor had left. I have also been informed that Commodore Ramsay had made arrangements for the sailor to stay in the Western Australia area until the Sunday night before flying back to the eastern side of Australia to join his ship. That would have enabled my authority to be sought and further inquiries to be made on the sailor's behalf. Commodore Ramsay is a person who commands a most distinguished record in the service of this country. It would be an impertinence on my part if 1 were not to say that he is a very kindly man. 
With great respect to the honourable member for Port Adelaide, the Commodore is a very kindly man. He returned from this engagement to see the sailor at 1 1 o'clock. He waited at HMAS Leeuwin' until I o'clock in the morning. Unbeknown to him the sailor bad gone straight from his home to the aerodrome and boarded an aeroplane. Commodore Ramsay was waiting to see him. Indeed, he had made further arrangements whereby the sailor could have left not on the Saturday night, as I informed the honourable member for Forrest this afternoon, but  on  the Sunday night, which would have given me an opportunity to make further inquiries. Life is hard. I hope honourable members will forgive me if I indulge in a moment of lecture on this matter. Life is very hard in the Services. However, the Services bend over backwards to try to extend compassion. This is a serious matter and not one to be treated in jest, as some honourable members opposite are treating it. Whenever a member of one's family dies it is a matter of hurt. When a serviceman has to get on an aeroplane or go back to a ship to meet a posting this exacerbates the sense of grief. 1 can understand the sailor's sense of grief and I can understand his family's sense of resentment, but in this instance it could well have meant that some person would have had to be posted to the ship in order to take the sailor's place. 
House adjourned at 12 midnight. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Local procedures have been introduced at the RAN Air Station Nowra, to re-route Skyhawk aircraft so that they do not fly over Nowra or Bomaderry, (b) Other measures will be the subject of discussion in the Air Co-ordinating Committee, on which the Department of the Navy is represented. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The announcement was made on 4th December 1968. 
Instructions for the drafting ot the necessary regulations were sent to the Parliamentary Counsel in March 1969 and variations to these were sent in September 1969. Owing to the pressures of other urgent drafting, including, in particular, regulations providing for increases in rates of pay and allowances for the Naval Forces, the regulations have not yet beeen drafted. 
Drafting priorities for regulations relating to the Navy are being reviewed to see whether drafting of the particular regulations can be expedited. 
 The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Allowances are payable to members of the Royal Australian Air Force for varying reasons and may be generally divided into two categories - 
allowances applicable to members serving within Australia or the External Territories of the Commonwealth; and 
allowances applicable to members serving outside Australia. 
Some of the allowances are common to both situations e.g. uniform allowance, marriage/ separation/provision allowance etc., and for purposes of convenience these types of allowances have been included in the comments covered under the within Australia situation. 
Speaking, firstly of the allowances payable only to members serving outside Australia or the External Territories of the Commonwealth, these allowances are provided to allow a member to maintain his Australian standard of living. Included in the numerous overseas allowances are such allowances as living and child allowances, outfit allowance, rent allowance, entertainment allowance, representation allowance etc., but due to the variations in rates and conditions which may apply within a country, between countries and according to the particular circumstances of the member concerned, it will be appreciated that this is not an appropriate time to include the specific details. An added reason, is the frequency with which these allowances change as a result of alignment with the Public Service allowances and conditions 
The circumstances in which the allowances are payable in relation to members serving within Australia or the External Territories of the Commonwealth and including those allowances common to service both inside and outside Australia are set out below, together with the rates payable in the years 1945, 1951, 1961 and 1970: 
Uniform Allowance - This allowance is payable to a member (other than an airman apprentice) of the Permanent Air Force for the maintenance ot his personal clothing and necessaries. An airman apprentice is entitled to free replacement of personal clothing (including uniform) and necessaries according to authorised scales of free replacement. 
The answers to the question by the Leader of the Opposition are as follows: 
It cost (10,432 to repair HMAS Parramatta and the repairs took 13 days. 
Particulars of repair costs of the ferry Bellubera, and the time taken for such repairs are not available to the Department of the Navy at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Alterations in pay for RAN and Papua and New Guinea personnel in the form of increases in active pay for RAN sailors, PNG and RAN Apprentices, and RAN Midshipmen are set out in the pay scale below. There are no alterations to PNG sailors and PNG Midshipmen rates of pay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 13. (b) 5. 
See attached statement 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
To provide a consolidated answer in the detail sought would not be possible without disclosing classified information. However the following information can be provided: 
Where possible, RAAF units having similar functions or requiring similar facilities are located together and the geographic locations are known as RAAF bases. There is no fixed rule in relation to the number of units on a base. There are also a number of miscellaneous units of various sizes not located on RAAF bases. Thirty-five of such units are located in the metropolitan areas of the 
State capital cities. There are 95 other units in Australia on RAAF bases. There are 21 RAAF units overseas. 
The main RAAF bases in Australia are located at Townsville, Amberley, Toowoomba, Williamtown, Richmond, Kingswood, Fairbaira, Wagga, Dubbo, Sale, Point Cook, Laverton, Edinburgh, Pearce and Darwin. 
There are over 22,000 personnel in the RAAF of whom almost 3,000 are located in the metropolitan areas of the State capital cities. There are approximately 2,200 personnel overseas. The remainder, in rounded figures and by States are as follows: 
The short answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes. The Government has decided to establish a patrol boat base at Cairns for a number of reasons, but principally because it is closest to the most favourable opening in the Great Barrier Reef and to the area where  surveillance duties will be discharged. Accommodation will be provided there. It is proposed at the moment that 3 patrol boats will be based at Cairns. It only remains for me to observe that the advocacy of the honourable member for Herbert in this matter has been persistent and has paid off handsomely. 
As the Committee knows I do not have a fragile collection of feelings but I did feel mildly outraged by the observations of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  concerning the legal profession and in particular those members of it who practise at the criminal Bar. II am sure that the honourable member with a little effort will be able to recall those halcyon days when, for some heavily disguised reason, he was a detective,sergeant in the New South Wales Police Force. I am sure that the honourable member- 
Yes, I am dealing with the Office of the Public Solicitor in New Guinea. A reference was made to it by the honourable member for Hunter. 
Do not be so tendentious. 
1 do not propose to indulge in a battle of semantics with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, but I would make it quite clear to the honourable gentleman that the term 'revolt' or 'mutiny' is a term of art and has a very precise meaning. Looking back over recent history of his own Party, I would imagine that even he by now would have some comprehension of what is involved. I want to be perfectly clear. The honourable gentleman has made the charge that there was a revolt in the P.oy?!  Australian  Navy. I want to deny that in the most explicit language. There was no revolt. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Officers of my Department have held discussions with officers of Department of Civil Aviation in regard to this recommendation. It appears that an appropriate course of action would be to undertake a proper study of the possibility of damage to buildings around airports being caused by aircraft-generated trailing vortices, vibrations, sonic booms and other phenomena. My Department has neither the expertise or necessary equipment to undertake soon a study. An approach has already been made to Department of Supply on the question nf sonic booms and it is now intended to arrange, if possible, in cooperation with Department of Civil Aviation, for Department of Supply to carry out a full study. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Discussions have been held by officers of my Department with officers of the Department of Civil Aviation and a standard method of recording complaint information will be adopted. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The allocation of the various terminal air spaces is constantly under review by the Air Co-ordinating Committee. This Committee and the Regional Air Co-ordinating Sub-Committees are aware of the need to reduce noise nuisance by aircraft and adjustment of flight paths in order to abate the effects of noise is carried out where possible. 
I think the House could better understand the pyrotechnical language of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  if I were to acquaint it with the fact that within his electorate there is the largest Royal Australian Air Force base in Australia,  lt  is a matter of notoriety that the honourable member for Oxley gets his poorest vote from the RAAF base at Amberley. Therefore, the honourable gentleman has set out this morning to try to stir up goodwill. 
At least it has not had the advantage of colliding with you. The honourable member for Oxley, who has set out to try to retrieve that position and stir up goodwill, -came along this morning with a speech that I have not -the slightest doubt he started to prepare a week after the last election when he looked at the  results and saw that his vote at Amberley was down. So he put his speech on the despatch box and read it funning almost as though he was in the Caulfield Cup on Saturday. I congratulate the honourable gentleman at least upon the fact that he contrived to finish his speech. But he roused my sensitive collection of feelings when he asked for leave to ' incorporate something in Hansard. I said: 'I have not seen it'. He said: 'You have seen it'. I am not in the habit of saying I have not done or seen something when in point of fact J have: 
1 hope the honourable gentleman will apologise. I have no doubt he could overhear the sob that came from me when he mentioned it. I had not seen the table and I did not wish to be discourteous to the honourable gentleman but 1 think it reasonable in the circumstances before one could agree to anything for one to have seen it. So much for the speech of the honourable member for Oxley. Perhaps I could make one or two other glancing blows in its direction before I leave it. The gravamen of the honourable member's complaint this morning was that the Government refuses to accept the proposal for a select committee. I thought that was handsomely dealt with by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I could think of no more atrocious way of dealing with this problem than to set up a select committee. I invite my honourable friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  to reflect upon the fact that the Senate today is hopelessly engaged on committee after committee on a great variety of subjects. There are more select committees in operation today than 1 can remember in my time in this Parliament. Would the honourable gentleman seriously suggest that the wishes of the Senate should be ignored in this matter? 1 would be surprised if that were the point of view of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, if I may make the assumption that a select committee could be set up embracing the whole Parliament then I would say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that it would be unreal to say to the Senate: 'You, of course, have no interest in this'. I think it is &amp; pretty practical basis upon which to reject the proposal. What is more, . as the honourable member for La .Trobe pointed out, with a Senate election in the offing it would be impossible to expect candidates for election to attend to this business. 
While I am on that point may I advert to the suggestion made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the universities should be consulted in this matter. I do not wish to cast the slightest aspersion upon the universities but 1 would respectfully submit to my honourable friend that universities would not be the best providers of competent people to deal with this matter. It is a matter which involves the Services and if there is Service representation by people who understand the Services 1 think this would be far better than to have someone with a mere academic approach. I do not wish to be offensive or insulting but if we were to have a purely academic approach I do not think the problem would be solved. With stronger force let me say that if we were to have a purely political approach the problem, far from being solved, would be grievously exacerbated. My colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has not attempted to disguise his and the Government's anxiety as far as the Services are concerned. It is one of the difficulties of our existence to be able to translate into the political arena the realities of Service life, ft has always been the case. Here is an attempt being made by the Government to establish a committee to examine in complete depth - 1 hope that is not a solecism - all the difficulties associated with Service life. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has sought to reproach the Government because - I think he used this phrase - it will be a secret inquiry. 
Well, in camera. I will look at that argument for one moment. Let us take the reverse of that and assume for the purposes of this examination that we were to have a public inquiry. Would the honourable gentleman suggest that witnessed should be paraded, that counsel should be there to assist the inquiry and that it should have all the accoutrement of a judicial inquiry? I have a preference for providing members of the legal profession with activity but it would seem to me to be an inept way of proceeding with this inquiry to give it all the trappings of a judicial inquiry. It is with infinite respect that I say that the man who will preside over this inquiry has one of the best furnished minds in this country. 
-He is a person who has had wide experience in his profession. He is one who commands the utmost respect wherever he has been, he is one who has seen al! walks of life in Australia and one whose personality has been submitted to Service life. These are admirable qualities for anyone who is to preside over such an inquiry. I would not accept for one moment the view that because the inquiry proceeds in camera there will be the slightest suggestion of putting to one side any matter which may embarrass the Government. If the honourable gentleman turns back on the case he sought to make out I think he will be disposed to agree with me that such a suggestion verges on being an affront to the integrity of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Kerr. I would think it quite beyond  Mr Justice  Kerr for him in any way to say: 'No, I must not accept this because it may embarrass the Government'.  Mr Justice  Kerr's integrity is completely beyond question. 
I find it difficult, therefore, to accept the honourable gentleman's view. I will proceed to deal with some of the other points which my friend has made. If we are to have the inquiry open to the public we could well have some person come along with a completely way out view on Service life. We must concede the possibility of that happening. This could be magnified in such a way as to disturb the morale of the Services and to give an impression of Service life which is quite eroneous. Do not say these way out views do not exist. Let me refer to one or two of them. There was an occasion when it was observed for the dubious benefit of the country that the best defence measure we could take would be to ensure we had a railways system of uniform gauge throughout the entire continent. That was a view on defence. Do honourable members know who gave that view? It was not a member of the public; it was the former honourable member for Parkes,  Mr Leslie  Haylen. I do not say this unkindly, but I thought that was a rather cranky view on defence. That brings me to a further view that was expressed. The honourable gentleman will recall on one occasion in this House - I rarely interject and when I do I try to do so with the utmost courtesy - the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was making a powerful forward-looking speech and he said that the country was spending 204m on defence. In those days the country was dealing in pounds. I asked, with my customary courtesy: 'Would you cut it? The House will recall what he said to me. He said that he would cut it and expand his surgery in other directions. That was a rather odd view. 
What I put seriously to my honourable friend is that this will be a competent committee. The Minister for Defence has given that assurance. It is readily conceded on all sides that the one who will preside over it,  Mr Justice  Kerr, is able, highly intelligent and a man of the utmost integrity and of wide and varied experience. Without making any commitment on the publication of the report I suggest that this will be a matter for decision at the appropriate time. I do not think any purpose is served by seeking to pre-empt a decision with respect to it. The. terms of reference of the committee are wide. I do not think this can be gainsaid. Take, for example, the first term of reference, which is: 
To inquire into and establish the principles and concepts which should apply in determining the remuneration of officers of the regular armed forces. . . . 
I cannot, for my part, see any tether to that. That is a very wide expanse. What is the honourable gentleman's complaint about that term of reference? Let us go further and I turn at random to another term of reference. It reads: 
To review the practical working of the group pay. system applicable to other ranks pay. . . . 
It would be no disturbance of the corporate existence of the Government if I said that for my part I think the group pay system is inclined to be over refined. It is a very complex system. I do not . know whether this is a view which may be substantiated or, indeed, refuted by an inquiry in depth. The group pay system never worried me in the Royal Australian Air Force, but it worries the Royal Australian Navy. And . why does it? Because the Navy was not used to it. The honourable gentleman will recall that in about 1947 the Dedman pay committee cut out the marginal differences that existed in the Navy. There was only something of the order of 6d between the remuneration of people of various skills and of various callings in the Navy. That committee cut. that out and set up, in effect, 3 broad bands of groupings within the Navy . lt became clear to the administration that as changes , were taking place in the civil society many people in the Navy were being disadvantaged, so in 1968 the Government made the decision to introduce group pay. I can well understand the sense of vexation that this caused. I have found anomalies as I have gone around ships and establishments. I have, quite deliberately, encouraged people in the Royal Australian Navy to tell me bluntly about their concern. Some of the anomalies I have discovered I readily concede are real and should never have been tolerated, ' but in abandoning the old system after so long and introducing a completely new, radical and quite revolutionary system so far as the Navy was concerned, it was inevitable that these problems would be created. I say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and to my friend, the honourable member for Oxley, that their argument for a select committee is not a well-sustained or merited argument. This will be a competent committee. It will be a committee that will, I have not the slightest doubt, produce first class results. 
Minister for the Navy) (2.39) - As my name was mentioned 1 want to make it quite clear that for my part I did not enter into any arrangement or agreement with anyone at all. Indeed, it was not my intention to speak until the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  had spoken. I am informed by my colleagues, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  that they are not aware of any arrangement that has been made. 
Well, it is a pretty serious charge to make when honourable members opposite say that an arrangment has been made and broken. If an' agreement has come into being then, of course, it should be honoured, but for an agreement to come into being there must be some demonstrable exchange of sentiment and views. I made no such exchange. I spoke to the honourable member for Oxley across the table, I spoke to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and I think from memory, fragile as that may be, that they are the only 2 honourable members to whom I spoke. It is all very fine for the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to sneer about these things. 
I am putting it to you- 
The simple point I want to make is that for my part I am aware of no agreement or arrangement. This has to be expressed in some form. I know of no arrangement or agreement that was made, and if one had been made I would be distressed to think that it has been broken. But there is no evidence at all before us as to how it was made. It is all very well for the honourable member for Oxley to get up and say. that an agreement has been made. When was it made? By whom was it made? How was it made? These are the questions that have to be answered. The honourable member for Oxley had his opportunity to speak on this. He mentioned no 2 people in this place who had made an agreement or how they had made that agreement. The honourable member has to give grounds. He cannot simply make an agreement by sitting still like a toadstool. 
Well, by a sign, any sign at all. There was no sign. What form of words was used? Who used the words? What signs were made or what agreements were entered into? The honourable member has made the charge; let him listen and take his medicine as an ex-cop. 
I withdraw it. I just want to say that there has been no arrangement entered into at all. I would have thought that it would have been incumbent upon the honourable member to have said how the arrangement was entered into. If the honourable member had done that I think he would have had solid grounds for grouch. But as things stand at the moment I think that what basically disturbs him is that in my own gentle way I ran the shearing blades over his hide. 
It is not that I have succumbed to the charms of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  but 1 am emboldened to break my silence.  His  Walter Mitty performance  this evening has prevailed upon me to say a word or two- He has complained with, I thought, a mock sense of anger about one law for Labor, one law for Liberal. He reversed it on one or two occasions and it was one law for Liberal and another for Labour. I just want to bring the honourable gentleman back to his muttons about this matter. Firs: of all he has attacked my colleague, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  about Lieutenant-Colonel Forward and my colleague's defence of him. I want to say to the honourable gentleman that it is a pretty old defence as far as our existence is concerned that one can fall back on provocation. If ever there was a glaring example of provocation given by anyone to any person ever serving in any armed Service it was offered by a Labor senator to a man serving in the field, facing angry men and being shot at. 
I will come to that. You have dished it out; see if you can contrive to take it. 
There is the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  with his brown shirt and brown tie. If he wants to have an argument he should realise one thing: There are 2 people . who will join the argument. The honourable member for Lalor could not make a fuss in a fowl house at night. Here is the case of a colonel in the field. It has been said of his colleagues that their sense of competence is such that they shelled Australian troops. I have one regret about the honourable member for Grayndler and that is that he never passed through the gentle hands of some gentle minded warrant officer disciplinarian because if he had some of his instincts today would have been greatly improved. That was the provocation offered to a serving colonel in the field. I would like the honourable member for Grayndler to know that I support completely what my colleague the Minister for the Army said when speaking on behalf of the colonel. He said: 
Admittedly there was a breach or Army regulations but it was a breach made under the influence of provocation. 
Now I want to come to the honourable member for Grayndler's argument this evening, to dignify it somewhat. He referred to Admiral Crabb. If the honourable member were to move around the Services a bit he would find out a few things. 1 have never met an admiral in my life who has not asked for more ships. I have never met a serving commander in the field who has not said he would like more troops. I do not know of any person who has commanded a group in the Air Force who has not said he would welcome more aircraft: 
It is very easy for the honourable gentleman to call in this sort of undergraduate argument and try to impeach the credibility of the Government and to fall back on the argument with which he attacked my predecessor, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  heaping upon him such contumely. I do not think that adds anything to the gaiety of affairs at all. If the honourable gentleman takes the view that by assailing a person he will impeach his argument, 1 think he has spent 23 or 30 years in this place in vain. 
In the few minutes that I wish to occupy the time of the Committee I want to refer to one or two other matters. I want to refer to the speech, adverted to by one or two honourable members, which was made by the former head of the Department of Defence,  Sir Henry  Bland. This is a speech which has been greeted as being the second deliverance of a set of tablets. I think, with great respect to  Sir Henry  Bland, that the role of critic is a very easy role and a very tempting role to fulfil, but when you have the responsibility of discharging office and when you have' the responsibility of answering to a parliament and in the ultimate to the electorate it is an entirely different proposition. What I would like honourable members opposite to face up to this evening is this simple question: Do they support the proposition that there should be integration of the Australian armed Services? That is the question I want to put to them because I would suggest that it is implicit in the speech delivered by  Sir Henry  Bland- not merely that there should be a truncation of Service activity but also that there should be in the foreseeable future integration of the Australian armed Services. 
I think this is a matter not to be discussed gaily but to be treated seriously because it involves some quite fundamental propositions. I think that if honourable members opposite are going to say that the observations which  Sir Henry  Bland offered are right in every particular they should say: 'Well, for my part I believe in integration*. But the Government stand is opposed to that. The Government believes in putting the emphasis upon joint operation and there is a welcome field of activity for joint operation. But to suggest that in this nation today in its present condition - I am talking now about its political condition, about its social attitudes, about the whole of its environmental attitude towards the armed Services - integration is in front of us is, in my view, and I believe in the view of the Government simply not on. 
I would ask honourable member opposite to heed what I am sure has been our experience in our own political organisations. That is, to appoint a committee is not to solve a problem, and I believe that most of us would take the view that one of the swiftest ways of dispensing, albeit temporarily, of a problem is to appoint a committee to solve it. One of the very real difficulties that my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and my other colleagues in the armed Services face to day is facing up to what I would describe as being one of the difficulties of decision in the past. These decisions are being made today and some people as a consequence are being hurt today, but the decisions are being made. I would like this Committee to know and I would like the country to know that the Minister for Defence is quite determined, and all of the Service Ministers are determined, to see that if a decision has to be made it will be made and it will be made with a measure of promptness. It will be to no point at all for any person to say this is something which is going to upset somebody here or upset somebody elsewhere. 
This is typical. It is an incredible thing. Here we have the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who have the most synthetic interest in defence of any trio that I can imagine on the other side. As far as the honourable member for Oxley is concerned I would be the closest to an angry man he has ever seen in his life. The honourable members opposite who are seeking to interject served only in the education service. They would know a tot about it, I am sure 
I want to come to what has been a fundamental assumption of the Labor Party in the matter of defence. This was referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  this evening and by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The one simple dominating assumption of me Labor Party in defence matters is simply this: Let the rest of the world go by. 
If one wants to have that pointed up- 
It is true, I say to the honourable member with great respect. 1 commend to him as compulsory reading the Fabian lecture given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on Australian defence last year, when he said, among other things - this is the keynote; this is the basis upon which the whole of the honourable gentleman's argument rests: 
The basic contention of the  Labor Party is  thai Australia's strategic frontiers  are  its natural boundaries. 
Where is the measure of agreement? 
Here is the honourable member for Oxley trying to persuade me to desist from finding out who agrees with that. But, if any honourable gentleman opposite is minded to reject it, I hope that he will find the sense of spirit to stand up and say so. We find this manifested in all arguments- 
Look here, Screaming Lord Sutch- 
Why don't you go and play a mouth organ? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! There are too many interjections. The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. 
I do not know what that adenoidal outburst was all about; but 1 will come back on to the argument that I was putting. I was saying that this is the base upon which the Labor Party operates today - that Australia's natural boundaries are its strategic frontiers. I suppose that this accounts for the fact that there is not one illustration of support ever having been offered by the Australian Labor Party for joint operations with any of our allies in this continent. 
Here it comes. Let us take a look at the joint operations. There is the ANZUS agreement. If one cares to grab hold of that powerful, forward looking document known as the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party- 
Frankly, I think it is couched in abominable English; but then, I. doubt whether the honourable member would be one who could arbitrate on that matter. The Australian Labor Party says:  The nation's defence must  be  no  arranged- 
1 think you are a victim of hypnopaedia. You have a gramophone underneath your bed. The Australian Labor Party says: 
The nation's defence must be so arranged- 
Really and truly! I know that the honourable member for Reid has not the brain to understand what I am saying, but I would have hoped that at least he would have found the stomach to listen to it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! There are far too many interjections from my left. Some honourable members seem to think that they can take charge of the Committee. The Minister has the right. to be heard and honourable members have the right to hear him. I suggest that the Committee come to order. 
I was quoting from this document, which I am bound to inform the Committee has an autograph inside it. It is addressed to me and it is signed by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party - a simple manifestation of Bonapartism. some may say; but still, there it is. I want to read this out. So, do not interrupt me. because it upsets me no end. It says: 
The nation's defence must be so arranged that the intention of Australia to defend herself to the limits of her ability is clear beyond all doubt to her own people, to her allies and to any potential aggressor. 
How has the tabor Party faced up to that? It has roundly trounced the agreement made pursuant to the ANZUS treaty to establish a joint base at Woomera. It has criticised American presence at Pine Gap, again a joint base. It has criticised on every imaginable occasion any AustralianAmerican operation to secure the integrity of any country outside of Australia. 
It is all very fine for the honourable gentleman to try to resist this argument. I want now to demonstrate exactly how unreal the attitude of the Australian Labor Party is in this field. Let me turn to that high authority - that impeccable authority the honourable member for Reid, who said that the Government should reduce its expenditure on armament and use the money it is now wasting On expenditure for war to work for peace; it could devote the money  10  peaceful uses such as the Colombo Plan; it should disarm and contribute to the work of the United Nations. I want to ask honourable gentlemen opposite how do' : they square the two? Do they take the View that this country can enter into ' bilateral or multilateral agreements and then resile from them simply by saying: 'We 'will contribute to something that may be going on organised by the United Nations'? A further point . that 1 would make about this is the reference of the Australian Labor Party to periodically reviewing defence treaties and alliances. 
Really and truly,  Mr Deputy  Chairman; I think that the honourable member is the best trained cockatoo I have ever seen , in this chamber. The Labor Party says: 'Australia must periodically review its defence treaties and alliances to meet new circumstances as they arise'. What does that mean? 
The honourable gentleman interjects, but I ask him: Does this mean to say that we can turn around and say to the other members of the ANZUS agreement that we will review our obligations? If there is one sure and certain fact about international life today it is that one cannot get specific performance of an international agreement. One can only fall back on the goodwill that one has built up and if we are going to repudiate agreements which we have made- 
The honourable member for St George says that no repudiation is involved. I say this to the honourable gentleman: If the review of an agreement, of a treaty, which has been laid out and solemnly signed, takes you to the point where you say it is embarrassing to us and therefore we repudiate it, that is an example of review taken to the ultimate. I think this is one of the essential points which is deserving of emphasis both in this Parliament and in the country. 
I want now to say something about the criticism that has been made by one or two honourable gentlemen concerning the Royal Australian Navy, and I would refer to the charge that was made this afternoon by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  concerning the quality of the Oberon submarines. The Oberon submarine is the best conventional submarine of its kind in the world. I have made that allegation. That is not my view as a layman; it is a view based upon those technically qualified to make such an assessment. If any honourable gentleman opposite takes the stand that he is entitled to say this is nonsense, he carries some measure of obligation to produce the  proof  and put it before us to show the basis upon which he makes that assertion. One of the very real difficulties today so far as the Navy is concerned, not merely of planning but also all defence planning, is the complexity of it. 
Yes, I was in the Air Force, and I am not ashamed of it either. The very real difficulties about defence planning today are the complexity and the cost. Those 2 difficulties are greatly exacerbated by the fact that there are enormous lead times from the time when a decision is made until there is delivery of the equipment. It is one thing today for the Royal Australian Navy to put its hand to the decision and to say it is going to commit itself to a programme of light destroyers, but it is another thing to await their actual production. I do not care into which country in the world one goes, one finds that this is a common experience. It is the experience of the 2 great naval shipbuilding countries in the Western world, the United Kingdom and the United States. I should like the Committee and the country to know that the Department of the Navy is seeking on every possible occasion to see where and how any of the timetables can be reasonably cut to ensure that the best possible equipment is provided for those who serve in the Navy and, furthermore, to ensure that the Royal Australian Navy, as it faces the very difficult years ahead, will make the maximum contribution to the welfare and security of this country. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The matters enumerated in recommendation No. 10 of the Interim Report continue to have the attention of my Department. 
The  answer  to the  honour able members question is as follows: 
(a) and (b)- 1st July 1965 to 30th June 1966-387 officers, 5.363 men 1st July 1966 to 30th June 1967-516 officers, 6,207 men 1st July 1967 to 30th June 1968-470 officers, 6,124 men 1st July 1968 to 30th June 1969-632 officers, 6,674 men 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1970-653 officers, 8,076 men 
These figures are for trained personnel only and do not include postings on entry, discharge or during initial training. The increase in 1969-70 sailor figures is due to the commissioning of new ships and the de-commissioning  of  others. 
(a) 1st July 1965 to 30th June 1966-2,173 1st July 1966 to 30th June 1967-2,262 1st July 1967 to 30th June 1968-2,748 1st July 1968 to 30th June 1969-3,247 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1970-3,240 
These figures include families involved in initial postings on entry and final postings on discharge as records held do not enable these removals to be ascertained separately. 
It is not possible from available records to provide information of the number of children involved. 
(3)- 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Forty members of the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Williamtown failed to report for duty after lunch of 24th September 1970. Ten of these members reported for duty during the afternoon of 24th September 1970 and the remainder reported for either that evening's shift or start of duty the following morning. The 40 members were later charged with being absent from their place of duly during normal working hours without permission. 
Two senior officers visited the RAAF Base at Williamtown. It is not intended to make their report available. 
The pay entitlements for equipment assistants and other musterings in the RAAF are under active review by the Trades Grouping SubCommittee and the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee. The pay for Equipment Assistants was recently increased from Trade Group 6 to Group 8. The Minister for Defence recently announced that an independent enquiry is to be made into Service pay and conditions. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953-1965 I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30 June 1969, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
 I want to make one or two brief observations. I find it very difficult to accept the impeachment of my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  regarding the manner in which this matter has been handled. I recall that only a short while ago a motion was moved by our late colleague  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes. I indicated to the House on that occasion that it was the Government's desire, and it certainly was my desire, that the project should be proceeded with with the utmost dispatch. 
The first requirement in this project was for the Public Works Committee to consider the causeway. The entire project cannot be considered unless there is, firstly, a consideration of the causeway, and I am sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will concede that. When the detailed design of the causeway had been completed the matter was referred to the Public Works Committee, and I think one could say with a sense of fairness that there was no delay there at all. I hope that the members of the Committee would not think it impertinent on my part if I were to thank them most warmly for the way in which they treated the project, at some inconvenience to themselves. 
That is so. I acknowledge it most freely. This reference was made on short notice because there had been an expression of a wish by me that the detailed design be completed as quickly as possible. The Department of Works did that, and the officers of the Department in turn put themselves out. I think it is wrong that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition should seek to persuade the House to draw the conclusion that the report of the Public Works Committee has been deliberately presented on the last day of this session for the House of Representatives. Nothing is further from my mind. It would have been a matter of agreement to me if the report could have been tabled, say, a fortnight ago but this was not physically possible. I am sure that the honourable gentleman will on reflection concede that the members of the Public Works Committee did handle this matter with despatch and that this is the first available opportunity to present the report to Parliament, lt is a matter of sheer coincidence - I could describe it in no other way - that today happens to be the last day of this session. 
As far as the facility itself is concerned, studies are under way and plainly it is, as the honourable member would admit, a matter of Government policy as to what the facility will provide, lt would be my expectation that the people of Australia will hear something about this in the very near future. I do not think that the honourable member's gentle impeachment on this matter has any basis because the Senate election is a coincidence. T say that it is a coincidence and it is nothing else. Certainly the members of the Public Works Committee put themselves out, and I thank them most warmly for what they did. 
The Minister for Air has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Male officer and airmen postings within Australia during the period concerned, are as follows: 
I regret that I am unable to supply the honourable member with that information. May 1 treat his question as being on notice and I will see that the information is provided to him. 
The oil spillage occurred because of a fracture in a weld. The pipe was installed, according to my information, during World War II. The notion that there was some measure of negligence associated with the spillage is not well founded. The pipe was examined by the Department of Works in or about June last year. It was found to be quite satisfactory. Since the spillage the pipe has been repaired and has been examined further. I understand that, in cleaning up the oil, a preparation known as gamelin was used. I know nothing about the preparation, but I understand that is used internationally as an emulsion for oil spillage. 
I know a little. To that extent I have a distinct advantage over the honourable member. I know the interest of the honourable member for Warringah in pollution generally. I would like him to understand that the Department of the Navy has sought to use further means to prevent possible spillages. One such measure is boom control. I hope the honourable gentleman will use his influence to assure people who may take the view that there was negligence on the part of those operating the oil facility that that is simply not true. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  third  time. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  asked 2 questions concerning this legislation. In the first place, he wants to know why there has been so much delay. The simple answer to the honourable gentleman is that it is inexcusable. There is simply no defence for it available. It is one of these curious accidents. I only hope for the sake of the House and for the sake of the departments concerned that it does not happen again. 
These things  do  happen and all I can do is apologise. The second question raised by the honourable gentleman was whether there is any guarantee that payments have not been made. To the best  of  my knowledge, the answer is no. My inquiries would indicate that no payments have been made. But if by chance any payments have been made they certainly will be picked up by the Auditor-General. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
 The honourable member for Wilis  (Mr Byrant)  began by saying that the solution to the distress in Indo-China is the assertion of what he described as a neutral authority' to bring the conflicting parties together. That was broadly his proposition. I would never have thought for one moment that among his blemishes in politics the honourable gentleman would encourage us to believe that he suffers from a poor memory. I hope that the House will not let go lightly the fact that scores and scores of attempts have been made by highly neutral authorities to try to secure peace in South Vietnam. It has not been merely the United States of America. It has not been merely Australia, New Zealand or the Philippines. Go through the record of the last 5 years and surely the tragedy of human effort will be clear enough there. Does the honourable gentleman say that when  His  Holiness the Pope sought to assert his own unique authority with respect to South Vietnam there was no neutrality there? What does he say about the spokesmen of the British Labour Party, who command the same sense of compassion as the honourable gentleman? Has neutrality fled from them? 
I hope my honourable friend recalls that all these efforts have been made by neutral authorities to try to secure peace in South Vietnam, and they have failed. Why have these efforts failed? They have not failed because of the South Vietnamese, on whose part there has been a complete readiness to go to the conference table. Who was responsible for the dreadful charade of the Paris peace talks before they got off the ground, so to speak? The obduracy rests not with the South Vietnamese; it rests with the North Vietnamese. That is the fact of the situation, and it is to no avail saying that that is not the case. I hope my honourable friend will concede that. I want to ask the honourable member one other thing. When he was in Cambodia  and saw, to use his own language, an invasion that parallelled the invasion of Belgium by the Germans in 1914, did he say that there should be the assertion of a neutral authority? What did he implore us to do? He said we should send arms to Cambodia to help them. 
There is a lot of confusion about the basis on which we are in South Vietnam. I do not want to attempt to oversimplify what is a complex and tragic situation, but 1 have always apprehended it to :&gt;e a fundamental principle in the conduct of international affairs that when a nation asks for help when it is attacked assistance can be given to it. It is recognised in article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. We do not have to turn to the protocol to the SEATO agreement and say that is a basis for our being in South Vietnam. This country, which is recognised by 60 or 70 nations throughout the world and which is accepted on a number of specialised agencies of the United Nations, was attacked. There can be no question about that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)This question has never been raised before. There is no substance in the point of order. 
I am trying  to  make the point that there is no doubt that South Vietnam commands international personality  and  that South Vietnam was attacked by North Vietnam. There is no denying that. The North Vietnamese have been coming down the Ho Chi Minh trail through the Centre of Tchepone for years bringing the wherewithall to sustain the invasion of South Vietnam and the invasion of Cambodia, about which the honourable gentleman complained. That is the basis on which we are there, and as my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said, we will stay there. We will maintain the commitment until such time as there is every prospect of the country being able to maintain itself. 
That brings me to the next point I want to take up. I was delighted to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  say that progress had been made in South Vietnam. That was the definite impression with which I was left after my visit there. Having seen the work that has been done there by the Australians, I was a little saddened to hear the honourable member for St George, in what I promptly describe as an outrageous speech, speak with such bitter criticism of the civic and civil aid being given in South Vietnam. 
1 listened to the honourable gentleman with what I think was an almost ghostly silence, and I hope he will try to contain himself and listen to one or two points T am making. The honourable gentleman said that we are scavenging for projects in South Vietnam. Does he call the work of the Australian medical and surgical teams in South Vietnam a scavenge? Are we to say to all the Australian surgeons who go to South Vietnam: 'You are participating' - to use the honourable gentleman's language, again - 'in a shallow public relations exercise'? Many of these surgeons are giving up their practices for 6 months, and when they return they have to pick up their practices again. To say that they are participating in a shallow public relations exercise and to accuse them of being participants in a scavenging project I can only describe as a shameful and outrageous assertion to make. 
The honourable gentleman now says that a Queensland doctor has said it. The mere fact that we find a critic does not mean that we should elevate the criticism to something rivalling that of holy script, but that is what the honourable gentleman is asking us to do. Bless my heart and soul, I have even heard by way of rumour in the last few hours a criticism concerning the administration of the Australian Labor Party. Am I to believe that? 1 want to deal with some of the other projects that the honourable gentleman described as being part of a shallow public relations exercise. Are we to say to those people working on. the Cantho water supply, on which $600,000 is being spent: 'You are taking part in a shallow public relations exercise'? 1 say to the honourable gentleman: 'At the first opportunity take yourself off to South Vietnam, go round the  traps  and talk to the people who are giving up their time and are spending money provided by the taxpayers of Australia'. This year under the three headings of SEATO aid. Colombo Plan aid and special aid 33,442,000 is to be spent by Australia. Let the honourable gentleman say to these people: 'You are taking part in a shallow public relations exercise'. 
This is not my experience or my observation. I am not prepared to say that everyone serving in Vietnam from the Australian commander down to the chap at platoon level sitting out in the bush is mistaken; but the general view of those who serve in Vietnam - you cannot help but be tremendously proud of the fact that you come from Australia when you see them in the field and see them at work - is that they have got the Vietnamisation programme to the stage today where it is working. T did not meet one person serving in Vietnam who expressed a view to the contrary. But as my colleague, the Minister for Defence, says, in terms of the future and a long range programme, no person can say with certainty what the outcome will be. The effort which has been made by this country to preserve the integrity and the independence of South Vietnam is not something that should draw shame from any person in this country, and neither is the superb effort which has been made by those serving in the fighting forces and those who are participating in the civic and civil aid programmes there. They deserve to be praised and they deserve to be recognised by everyone in this country, including the honourable member for St George. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Naval Defence Act in two respects. Firstly it seeks to repeal the existing Part V of the Naval Defence Act which covers cadets. I am sorry that I have no prepared speech, lt is in the hollow of my head. 
Yes. You could join me and that would not increase it. The present Part V of the Naval Defence Act covers naval cadets. The two relevant sections of the Act are sections 38 and 39. Section 38 of the Act deals with naval reserve cadets and it has done so for many years. Section 39 of the Act deals with a body known as the Australian Sea Cadet Corps. This Bill seeks to repeal those two sections which constitute Part V of the present Act. The second thing this Bill seeks to do is to put into effect two completely new sections of the Act. I think this is a splendid Irishman's approach to the problem; it repeals the part and then puts it back. But it is one of the quaint quirks of history that for more than 50 years this country has had two bodies of sea cadets - an extraordinary thing. Both bodies, of course, have shared in maintaing the same essential naval traditions. Both bodies have sought to encourage the same interest in the Royal Australian Navy, those who serve in it and those who have served in it. 
Strangely enough both bodies had completely different origins. The origin of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve cadets goes back to 1903 and the introduction of the first Defence Act in that year. I have taken the opportunity to look back through the debate in that year and, if I may say with great respect and humility, there were splendid speeches made by those who took part in it. I think of  Mr Knox,  the then member for Kooyong, and of a very famous name in Australian politics and in my own State of Queensland - -Lyttelton Groom, the one time member for Darling Downs. He was a man with an immense breadth of mind, a great sense of compassion and a great sense of perception. Irrespective of which side of politics one falls down on, it is clear that he always commanded respect. On looking through that debate, interestingly enough, I noted that the first member for Moreton, Mi Wilkinson, spoke. There have not been many members for Moreton and I understand it is the popular view that the present member has been there too long. It is a fascinating exercise to look back at those who took part in the debate and at the sentiments they expressed with respect to cadets. 
The 1903 Defence Act dealt with military cadets and with naval cadets. The thought of having air cadets was not present. The then member for Darling described a visit by him and other members of the Federal Parliament in 1903 to Cobar. He spoke of arriving at Cobar. There was a young man - a school teacher as I recall it - who was interested in youth movements and keen to get the youngsters in the town of Cobar alert and interested in current matters. He had equipped them with dummy rifles. The former member for Darling said that when they arrived at the railway station at Cobar and got off the train there they were, these young boys with dummy rifles and a band. To use his own picturesque language, they constituted practically a guard of honour. Guards of honour have occupied some interest in recent times. There it is - times do not greatly change. In the same debate the distinguished former member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Mauger,  expressed a view about cadets. He was opposed to the idea of having cadets. 
No 1903. Bring yourself up to date. He was worried. He thought the idea of cadets would put the young boys in jeopardy. To us his language, he said he thought they would be affected by the low jingo songs. I wonder whether in fact times have really changed. The next change to the cadet structure occurred in 1909 when the Defence Act was altered again. It made what, with respect, I would describe as superficial alterations to the provisions dealing with cadets. In the following year, 1910, occurred what in terms of my existence today, was a great event. It was the introduction of the first Naval Defence Act by the then acting Prime Minister and Attorney-General, William Morris Hughes. 
 If the honourable member examines the debate of 1910 he will see that there was some measure of controversy between William Morris Hughes and Joseph Cook about the rights and wrongs of who established the first naval defence concept in Australia. William Morris Hughes, during the course of the debate, said that the Defence Acts of 1903 and 1909 and the Naval Defence Act had to be read in conjunction. 
It is one of the pities of this world that the honourable member never was. It is very difficult to find any genuine novelty of experience or, indeed, novelty of attitude. This is apparent when one reads the speech of William Morris Hughes in 1910 when he introduced the first Naval Defence Act. He said, in effect, that because of changing circumstances in the world, nine-tenths of the great British Fleet bad to be withdrawn to home waters in the United Kingdom. Some people say that the British policy of withdrawing forces from east of Suez is something sudden and new, but in view of what was said in 1910 I wonder whether that is the case. 
The Defence Act applied to cadets and it has continued to apply to cadets ever since, although it has applied to a dwindling body of young men. From 1903 until 1929 there was universal training. Interestingly enough, in 1929, the statutory provisions relating to universal training were repealed by a proclamation issued by the Governor-General. This may seem rather strange, but that was the case. The statutory provisions of an Act were repealed by way of proclamation. Whether or not that was valid is a dry argument. However, ft is interesting to reflect that that is the way in which it happened. In point of fact, for more than 2 generations the Naval Defence Act and the Defence Act covered cadets. Then in the 1920s there came into being in Australia a small, voluntary body of people known as the Navy League'. 
Of course they have and I am indebted to my friend, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, for his interjection. The League has comprised a magnificent body of people who have sought no gain or acknowledgement. Of all the disciplines in this world the discipline which is not practised frequently enough is that of gratitude. Very few of us know how to say thank you, particularly to voluntary bodies. The Navy League in Australia is made up of voluntary people who have given of their time unsparingly. They have made a singular contribution in a very direct sense to the defence quality of this country. The Navy League has sought, as did those who were responsible for administering the Defence Act and the Naval 
Defence Act, to stimulate, encourage and arouse the interest of cadets in naval matters. As at the beginning of this month there were just on 2,000 members of the Australian Sea Cadet Corps in Australia, all of them significantly maintained by the Navy League. It has become a very real burden to these people to maintain the cadets. They have been charged with the responsibility of providing accommodation for the cadets. 
After the establishment of the Navy League, the Naval Board formed an arrangement with the Navy League and sought to assist it, but it was not until the 1950s that there was created a central body with which the Naval Board could, to put it in homely language, do business. In 1952 the existence of the Navy League in Australia was recognised by statute. This was not so long ago. This recognition is contained in section 39 of the Naval Defence Act. Under that provision the Naval Board is charged with doing a variety of things. Also under that section the Navy League is similarly charged with doing a variety of things. I would, with infinite respect to both the Naval Board and the Navy League, say that there cannot be found a clear definite line between one area of responsibility and the other. This Bill proposes to thrust upon the Naval Board - which, of course, means upon this Parliament and upon the country - the responsibility of maintaining the existence of naval cadets. In Australia today there are, I think, but 3 schools which have Royal Australian Naval Reserve Cadets. These cadets number 116 or 120 and the remainder of the cadets are attached to the Australian Sea Cadet Corps. The central purpose of the Bill is to fuse naval cadets into one body and, to that extent, it puts naval cadets on a comparable basis with Army cadets and Air Force cadets. 
The people associated with the Navy League in Australia have been and remain a splendid body of people. I am sure that this would be the view of every member ot the Parliament who has had the opportunity of any association or link with the Navy League. As I have said, we are not always as frequent as we should be in giving thanks, lt is easy to be cynical but there is much in this country and in the world for which one should be grateful. The tremendous sense of enterprise and goodwill which this body of people has shown in Australia to young men is something that I should like to acknowledge in the most complete sense. I have had the opportunity of meeting them in virtually every State. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  will be aware that I met them in Western Australia. These people have gone out of their way to ensure that young boys who are interested in ships and in the Navy are given every encouragement. Some members of the Navy League have had links with the Navy. Many of them have commanded superb records in serving this country. Some of them have not served with the Royal Australian Navy but, nevertheless, they have had an insistent interest in naval matters. I would not like any member of the House, and in particular any member who may have been associated with the Navy League, to get the view that this is the end of the road for the Navy League. On the contrary, the Naval Board looks with a sense of anxiety and hope to the Navy League to continue to sustain this interest in naval matters. The young men who will serve in the Naval Reserve Cadets from now on will be assured of 2 things. They will be assured of the abiding interest of the Naval Board and of the country in their existence, and 1 believe they will also be tremendously sustained by the genuine and most warmhearted interest shown by those who have been associated with the Navy League. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  made what I will call a picturesque speech and I will refer to it in a moment. I sought to intrude into this debate for no other reason than to put on record my appreciation of the first class speech made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I have, I am told by my critics, little capacity for flattery, but I think the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith made one of the most thoughtful speeches I have heard in this House in nearly 16 years. It is a pity that we do not have the opportunity of approaching these problems a little more frequently in this non-partisan and dispassionate way. I think some of the great debates I have had the privilege of listening to in this House have been those in which there has not been a manifestation of fierce Party views. The speech made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith certainly vindicates that view, in my opinion. 
The honourable member for Hunter spoke, as I said, in a most picturesque way. When the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spoke he looked at me and said that he did not advance the proposition that it was necessary for police officers to have a university degree in order to be good police officers but they would be better police officers if they had a university degree. I want to say something about that proposition in general. In my opinion the fact that a person has a university degree does not necessarily advance him one iota. Some of the finest men I know in various walks of life are those who have had little if any formal education. I refer to men who knock about shearing sheds and mustering camps and who have had no opportunity to go through a silver tail existence. To my mind, these are some of the finest men and I recall them with the utmost affection. They have a firm handclasp, their word is their bond and even though they may not practise the most fancy manners and cannot discuss the most abstruse academic problems they, in my opinion, and I believe in the opinion of the great majority of Australians, . still represent the great essential backbone of this country. I do not want any person to say to me that you have to go to a university in order to get some sense of respectability. This observation applies to the police force. Some of the finest police investigators whom 1 have met and whom 1 have cross examined have been those who have had no connection whatsoever with a university. 
What my friend from  Hunter  has just said is perfectly true. These people have a intuition lor their job. 
The honourable member has made a rather inane remark which cannot help the cause at all. 1 would have hoped to keep this debate on some sensible basis. 
I want lo deal with the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Oxley, which was apparently supported by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  that a person must go through university in order to command some respectability, lt is perfectly true that over the years there has been a steady change in the attitude of society towards those who participate in crime. Nevertheless, I think society is entitled today to seek to find an equapoise between deterrence on the one hand and effecting a form of sanction on the other. It is all very fine to say that we can take hold of a character who has been involved in half a dozen breakings and enterings and say to him: 'We will try to correct voir. Some of these people,  to use  the language of my friend from KingsfordSmith, are essentially recidivist and unless they are shown that society has some authority to interpose, any other treatment is quite futile. 
I think one can give some illustrations of that statement. Take a young man who may be 19 or 20 years of age who has been brought up in an environment in which his family has given him every access to a motor car and wealth.  His  father may have told him: 'For heavens sake do not drive the car if you have been to a party. Do not drive the car over 45 miles an hour'. Nevertheless the young man gets into the car and does not realise that he has in hands something which is in effect a potentially lethal weapon. The next time one sees the young man and his parents is in court One has to go through the agony of talking to the patents of the young man who may be lacing a manslaughter charge. This is where the agony occurs. What is society to do? ls society to say in that instance where the young man has all of his normal cerebral processes: Well, we will try to correct you without imposing sanctions on you'. I am talking about a specific case in which there is complete normality and where the young man involved has been given every opportunity. 
On the other hand take the case of a person who has very slow reflexes. Let us assume that this person when driving his car is involved in an accident in which a person is killed, and he faces a charge. There again society has to make up  its  mind. How does society make up its mind? Society makes up its mind by medium of the jury and by medium of the judge when the matter comes to sentence. I have had the great privilege and honour of knowing many judges. I do not know one of them who has not said to me at one time or another that in his experience the most distressing thing is the matter of sentence. Some judges have a reputation, as we all know, for being a little brittle during the course of a trial. But those judges may be the very quintescence of sentimentality when it comes to the matter of sentence. But a judge has a duty to perform. That duty is performed. However, the passing of sentence is the distressing feature as far as the judge is concerned. What this Bill seeks to do is to try to find an area in which the equipoise between deterrence on the one hand and sanction on the other can be found. This is not an easy area in which to find an answer. 
The speech made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith illustrates the fact that there are people who are involved in crime who have a great variety of mental attributes. I was once instructed to appear for a person charged with attempted murder. I went to the gaol to see him and the warder said to me: 'If you would not mind I will stand over here'. He pointed to where he would stand. 1 said: Why is that?' He said: 'This man is quite dangerous'. I asked why. He said: 'I fear that he will be violent with you'. The accused had sought to kill another man with a heavy rasp at night time. He had hit the victim around the head. Although the victim put his arms over bis head he was shockingly injured. I said to my client: What is the defence?' He said to me: 'It could not have been me'. I asked him why. He said: 'I was out killing another man that evening'. There is a rather macabre sort of humour in such a statement. That person told me that he would conduct his own defence. 
You would be the sort of person whom I would meticulously keep off a jury. I went to the trial judge because I took the view that I had a duty to the court and to society. I told him that if I had been retained by this man I would have sought to raise the plea that he was incapable of pleading to the crime. Under the law at the time - I think this is still the case - that issue had to be determined by a jury. I hold a personal view and I am sure my friend the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  will forgive me if I intrude. I think it is wrong to ask a jury of 12 people whether such a man is medically fit to plead to the crime with which he is charged. I think that such a matter should be best determined by two or three psychiatrists. This man suffered from a form of mental abnormality. He had moments of lucidity and intelligibility but he had other instances of fierce delusions. The judge found 2 doctors to examine him and the man was put away until he was capable of standing trial. This is the sort of area - it is a little point, but a vital point - that the Attorney-General is seeking to advance. To that extent I believe the community should welcome this legislation. 
I would like to say one or two other things about this Bill and about the remarks that have been made on it. I think it is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has sought to raise the old argument of Commonwealth and State relations with respect to this matter. In my experience I have never heard a Premier, a State Treasurer or for that matter a State Member of Parliament, no matter what his Party may have been, say that the police force was put at a disadvantage because of any austere approach by the Commonwealth in the field of Commonwealth and State relations. Secondly, I think it is a pity that the honourable member does not recognise the fact that many police officers today perform their duties under extreme provocation. Let me give an illustration of this. I have seen a young girl at a gathering jab a hat pin into the backside of a police officer. 1 know what my instinctive reaction to that would be; I would turn round and slap her across the face. It is not a matter of lack of gallantry. This is exactly what the police officer did, instinctively, and the charge made against him was one of police brutality. 
I have seen a number of police officers under extreme provocation. It is very easy to rubbish those who serve in the Commonwealth Police Force and in the police forces of the States of Australia, but my experience has been that to the best of their ability they try to do their jobs. They are no better and no worse than people in any other segment of the community. They seek to do their job as they understand it. I believe that the Attorney-General and certainly the Government through this legislation are seeking to find out what today is the contemporary thinking of society in relation to crime, the best way to combat it, the best way of ensuring that society has its say in striving to find that equipoise between deterrence on the one hand and, on the other hand, ensuring that the individual meets what is regarded as his due punishment. 
 in .reply - I would like to assure my honourable friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that I did not take the slightest objection to what he described as being a criticism. Indeed, if it is to represent an impeachment 1 would regard it as the most gentle and certainly the most generous impeachment every made of any member on this House. I would like to thank my honourable and gallant friend very much indeed for his kind words. I did not weary the House in my second reading speech with minutiae. I hope that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will not think it awry when I say that I believe that the disposition of this House is that a host of figures and details in second reading speechs can make the speeches somewhat wearying. 1 do not want to anaesthetise the House in any way. But I would like to assure the honourable gentleman that the question asked by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  can and will be answered speedily. I think this would be an indication of the fact that the information is readily available. 
The honourable gentleman particularly asked me whether I could give an indication of what the amalgamation will represent in terms of change. 1 am informed that the cost of the amalgamation for the next financial year will be of the order of $46,000 in terms of allowances and pay. It is not known what will be involved in terms of expenditure for buildings and so forth. I am further informed in regard to recruiting that in the period for which statistics have been kept 6 to 8 per cent of the total number of cadets who have been through the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Australian Sea Cadets Corps have become eligible to join the Royal Australian Navy. 1 suppose one may be at liberty to hold some disquiet that the figures are not greater. However, I suppose it is intelligible that many young boys find an interest in the sea and join the Sea Cadets at an early age, and that their interest is not sustained in later life for a variety of reasons. 
The other point raised by the honourable gentleman and also by the honourable and gallant member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  involves the future role of the Navy League. I should like both honourable gentlemen to understand that the Naval Board will be seeking anxiously to try to find a real and vital role for the Navy League. I believe that I indicated in my second reading speech that the Australian community, in its corporate sense, is superbly served by voluntary organisations. I dip my lid to the likes of the Navy League and the superb work that these people have done. It is not going to be easy to decide the relationship between the League and the Navy and I would excuse myself from trying to hammer out some clinic style formula ' as to what the relationship will be. I suppose this will provide an ample opportunity for the pragmatism of politics to assert itself and that pragmatism will be asserted. There is a tremendous amount of goodwill in the Navy League towards the work of the Royal Australian 
Navy and there is a tremendous amount of admiration held by the RAN for those who have served in the Navy League. 1 listened with interest to what the honourable member for Isaacs said in arguing that there should be a single cadet unit, as I understood his argument, within the schools. Plainly that is a matter of Government policy to which, so far as 1 am aware, no concentrated attention has been given. Nevertheless, it is a suggestion of a constructive nature. I do not know what difficulties would be posed by adopting that suggestion, but I should like the honourable gentleman to know that his suggestion has not gone unheeded by me. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I am not roused from my Trappist-like silence by the plainly offensive remarks of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I have risen to my feet to deal firstly with the contumely heaped on the Committee by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who described, not myself, but some of my colleagues on this side of the House as simple members. 
I will except myself from that. There is no comment that the honourable member can make even in favour or disfavour - 
No, and you are desperately light on both counts. 1 am about to make this point- 
I do not know whether the Committee is entitled to be subjected to this continual form of punctuation from the honourable member for Lalor. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Lalor to refrain from interjecting. 
I just want to make one point. As far as the honourable member for Lalor is concerned, and as far as the honourable member for Wills is concerned, if logic can possibly reach him, there are many statutes in this country. 
At least it would not be ebony like the honourable member. 
Oh deary, deary, deary me. You have never been the same- 

 - Mr Chairman, really. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! 1. must ask the Committee to come to order. There are far too many interjections. The honourable member for Moreton is entitled under the Standing Orders to be heard without interruption. I ask honourable members to refrain from interjecting. 
There are many statutes in the country which make provision for summary penalties. Many of those statutes have been introduced and have been maintained by Labor governments. 
Here it is. The honourable members for Wills, Lalor and the Australian Capital Territory say that this is wrong, ls this a serious proposition which has been put that whenever there is . a penalty involving gaol this should be put to a jury? 
All right. Let me take the proposition that wherever a gaol penalty is involved the person who may be exposed to the penalty should have the option of electing to go before a jury. There are quite- 
Please, I listened to you with what I thought was almost impossible silence having regard to the impertinence of your language. 
If you do not mind. There are some forms of courtesy which should be observed. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I have already asked on several occasions for honourable members on my left to refrain from interjecting. 
Then why do you not throw a few of them out? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no point of order in the honourable member's submission. 
The whole of our society would be reduced to a full stop. 
You are an incredible individual. 
Yes, you are. But the interpretation of the nuance of meaning I would give to 'incredible' would not necessarily coincide with yours. If every person in this country who was exposed to a penalty in terms of imprisonment said: T have the right to go before a jury' he would have to take the consequences. Take the case of ordinary traffic offences. 
I am delighted that even the honourable member understands this. Let us take the case of a person who may face a penalty of $50 or 7 days in gaol and who says: 'Ah, I have the right to go before a jury'. 

 Mr KILLEN We would have thousands of such cases. 
Really and truly, one would conclude that the honourable gentleman has lived a life of a recluse if this is his thinking. 
Look old chap, do not get yourself wound up. If you believe that you can maintain a modern society on the basis that every time a person who is exposed to a penalty involving gaol has a right to go before a jury this would be a bit unreal. I am thoroughly with those who argue that there must be a balance and that there must be a control of the powers given to a magistrate in terms of summary punishment. 
Please, really and truly, you add nothing to the quality of the arguments of your side by these continued interjections. I am about to make this point: In the Queensland Parliament recently- 
I know that Bendigo manufactures ammunition but I did not think they would manufacture such illtuned bells like the honourable member. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I have appealed several times within the last  10 or 15  minutes for the honourable member and other members who rise to speak to be heard in silence. 1 ask for more decorum in the Committee. It is completely out of order for honourable members to be continually interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  It should be well known to every honourable member in this chamber that remarks should be addressed through the Chair. If honourable members on my left would refrain from baiting the honourable member for Moreton he would be able to state his case in a much more lucid way. 
I have set more traps in my day than they have ever contemplated. 
The skilled dialectician from Lalor is incredible. I was about to make this point before I was rudely interrupted 
One would need to drive it through the honourable member's skull at 20,000 revs a minute. Recently a statute was enacted in the Queensland Parliament which made quite elaborate provisions for summary punishment. It concerned a very sensitive part of society today, involving drugs. I thought that the provisions regarding summary punishment were unreal in giving to a magistrate the power to send a person to gaol for 5 years without trial, dealing with the matter summarily. Honourable gentlemen opposite would not have to argue that proposition with me too strenuously at all. But there are laws which have been on the statute books for 70 years. One can point to scores of statutes throughout the Commonwealth introduced by the Commonwealth or the States, by governments both Labor in kidney and non-Labor in political kidney. This is unreal. I say to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for whom, despite his Wallace Beery appearance, I have the utmost affection, that it is really about time he brought himself up to date and forgot about Christopher Columbus and all that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Thursday, 22nd April 1971 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Australian Government acknowledge the fact that of the 109 nations in the world with a coastline Australia alone has not determined the question as to where sovereignty with respect to the territorial sea lies? Having regard to the fact that in 1973 there will be held an internations conference on the law of the sea, raising crucial issues, will the right honourable gentleman give an assurance to the House that the Australian delegation to that conference will not go to the conference with the question of sovereignty unresolved? 
I should take this opportunity, if for no other reason, to indicate to the House that recent events have not swept me into a state of docility, neither of servility. This is a disgraceful proceeding. It is a proceeding unworthy of the national Parliament and a proceeding which does great affront to this country. (Quorum formed). This is the 16th year in which I have sat in this Parliament and in my recollection there is no precedent for this measure. True it is a precedent can be found dealing with the guillotine relating to Bills in the same genera but there is not, to my recollection, a precedent which offers an example where some 17 Bills, many of them plainly different one from another, should be taken together, and 17 Bills with an allotment of time of 19 hours and 5 minutes. Circumstanced as I am it would be very tempting for some and irresistible for others to take what I say in this House and to attach to it some mean or debased motive. I want to make my attitude perfectly clear. 
The new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has taken over the Prime Ministership of this country at a time of great difficulty - difficulty so far as the economy and many sections of the Australian community are concerned. For my part I do not and I will not nurse any sense of bitterness. If I have something to say, I will say it. I think that has been the common experience of those who have sat in the Parliament with me in the last 16 years. I carry no chip on my shoulder. I carry no chip on my shoulder in respect of the Prime Minister or anything that he may have done. But I put the right honourable gentleman on notice. If ever a similar proceeding is introduced into this Parliament I will challenge him in the Parliament and in the country. This is a proceeding which no country with any sentiment or feeling for democracy should tolerate. How could any person with normal cerebral processes be expected to deliberate upon the massive question of rural reconstruction with the tawdry amount of time given over to it? 
Let me tell in no sense of selfishness of my experience over the last weekend. I went to Rockhampton from Brisbane to open the Queensland conference of the Air Force Association. That took up the whole of Saturday. Because Monday was a holiday in Brisbane I worked on Sunday on 2 measures which, in my anticipation, would have been before the House this week. Those measures were the Fisheries Bill and the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill. Neither is included in the programme for this week. I had no opportunity whatsoever to examine in detail, or indeed in general principles, the resale price maintenance scheme, the proposals for rural reconstruction or any other of the proposals which are now before us. This is a complete and utter travesty. I believe that the Government should take note of it: 
If I vote against this measure I can hear some of the critics now. I can hear the summons being given to some of the scribblers throughout the country to labour upon some dyslogistic course as far as the honourable member for Moreton is concerned. Well, I say this to them: I do not give a continental what they do. What I am concerned about is that I can look this parliament in the face and that I can look the country in the face. I say plainly that this is a disgraceful performance and I will have no part in it. Because I will not give the opportunity to any person to say: 'Oh, there he is, getting back, getting even' or attribute to me what I have described as a base motive, I will not vote against this motion and neither will I vote for it. I regret putting myself in that position, but I am sure that my honourable friends on both sides of the House will see the dilemma in which I am placed. I believe in the authority of Parliament and this is not the first time on which I have espoused it. I want those who already have reached for the knives to know that this will not be the last time that I will espouse it because their knives no longer hurt. The authority of this Parliament will and must be returned, and I ask the right honourable Prime Minister, who presently leads the Government, to heed the warning that has been given to him or otherwise face disaster. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
 It may well be. I believe it is something approaching an administrative tribunal. When the Trade Practices Bill was passed, I said: 'I think it is assuming, in a very real sense, a legislative authority.' If one looks at the criteria set out in section 50 of the Act I think that one comes to this conclusion. That is the first thing that I want to say to the AttorneyGeneral, whom I know will heed what I have had to say. With great respect to my learned friend, at the Adelaide legal convention which considered this matter I said: 'I may well have the sturdy views of one steeped in 18th century jurisprudence', and he agreed with me, I thought, a little too willingly on the matter. I do not want to be misunderstood on  this matter.  What I disagreed with as far as the principal Trade Practices Act was concerned, was that enormous discretions are given to a tribunal which are not readily susceptible to judicial control. If one goes through the Trade Practices Act one finds example after example of discretion being given not merely to the Commissioner but also to the Tribunal. One finds examples such as the Tribunal as it thinks fit' or 'as it may consider'. These are not readily susceptible to judicial review or to judicial control, and I hope that these matters will be considered when the Attorney-General is carrying out a review. 
The 2 things that I want to say with respect to this legislation - it is more of a Bill to be considered in Committee, but 1 cannot imgine any of us collapsing with excitment as we go through the provisions of the Bill in Committee at 10 or 20 past 6 in the morning - are: The criteria with respect to exemptions are tolerably specific, but I am a little disappointed that the Government has not been encouraged to go the stage of making provision for interim exemptions. I am concerned that hearing in these matters can be terribly long winded. Some of the hearing, at least by United Kingdom experience, have been very long drawn out. Company A may be able to flow down through one of the gateways of exemption provided under the legislation. That may be clearly the case. But, nevertheless, that company is put in the position where its trade, its company profitability, its circumstance and its whole economic environment are put in jeopardy because a hearing is not readily available to it. 
 Look, the honourable member will not relieve whatever fault he may find in the Arbitration Commission by identifying this. I am talking about a specific difficulty and it will not be exacerbated by making commentary on the matter at all. The Attorney-General said that the Government is looking closely at the procedures. I wonder precisely what procedures the Attorney-General has in mind. I ask him if he will take into account the fact that there will be companies of good repute which may say: Well, for a variety of reasons we want to maintain a resale price'. They may have available to them something in the nature of what I described as a ready exit through one of the gateways available to them. There may be some reluctance on the part of the tribunal to deal with their case. 
I hesitate because it is very easy to offer advice on these matters, but I would hope that something would be available to enable a ready hearing for these companies if they are prepared to go to the stage of offering, say damages, or meet a penalty if they do not come up to the level of exemption that is provided in the legislation. That is a very rough hewn suggestion that I put to the Attorney-General. The last thing I want to say is that I have very considerable doubt as to the effectiveness of the proposal relating to recommendations. Again, this is a subjective test and people may say that what is proposed in proposed section 66b  -  I think this is the relevant section - will enable the supplier to say: 'Well, I am recommending a particular price to be paid and to be asked for'. What I ask the House to consider, and what I ask my friend the Attorney-General to consider - and I do so with certain impertinence I suppose on my part - is this: How do you test a recommendation in a case where supplier A says that he wants you,  Mr Retailer,  to sell and that he recommends that you sell at price so and so? Let us take the motor car industry, and I do not want to be offensive to those who service the motor car industry in any respect. Take the case of a dealer who derives his living from this industry. Let us take the case in which he is asked by the supplier to sell at a particular price. Let us say that he is asked to sell at $3,000 and it is put on the basis of section 66b that the price referred to is the recommended price only. One may say that this is in the nature of inducement, but how does one test it? 
This is so. But if the supplier agrees to that, can the retailer bring the supplier along before the Tribunal and say: 'Well, here you have asked me to do this'. The fact that if he succeeds he has lost his business concerns me. There is no protection for the man who brings the supplier before the tribunal and argues the case on its merits and succeeds. There is no protection that the supplier will not say: 'All right, I will go and find someone else'. This is only one matter and I have dealt with it in its very broad sense. 
The other matter which I would like to refer to the Attorney-General is this: Under the amending Bill the AttorneyGeneral has an initiative. Under the Trade Practices Act, he has none. I think this is a pity. All that my learned friend can do is ask the Commissioner of Trade Practices,  Mr Bannerman,  or whoever it may be, to do something about this and to make something in the nature of a recommendation on the old Boyer basis. I do not say that offensively. 
He can call for a report. There is nothing terribly exultatory about calling for a report. I think that he should have an initiative. This was referred to by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I think that there should be scope for a person to air a grievance - not necessarily a private complaint. At least some opportunity should be provided for a person who has a grievance relating to a trade practice to say: 'I want to take you on and I am prepared to face the music'. I do not want to collapse on my feet. I understand that the AttorneyGeneral - poor man, I sympathise with him with my infinite capacity for sympathy - has about 3 minutes to sum up all that has been said. I am sorry to have delayed the House. I hope that I have not needlessly disturbed him by what I have had to say. 
This is a desperately exhilarating environment in which to discuss trade practices and resale price maintenance. For my part, I will forbear from intensifying the already overbearing atmosphere. Therefore, I will be brief. 
I address a question to the Attorney-General. I ask: Has the Government made an assessment of the advantages that may flow to the nation in establishing a law of the sea institute, such an institute to be attached to one of the universities in Australia? Could the honourable gentleman be persuaded to accept the proposition that the establishment of such an institute might bring some measure of enlightenment to the views that are presently influenced by superstition and groaning provincialism? 
I understand it is the wish of the Leader of the House to dispatch this motion before dinner and accordingly I must truncate what I have to say. I turn at once to thank the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for the encomium which he directed to me. I also extend thanks on behalf of the honourable member for Berowra -  (Mr Hughes).  I congratulate the honourable member for Hindmarsh most warmly On his performance. I think it was one of the best George Arliss performances J have seen but I am distressed beyond measure to find that he is in such a state of acute distraction. He said: 'My friend Killen, the poor member for Moreton.' He did not even observe his customary intonation and pronounce my electorate as 'Mortein'. I suppose we are all entitled to an aberration at some time. The honourable member has many remarkable accomplishments but for my part I would excuse myself from numbering amongst them that he is genuine in his endeavour to isolate the truth. I speak as one who was asked by the present Prime Minister not to serve and I suppose in the ordinary course of events one may draw the conclusion that that is good ground for resentment and good ground to nurse a measure of animus.  1  do not know whether it is a sign of incipient old age but for my part I am thoroughly convinced that in this world you can build nothing whatsoever on bitterness. lt may be that that is a bit old fashioned but that is my view.  1  would also be the last person on this side of the House to deny that there has been a disturbance within the Liberal Patty in recent months. That is a world of reality but are we- expected to go through life nursing hatreds and believing that we can build constructively and positively by saying: There goes that man, I wish him in hell.' Is that to be the view? That is not my view and I venture to say that it is not the view of the great majority of those who sit on this side of the House. We have our differences: I do not deny this. Indeed I assert it. But at the same time I assert that there is within the corporate good will of those who serve in the Liberal Party - those who serve here in this Parliament and those who serve the Party outside - sufficient intellectual reserve to settle the problems. Our aim is to settle those problems and indeed this will be our accomplishment. 1 have said that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  had a right to defend himself. I have always apprehended as one of the most fundamental principles of natural justice that we hear the other side. Honourable members may disagree with it, reject it or condemn it but I believe that we must hear the other side. The right honourable member for Higgins has defended himself but he did not do it according to the wishes of the Prime Minister. That was the Prime Minister's judgment but that is a resolution of yesterday. What of the morrow? We seek not to live in the past but to live in the future because that is where we are to spend the rest of our lives. I would maintain this view against any other. 
What does this motion amount to. Curiously the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that it is not a motion of censure. Not even all his well cultivated charm or the prospect of spending my days in Madrid would coax me to go over to the other side and vote with him on this motion. On that let me be quite clear. But what is the alternative? According to the Leader of the Opposition the alternative is that he is better able to lead this country. Let me say this to the honourable member: Those who would follow him would follow him only out of curiosity. The honourable gentleman says: 'Here I am, unblemished, prepared to lead you.' Moses in reverse. If he takes the view that his attitude is to be vindicated, that he is right and we are wrong, that he is better fitted and equipped to serve this country then let him answer such questions as these: Did he and his Party not go through the turbulence of the 36 faceless men while waiting outside the hotel? Where does the honourable gentleman stand with respect to  Mr Harradine?  I will defend him to the end, quoth he, and when it came to the crunch a groaning silence came over the honourable gentleman. 
Would the honourable gentleman describe his relationship with the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  as being the entente cordiale of the South Pacific? What was it that possessed the honourable gentleman to describe his own Federal Executive as witless men? Does the honourable gentleman repudiate that? Does the honourable gentleman resile from his humiliating apology to the Federal Executive? Does the honourable gentleman take the view that he and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  walked through the corridors close together, each trying to. outdo the other in murmuring: 'I'm on your side.'? What of the relationship of the honourable gentleman with the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)?  Would he describe that as being an expression of splendid harmony? 
One has only to recount these matters to come to the realisation that the honourable gentleman is not, as he asserts, better fitted to lead a government of this country. I say this to the Australian people: You cannot expect to get together a political party, a national party, having national ideas, standing for principles, having hundreds of thousands of members, sending them to Parliament, getting them in Parliament and expect to get out of it the one blob of conformity. That is not on. Whatever differences we may have will be settled, and they will be settled not merely to the advantage of the Liberal Party but to the advantage of the Australian people and those who will come and live in this nation. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister concerning the decision of the High Court of Australia in the concrete pipes case. Having regard to the consequences of the decision, can the right honourable gentleman indicate what action the Government proposes to take? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns the plight of Pakistani refugees. While acknowledging what the Australian Government has already done and the honourable gentleman's reluctance to convey the impression of intruding into the domestic arrangements of 2 sovereign nations, can the honourable gentleman be persuaded to ask explicitly of the High Commissioners for India and Pakistan in Australia whether any specific assistance can be given by Australian charitable bodies which are deeply concerned about the plight of these people? In particular, would the honourable gentleman ask of the 2 High Commissioners whether there is any need for milk biscuits to be supplied to children who, I understand, are dying in their thousands from stark starvation? 
I have known the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  for a number of years. I believe I know him well enough to say that the honourable gentleman will not sit down and sulk if I excuse myself from replying to his speech in particular. But I listened to the honourable gentleman with what I. hope he would describe as, customary courtesy. 
No, not rapt attention. There was an odd burst of boredom here and there but I listened with courtesy. A lot. of what he said, of course, would meet with approval everywhere in this House. I would cull out but one argument which the honourable gentleman advanced in the matter of education to say something about, and that is the matter of State assistance - describe it how you will. Looking at the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  I would have hardly described him as being the most boisterous supporter of aid for independent schools, but I thought the honourable gentleman was almost going to have a fit. But then somebody came along and hit him with what I suspect was a tranquillising dart and no fit came upon us. It was a great speech that came from the honourable member for Lang but I am wondering if I may remind him of the fact that a few years ago there descended upon the politics of France a gentleman rejoicing in the name of M. Poujade. He had a simple but sturdy policy - the abolition of all taxation. M. Poujade had a colourful but regrettably very brief career in French politics, but this is the point, this is what I want to talk about as far as this Budget is concerned. We can pick out from both sides of the House or - if you will excuse the metaphore - from the semicircle of th House, ideas galore and they are all fine, but they all call for money. I do not know whether I was nurtured in a peculiar school - I want to put honourable members at complete ease and at the point of utter advantage as far as I am concerned - possibly it was an odd school but I am convinced of one thing, and I think the Australian people have got to come back to this: There is nothing, but nothing, in this world that one can get for nothing. 
This is very, very true, but you might happen to get the mumps; just think of that. I want to say something about the Budget, and in particular about the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The Budget as a Bill provides for an expenditure - and I hope honourable members will forgive me quoting figures- 
Quoting figures 1 said, nothing else. The Bill provides for an expenditure of S8,654m. 
Now look, Bluey. The grants to the States will account for $2,93 lm, social services - taking in repatriation and health - $2,095m, and defence $l,252m. If we add the 3 items together they come to $6,278m. It does not sound very much citing it like that, but I just want to put it in this form. 
1 am indebted to the honourable gentleman for his interjection. Those 3 items, grants to the States, social services and defence account for 72 per cent of Budget expenditure. To put it in sharper terms, for every $1 which the Government proposes to spend 72c will come under those 3 headings. I leave to one side the remaining 28c. I just want to ask my honourable friends opposite would they cut back on the grants to the States. There is a deafening silence. Of course they would not cut back. Indeed, if honourable members opposite were to listen to the speech of their Leader, and occasion ally some of them did - 1 suspect by accident - he would kick it up. As far as social services is concerned- 
At feast we do not follow him out of curiosity. As far as social services are concerned - taking, for example, the speech of the honourable member for Lang - the Opposition would boost expenditure on them. What about defence? I suppose all of us in our hearts would like to think that one day we will arrive at the stage when not a cracker will be spent on defence. But is that day yet within our reach? I suspect it is not. These are the 3 items and they account for 72c out of every $1 we spend. The Leader of the Opposition has moved an amendment. In a general sense it seeks, as I say, to spend more money. That is a proposition which is pretty easily tested. For example, he calls for a fundamental review of social services. 1 would put this view to honourable members opposite- 
Contain yourself, please, I am not going to hurt you. I would gaily walk down Queen Street, Brisbane, with you any day of the week. 
You have a far keener perception than I was ever prepared to venture. The second thing the Leader of the Opposition calls for, in his own language, is a balance of the finances of States and local government. And then, of course, he concluded the amendment with a splendid lament. Honourable members have read it, and it should be carved in granite. He said that the Budget produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength or national security. That is a splendid aggregation of slogans. But no person I am sure, least of all the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  would gainsay the fact that the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition calls for more money to be spent. I readily concede this: In political terms the speech of the Leader of the Opposition last week, or a week ago, or a fortnight ago - time becomes a little irrelevant in this place does it not? 
At least I will be no unhappy anachronism such as the honourable member for Robertson. 
Well, I will. Look, if a seminal idea ever entered the mind of the honourable member it would be a plain case of promiscuity. The Leader of the Opposition made a superb political speech. lt was worth votes galore. As I sat here his speech had charm and sweetness and it was alluring. One found it difficult to resist. If one closed one's eyes the Leader of the Opposition's speech could almost send one out one's mind. I know that some honourable members might say that I had not far to go but that is a matter of opinion. The honourable gentleman reminded me tremendously of the siren on the rock. It is all very fine for him to describe my distinguished leader as Tiberius on the telephone. But there he was. the siren on the rock and his singing was absolutely superb in terms of getting votes. 
I want to say to the Prime Minister and to the Government - bless them, and I mean that in an ecclesiastical sense, too - to look in terms of the electorate they have to outdo, they have to surpass, the music of Orpheus. I am not suggesting to the Prime Minister that he should follow Odysseus and tie himself to the mast; nor am I suggesting that he should plug up the ears of his followers with wax; but I am saying to the Government that in sheer political terms the moment of truth has arrived when the policies of the Opposition - of the Leader of the Opposition - must be identified for what they are - thoroughly spendthrift. This has to be made quite clear. 
Well, you know, the brisk fact about the amendment moved by your leader is that he did not venture one proposal to cut back any expenditure whatsoever. Not one. What the honourable gentleman in fact called for was for more government expenditure in every imaginable field. We can take a lot of examples. I refer to a conspicuous one, when he spoke about what he was pleased to describe as the negative Liberal attitude to the federal system; the Liberal inability to operate that system. There are 2 clear inferences there. The first one is that he has an affection and regard for the federal system. That would be the joke of the year, would it not? I want to say to  Sir Henry  Bolte that if he falls for what the Leader of the Opposition says, being one of the most devoted supporters of the federal system, he will turn up at Rosehill on Saturday with the expectation of picking every winner, and I do not think that is on. 
The second inference is this: That the honourable gentleman is quite prepared to spend more money. The fact of the matter is that the Australian Labor Party is dedicated to the destruction of the federal system. For my part, I do not want to embarrass any of my colleagues. There are some who sit in the State parliaments and some indeed who sit in this Parliament who want to refight the battle of federation. That is a battle that was fought and won 70-odd years ago and they want to fight it again today. But the colonies became the States under the compact of federation. However, the Leader of the Opposition is dedicated to destroying the federal system. The other inference to be drawn from what the Leader of the Opposition said in that collocation of words was that more money must be spent in the public sector. 1 want to put quickly to the House 2 short propositions, which I hope are shorn of political involvement. 1 know that this would distress honourable members opposite and 1 will tell them what they are. The first is this: The imperative in the Australian economy today is that inflation be halted. Inflation must be halted and we should not speak about it as being tolerable. This country for many years now - for 20-odd years - in my view has been trying to do too much with too few resources. 
Ah, for the benefit of this country. I believe that the Australian economy today is very much in need of a breathing space. But every time the Government is called upon to spend more money it means that resources - material and intellectual resources as well as resources of skill and initiative - have to be diverted. Every time a member of this Parliament gets up and says that so and so should be done and that we should build a dam here or put something there - 
Yes, that is right. Shove this there and it would cheer us all up if that happened to the honourable member. Every time this is done honourable members join in the clamour of contributing to the prime cause of inflation in Australia. 
The second proposition that  1  put and which is allied to the first is a concomitant, of course, that the greatest single contribution to inflation in Australia is government spending. By government spending I mean Federal Government spending and State government spending. It seems to me to be an exercise in futility to implore the Federal Government to cut back its spending while at the same time the States go on their way and say: 'Look, we need more money for this and more money for that'. This brings me to the simple thesis that I want to propound. I think it is about high time that the Government - and I hope this is understood - put the axe into the immigration programme. 
Opposition Members - Oh. 
All right, I just want to say this to honourable members opposite: Growth for growth's sake is a spurious and dangerous national goal. Today this country should be insisting on quality in everything that it does. It should be insisting on quality in the people it brings into this country, quality in our performance and quality in our production. Those who work with their hands or work with their minds must come to apprehend one simple inescapable fact - that is that productivity is not some long latin derived word. It is word that has a significant meaning. The quality that must go into our effort, no matter where it may be, is of the utmost importance to this country. That is the thesis I propound. To bring people to this country today under a migration programme to demand of them a contribution to the Australian economy, and to demand of the States and the local government authorities roads, schools, hospitals and sewerage for them is to ask for things which in the short term are desperately nonproductive. I do not say this through any absence of command- 
No, please, I do not say this in any sense of showing a lack of compassion. All of these things do not produce in the short term - but in the ultimate, yes. What this country needs after  20  years of a quite unrivalled migration programme is something of a breathing space. We will find it harder and harder to get migrants to come to Australia. I believe that we are entitled to ask that those who come here will make a contribution to the Australian economy and will make this contribution quite readily. If we are to take the view that we will have development in terms of people as long as we have the numbers; if we are to desert excelsior as a national objective, then I believe we will demolish the quite sterling effort which this country and its people have contributed and built up over the last generation. That is the thesis. I do not know whether it is popular or not, but surely some of us occasionally can be brought to accept the idea that this is after all the national Parliament and that no matter how unwelcome views may be, we should not become allergic to them, we should be able to tolerate them. 
If I were to go over there I could lead the honourable member in a far better way than he is being ted under the present leadership, and I do not think that he is too keen following his Leader at the moment, either. The last thing I want to say is that under the immigration programme we have placed a tremendous burden on the States and on local government. This is a burden which of course they have not borne without complaint. It is one thing, as I say, for the Commonwealth to cut back on its expenditure, but it is the essence of futility to say: 'We will cut back and the States can go no their way.' That is the argument I put. We all hope that this country will gain greater strength. I think it is about time that every person in Australia realised that this is a country which has one economy. One cannot identify the Australian economy as being 6 economies and to speak about the State of Queensland as having a Queensland economy, finishing when one gets to Coolangatta. That seems to me to be one of the absurdities of the twentieth century. This is one nation which has one economy and one people. In the general sense we have one faith, and if we have both the will and the purpose we will have one splendid end, 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Does his Government acknowledge the fact that difficulties arise insofar as the Commonwealth Parliament possesses no general head of power to legislate with respect to the environment, save that power which may derive from the use of external affairs power? Is this circumstance acknowledged by the Government? Does this mean that the Commonwealth Parliament's power with respect to environmental issues remains persuasive only? Can the right honourable gentleman give an assurance that, if confronted with indifference to environmental issues by those authorities which have the power to deal with them, this Government will display resolution on the matter even to the point of being accused of centralism? 
The Committee should be grateful to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  for taking this point. When he brought it to my attention yesterday afternoon I was under the distinct impression that it concerned merely an error in drafting, but a very significant error. The proposition that evidence could be furnished against an accused person by way of affidavit is to my mind one which is rather appalling. I think it was Wigmore, probably the greatest authority on evidence the world has ever known, who said that the system of cross-examination is the finest machine ever devised for eliciting the truth, and the point which the honourable member for Berowra has put to the Committee, I can assure the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  is a point well taken and for my part I acknowledge it. 
Will the Acting Prime Minister give the plainest possible assurances to this House that before any Australians are involved in the training of any persons or people outside this country the most complete statement will be made to this House? 
1 hope that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  in his charity will forgive me if 1 do not advert to his arguments. In the few minutes which are available to me 1 want to refer to what I regard as being the central or focal point of the Commonwealth's power with respect to industrial matters. That is to be found in section 51 placitum (xxxv) of the Constitution. I want to say at once that I regard this power available to the Commonwealth to be completely and utterly inadequate for contemporary society. Having said that, may I very briefly place the background against which placitum (xxxv) of section 51 of the Constitution was written in. It was written in in 1898 at a time in which there were 6 colonies. I emphasise the word 'colonies' because they were colonies. There was little if any industrial activity. The great bulk of colonial activity in those days hinged upon agricultural and pastoral activity. It was rural activity personified and nothing else. lt was an age in which the aeroplane had not arrived. Transport and communications between and among the colonies virtually was non-existent. To go from Brisbane, say, to Melbourne in those days was a task almost of Herculean propensity, lt was a day in which people were subjected to working conditions which I would have found completely abhorrent, a day of which 1 vouchsafe the view that if I had lived then 1 would have been swept from this world into another via the gallows, not even with the benefit of clergy in attendance upon me to wish me good luck. Now I am assured of a state funeral. That was an age in which children were subjected to working conditions which no person today would be prepared to accept. These were the 6 colonies. 1 have a lurking suspicion that there are those who want to revert to colonial status. I excuse myself from that exercise. In 1898 and 1901 there was barely an inchoate sense of nationhood. But now today there is a sense of nationhood. 1 believe this is to be found everywhere, but I am dealing with the power given to the Commonwealth Parliament to legislate, subject to the Constitution, with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. 1 say that neither inflation nor industrial difficulty shows the slightest inclination to heed the existence of Coolangatta or Albury. We are living today in a country - and this seems to me to be the dominant fact of our existence - that is one nation. We have one economy and one nation with the fears, the problems and the aspirations of one people. This is the dominant fact of our existence and there are those who are roused to a sense of indignation by trying to find comfort in what I would call the pristine sense of federalism in looking upon this country as 6 colonies. I will have none of it. Nothing seems to me to be more absurd than the propounding of quite inadequate policies in the fond belief that we are adding lustre to a constitutional arrangement that began to subside into irrelevance more than a generation ago. The power that this Parliament has with respect to industrial relations is couched in excessive legalism. It is a very complex power. It is a power which is incredibly limited in the sense that there must be a dispute in being before the machinery set up by this Parliament can intervene. It is a power which is limited in the sense that a dispute must extend beyond the limits of one State. It is a power that denies to any apparatus set up by this Parliament the power to make a common rule with respect to an industry. 1 must perforce hurry on. I will deal with these 3 points. May I deal with the matter of a dispute. Respectfully I disagree with the view reached by the joint committee of the Parliament dealing with constitutional reform where the committee took the view that: 
It is possible to exaggerate the adverse effects of making disputes a prerequisite to the exercise of jurisdiction by Federal industrial authorities. 
Again with respect, I would disagree with the view reached by  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Kirby, in his Chartered Secretaries Research Lecture for 1967 when he said: 
These paper disputes . . . need have no tinge or taint of violence or acrimony about them. 
I believe it is wrong psychologically that before 2 people can reach an area of agreement they must be in dispute and I think that Kingston was right in the 1898 Convention debate when he said: 
I am a strong believer in the propriety of assisting the parties to a dispute to establish courts of conciliation in times of peace. Such courts are much more likely to be productive of good results if the trouble can be nipped in the bud than if you allow it to develop, and you have no means ready in initial stages to prevent its extension. It seems to me that you might just as well attempt to organise a fire brigade satisfactorily in the midst of a conflagration as attempt to establish a court of conciliation when the parties to a dispute are practically at each other's throats and determined to do all they possibly can to use to the utmost the strength with which they are possessed. 
That was Kingston's view 70 years ago. The power that this Parliament possesses today is utterly inadequate for the responsibilities which are cast upon it and it seems to me to be in the nature of a massive charade that the Parliament is asked to deal with disputes in this sector of 'he economy or in this part of the continent when in essence and in truth the Parliament has no power. May I turn to the difficulty which is aroused by the failure of the Parliament to confer on its bodies the power to pass a common rule. This is an absurdity surely in this day and age. In 1948 the Amalgamated Engineering Union lodged a log of claims relating to its employees. It bad to serve that log of claims on 13,000 employers. Think of the absurdity,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I hope I do not offend any of my honourable friends. There is a massive amount of good sense in this place. If you want to have an argument with a man you do not go out and say: 'I want to argue with 13,000 men'. 
In the Graphic Arts Award in 1957 the printing industry had to go out and serve a log of claims on 2,492 individual employers as respondents. It is absurd, it is time consuming and it is expensive and I do not think that this country is in the position where it can afford any longer to put up with it. I do not want to offend any lurking sense of federalism that may exist on my side of the Parliament, but I have had enough of this and I believe that this Parliament and the people of this country should, in all conscience and in good sense, turn to the recommendation made by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review and ask that the power should be conferred on this Parliament to deal, as the Committee put it, with:  . . peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to terms and conditions of industrial employment. That may upset some people, but they can get on the list as far as I am concerned. I join with the views passed by that most illustrious Australian, the late  Sir John  Latham, when he said in 1953 that the fear with respect to this power is illusory. He wrote: 
There is reluctance fn many quarters to approve any increase of federal power over industrial matters. . . . The prospect of an election is a great steadying influence. That was the view of a great judge. It was the view of a great Australian and I support it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 will not delay the House long and will take but 2 minutes to make 2 points. It is my understanding that this issue is in the stage of consideration and not at the point of decision. When I asked the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  a question yesterday regarding the training of people outside this country, his reply to me was, among other things, that the consideration that is now being given is to training a limited number of Cambodian personnel in Vietnam. I want to make my position clear. That refers to a consideration, not to a decision, and it would be my expectation that should a decision be taken on this issue the decision will be announced to the Parliament. That is the first point I want to make. I excuse myself for a variety of reasons from indulging in any of the polemics as far as South East Asia is concerned. It has been a matter of grief to the world and I will not indulge in any argument on it. 
The second point 1 want to make, however, [ believe to be of some importance. The most curious aspect of this issue to my mind is that the request to the Australian Government came not from Cambodia but, allegedly, from the United States Embassy. Beyond that, the request was not made by the United States Ambassador. I could conceive of the possibility that in certain extreme circumstances a United States Ambassador would go to the Department of Foreign Affairs and act vicariously but I submit that one's imagination would be a little hard pressed to get to that point. I hope the House will not let go unnoticed the significance and solemnity which attaches to the practice of an undisclosed official from an embassy - be it the United States or any other embassy, and I do not want to reflect upon that generous power - going to a government, even though it may be at low key level. That does not in my opinion exonerate or exculpate the situation that has arisen and that is the focal point of my concern. 
If the request had to be made it should have come from the Cambodian Embassy. If has been a practice recognised for centuries - since history has been recorded - that a nation if it is in difficulty can ask any other nation to help it. That principle of international law is inscribed in article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. It sets out that without regard to any regional agreements whatsoever a nation under attack is entitled to ask for aid. I accept the proposition which has been advanced that Cambodia is under attack, and plainly under attack, but that is an argument in favour of the Cambodian Government saying quite explicitly: 'We want your aid'. 
The Prime Minister, when he came back from that region earlier this year, said just that and the House indicated in a variety of ways its willingness to agree with that proposition. If we are to accept the view that we can conduct foreign affairs in this curious and vicarious fashion where do we finish? What if a power should come to Australia today and say: 'Would you mind giving assistance to India because we want to clean up Pakistan and we want to be involved in the Middle East'? This may be absurd but is there any point of distinction between that circumstance and the one which we are considering? 
I have observed that the United States of America has been and is a great and generous power whose people have been kicked in the shins all around the world. I can understand their attitude. But it is this sort of involvement which disturbs me more deeply. I will not reflect on the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  but 1 would describe what has happened administratively as a grand imperial display of bungling about which I hope something will be done. The honourable and gallant gentleman has said something will be done about it. It is no skin off anybody's nose, if one makes a mistake, to say so. Ultimately, people respect it and the honourable gentleman, to his great credit, has made no effort to dissimulate or disguise what has happened. He has come forward in a quite forthright way. He said: 'We have made a mistake and we are trying to do something about it'. My misgivings do not lie in that field. If I were in the Minister's shoes there would be some people getting a tip-toe around the Department by the end of the week, I can assure you. 
My point of distress is this strange and vicarious approach to the conduct of foreign affairs. If Cambodia asks us for assistance that is a request that can be considered, debated and decided on its merits. This country should not be placed in a position in which its capacity to assist can be enlisted and its independence can be affected by any person who may come along. Surely a sense of national pride still exists in this country. For my part, 1 believe that this country is now at the threshold where it must determine for itself a more emphatic national personality. It will not fashion that personality if it succumbs to the appeals, the blandishments or the requests of an unknown, unstated official of any embassy, be it the United States Embassy or the Embassy of Afghanistan. 
-The discussing of this report is, I believe, an opportune time for the House to put itself in command with respect to the definition of the privileges of this Parliament. The privileges of this Parliament are, as they are spelt out in the Constitution, those of the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom until such time as they are otherwise defined. The House will recall - or many members will - the celebrated Browne-Fitzpatrick episode. My recollection is that the Prime Minister of the day,  Sir Robert  Menzies, undertook, if not explicitly I believe certainly by inference, that the House at some time should define what the privileges of this Parliament are. The proposition that I will put may seem at first blush to be a rather distant link, but I hope that the House will bear with me for a moment. I believe that there is now a greater urgency with respect to this having regard to the fact that the United Kingdom is going to enter the European Economic Community. The whole of the parliamentary system in the United Kingdom will undergo a fundamental change. I think this is conceeded whether you are for or against the British entry. To the extent that there is a change in the United Kingdom, I believe, our position will be influenced. If we do not define privileges for ourselves, if we allow the privileges of this Parliament to be those of the United Kingdom, then if those are influenced or shaped in any way, ours will be. I think this is the point that the House must look at, and I believe that the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  should put the position for the Government. I think the time for procrastination is over. I urge the Government to treat this matter seriously so that an attempt may be made to define in terms of the Australian circumstance what are the privileges of this Parliament. 
There are 2 other points 1 want to make. There is no expressed right for a person to be heard before this House. There is the old audi alteram partem rule of hear the other side but without reflecting on any legislature there has been a recent case where part of a legislature did in fact pass a motion relating to a man's position without hearing him. In this case those who are involved appear before the Committee and are heard, but if the House is going to censure, fine or goal any person, that person should be beard. I believe this should be expressed in the most explicit terms. There has been one breach of that rule recently. Before a man is to be condemned he should be heard. I use the word 'condemned' in its technical sense, be he condemned by way of censure of the House or condemned in terms of gaoling. I think it would be a very great pity that if in defining the privileges of this Parliament that point were not to be taken. 
It happened in the Australian Parliament but under the Standing Orders one is not entitled to reflect on another chamber, and I am not reflecting on it at all, but I would have thought that any person with a nodding acquaintance with what has been going on in their country in the last few months would know the case to which I am adverting. The next point I want to raise is the right of a person before the Privileges Committee to be represented by counsel. 1 do not criticise the gentleman who serve on the Privileges Committee. I have had the opportunity in the past of serving on it. 1 hold strong views that an individual who is taken before a committee should at his own election have the right to be represented. A person who goes before the Privileges Committee goes into a very strange environment. People respond in different ways. It is a strange atmosphere. You may find a person who would lose his self-confidence, or a person who might answer questions in a fashion which might incriminate him. Of course, there must be a reason  i.i all  things, but I think that if a person asks for the right to be represented he should be given that right. Admittedly it is true that, as this report observes at page 29,  Sir Erskine  May states: 
Counsel: Lack of judicial form - 
Persons accused of breaches of the privileges or of other contempts of either House are not, as a rule, allowed to be defended by counsel; but in a few cases incriminated persons have been allowed to be heard by counsel, the hearing being sometimes limited to 'such points as do not controvert the privileges of the Houe'. 
Again 1 would suggest that if in denning the privileges of this House we can bring ourselves, or lurch ourselves, towards taking that decision it should be expressed in explicit terms that if a man is to appear before the Committee he should have the opportunity of being represented by counsel. 
1 give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That this House is of opinion that until such time as evidence of a request from the Cambodian Government to the Australian Government to provide instructors to train Cambodian troops in South Vietnam is tabled in this House, no Australian serviceman- be ordered to instruct Cambodian servicemen in South Vietnam. 
I agree with the proposition of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that we are living in a totally different world. Nevertheless I would try to encourage from the honourable gentleman his concurrence with the view that benevolence has not become the dominating characteristic of this world. That is precisely why a nation needs defence. I agree with the honourable gentleman that it is a matter of looking sensibly and realistically at the defence threats posed to this nation. The great pity is that in the Estimates debate 10 minutes is scant time to examine this, even superficially. I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  at the earliest opportunity to give the House an opportunity of discussing, on a defence statement, the relationship between defence and foreign affairs. One cannot be isolated from the other. I think it is quite absurd to discuss defence considerations and to put to one side attitude* regarding foreign affairs. 
In the 10 minutes available to me 1 am not able to answer some of the points made by my honourable friend - not out of any discourtesy or reluctance to engage in dialectics with him. Time is against me and 1 am sure that, with his immense sense of charity, he will understand that. I agree., at feast in pari, with the remarks passed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  regarding the light destroyer programme. The light destroyer programme in Australia has been started off by an immensely talented and dedicated band of Australians. These people have worked very hard at their job. 1 had the opportunity - albeit for a short time, punctuated for reasons which one day may possibly intrigue the historians - of seeing something of their work at first hand. They are a superb bunch of men. But we cannot build on their talents alone. A government decision is required. In this matter time is very much against the Government and very much against the country. In the late 1970s the Royal Australian Navy will be on the threshold of a critical time in relation to the age of its ships. This is not a revelation of something that is secret or confidential. All one has to do is go to Jane's Fighting Ships', see when the ships were launched, make appropriate adjustments and reach the conclusion that the late 1970s will be a very critical time indeed. I do not envy the Government in having to make a decision on this, but if we are to be committed to the DDL project simpliciter then it will call, as the honourable member for Wentworth said, for the diversion of immense resources to sustain the project. There must be an acceptance by the Australian people of the burden which it will represent. But my point is that there is a critical time and that time is not very far away from this day. 
The second point I want to make concerns defence organisation in the general sense. T do not agree with those who have this untrammelled enthusiasm to have one amalgamation of forces. I think it defeats the psychology of people who enlist in the Services. For example, I think a young man joins the Navy because he is interested in ships. I think a person joins the Air Force because he likes messing about with aeroplanes and a person goes into the Army because he is attracted by Army life. We cannot get rid of these subjective attachments. It is very fine to hammer out some blue print and say: 'Here it is, the Australian Services machine'. A young man is not interested in this, and one of the difficulties that I feel at liberty to say that I would see in the establishment of any joint defence college is that we would get precisely the young man who goes from school at an impressionable age with all the enthusiasm in the world and who is interested in a particular Service. If we throw him into a college where he starts out for the first 6 or 12 months mixing with fellows who do not share the same interests as he has I think we may diminish the value which he would be in the position to offer to the Australian nation. So I would say that whereas the emphasis should be and must be upon joint operations in every possible respect and upon understanding the climate in which the various Services work, please do not be susceptible to the proposition that we can put the one uniform on the man and he can be an Air Force man today and a naval officer tomorrow. It simply will not work. 
Having said that, may I briefly turn to some of the remarks which were passed this afternoon by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and in particular to his conception that in the future Australia will be very much on its own. I believe that this is the dominant factor in the defence of Australia today. The assurance which the  Tight  honourable the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  got from the distinguished leader of the American people regarding ANZUS is a welcome assurance, but these assurances have been given before. What I do want to put to the Committee is this: This country cannot in all circumstances and at all times depend for its existence upon some other power. If we look at what was written by  Mr Nixon  in 'Foreign Affairs' in October 1967, when he wrote as a private individual, long before he assumed the awesome responsibility of  President  of the United States, we see that he wrote on Vietnam to this effect: 
One of the legacies of Vietnam almost certainly will be a deep reluctance on the part of the United States to become involved in a similar intervention on a similar basis. 
He went on to say: 
If another friendly country should be faced with an externally supported Communist insurrection - whether in Asia or Africa or even Latin America- there is the serious question whether the American public or the American Congress would now support a unilateral American intervention, even at the request of the host Government. 
I believe - and it is no disrespect to  Mr Nixon  to say this - that there in its inchoate state was the Nixon doctrine, and 1 believe that all of our defence planning must be based upon the fact that we are substantially on our own. This is an a fortiori argument as far as the United Kingdom is concerned. If the United Kingdom goes into the Common Market then the political identity of that country in the years to come will succumb and be lost within the framework of a European federation. The political significance of that, I believe, is deep and far-reaching, and as yet unplummetted by us all. The defence significance of it is stark, it is clear and it is emphatic. We cannot depend upon the sentiment of yesterday. In the consideration of our defence responsibility and capability it would be unreal to place heavy reliance or, indeed, much reliance upon British involvement. There are the coming generations of those who will be born within the British Isles who will be influenced by new considerations and new convictions as citizens of a new Europe. It is not for me to condemn in any shape or form that development, but this will, I believe, be the development. The old links will have shredded and this is the adjustment this country must make in so many respects. We are not going to make it if we believe that we can, by looking back in some sentimental fashion to the past, find the encouragement and the wherewithal to sustain our defence effort today. We cannot depend upon the dewy dawn of memory. We must look to our own skills, our own resources and our own sense of will. 
The amendment suggested by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  does not meet the objections I have in mind. I am wondering whether 1 can persuade the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to give us, the Committee, an undertaking, to use words which are well known in this place, to have another look at this proposal and, if need be, move an amendment to the Bill in the Senate. I shall tell the Minister my objections to the present arrangement. I have known men who have been to Vietnam in "Sydney5 on 2 or 3 occasions but who have no entitlement to the war service homes advantages. This is quite wrong. 1 have known characters who have flown Hercules aircraft into Saigon and various other places in Vietnam, and who have operated other aircraft, but because they have not gone there ostensibly charged with operational duties they are not entitled to the advantages of the war service homes provisions or to wear ribbons. 1 have never disguised, even when I was Minister for the Navy, my objection to this. An able seaman in 'Sydney' is not in a position to say to the Naval Board: 'If I served on HMAS 'Perth' off the coast of Vietnam 1 would have an entitlement but because 1 serve in 'Sydney' I do not have an entitlement'. 
With great respect to- my honourable friend, he completely misconceives the philosophy of the War Service Homes Act and 1 will swiftly demonstrate it to him. Those who volunteered for service in the Royal Australian Air Force during the last war and did not get out of Australia have a war service homes entitlement. So the honourable gentleman's proposition that there must be actual service abroad is a proposition that cannot be sustained. This is an . incredibly artificial situation into which we have got ourselves. The Minister is a person of goodwill and has tried to defend the position as best he can, but 1 am wondering whether he could be encouraged to give to the Committee an undertaking that by the time this Bill gets to the Senate the Government will say: Those people who have served, particularly in South Vietnam, in one of the 3 Services, even though they have not been committed to an operational theatre, should have an entitlement.' 
 Not the entire Navy. 
 There is no need to be lugubrious about it. 
 If a man has gone to Vietnam 3 times in 'Sydney' 1 think he should have an entitlement and I will not withdraw from that position at all. There could be a person who has taken aircraft into South Vietnam and run whatever hazards may be involved. On the other hand there could be a person who actually has been committed to a theatre of operations in South Vietnam and within 24 hours of his arrival there he is qualified under the 
Act. I do not say by any means that he is not entitled to it but this situation seems to me to raise a rather difficult and a highly artificial attitude. It will not cripple the country. Bless my heart and soul, with $1, 600m pouring into Australia this year, what is involved here is peanuts. This will not heat up the economy: It is no reason why any person should come out in a fever. It will not cripple the Budget. We managed today to introduce a Bill appropriating$30m for some other cause. 
This is an opportunity to show an expansion of mind and some imagination. I hope the Minister for Housing will say to the Committee quite crisply and as curtly as he likes:I have got the message. I will undertake to have a look at it without commitment and will take it over to the Senate. If need be, I will report back to this House'. This will not take any skin off the Minister's nose and it will not take any skin off the nose of any other person. 1 only hope that the Minister will do it. 
The acerbity of language which the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has used does not in my view contribute anything at all to solving the problems which are before the Committee. I have used the plural of the word 'problem' because there are in my opinion two distinct problems as far as this amendment is concerned. May I state them? The first is to broaden the war service homes entitlement so as to give every servicemen and every ex-serviceman an entitlement to war service homes. That proposition stands on its own. .1 am informed - and I have no reason to doubt - that in general figures this proposition would involve some 300,000 ex-servicemen and would call for an initial sum of $60m. 
The second problem is the problem to which I adverted last Thursday evening. That was the problem of those who have gone to Vietnam - the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  agrees with this - but who have nol gone there specifically charged with operational work Can I tell the Committee how this problem originated? Some time last year, when I was the Acting Minister for Air, my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on the adjournment one evening raised the case of members of the Royal Australian Air Force who flew out of 
Richmond to Saigon on a number of occasions. My honourable friend put to me the dilemma that these people were in. He said quite briskly and, with respect, quite accurately firstly, that they had no repatriation cover; secondly, that they had no war service entitlement; thirdly, that they had no basis upon which to found an eligibility for membership of the Returned Services League of Australia; and fourthly, that they had no entitlement to wear any Vietnam ribbon. The honourable gentleman referred to the fact that a number of these characters - I used the term 'characters' on Thursday night in no sense of disrespect; they are members of the Air Force and every one of them is a great character - were a bit browned off. My sympathy lay with them because it had been my experience, as Minister for the Navy, to find members of the Navy saying: 'Why is it that, when we serve in HMAS "Sydney" and take troops and equipment to Vung Tau, we are not covered by the Repatriation Act and are not entitled to war service homes assistance?' In those days - this would be no infringement of an oath as an Executive Councillor - I discussed it with members of the Department of the Navy and we put various views to the Department of Defence. Those views went through the departmental channels and were processed. T thought that this was in fact an anomaly but an anomaly, firstly, that was deserving of being cured and, secondly, that could be cured. That is why, on Thursday night, when I began my speech I said: 
The amendment suggested by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  does not meet tha objections I have in mind. 
And it does not meet the objections I have in mind. The objection I had in mind, as my honourable friend conceded, was the position of these servicemen who through no fault of their own had gone into what I describe as a theatre of war. It seems to me to be a silly and precious form of characterisation to say that going into Saigon in 1965-66 was not going into a theatre of war. That was the view I took on Thursday night. I maintain it. May I point out to the Committee 2 anomalies. They are quite palpable. 
It does not. I am reasonably capable of putting my case without any assistance from the honourable gentleman. I want to mention the case of a young sailor serving on the gun line of a destroyer. He had been there for a short time when he developed appendicitis and an appendectomy was performed. Having gone on to the gun line in the role that he did, he has a repatriation entitlement, a war service homes entitlement, he is entitled to wear a Vietnam ribbon and he also has eligibility to join the RSL. This sailor was transferred to HMAS 'Sydney'. AH those on the 'Sydney' have no such entitlements. I suggest that this is wrong. I think it is an anomaly. What form of words will cure it I do not know. May I give another illustration. A flight-lieutenant taking a Hercules aircraft into Saigon - in 1965-66 taking aircraft into Saigon certainly had a measure of hazard about it - was hit by mortar fire. What is he covered by? He is covered by the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. He has no war service homes entitlement, no entitlement to wear a Vietnam ribbon and no eligibility to join the RSL. Yet a person who had gone into Vietnam, who had spent the requisite amount of time at Nui Dat and who was similarly wounded is covered by the Repatriation Act. 
What I am putting to the Committee with the utmost goodwill is that the form of distinguishing between the 2 cases is desperately artificial. In what way are we to cure this anomaly? I put it to my honourable friend from Reid that he can move an amendment to the War Service Homes Bill which in one grand sweep will cover the lot. My objection on Thursday night and my objection now is that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid does not refer to the people that I have specifically in mind. What I suggest the Committee should do and what I hope the Parliament will do is go to the fountain of origin of this silly distinction, and that is the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. I am quite convinced that if we got the advisers from the relevant departments together they would be able to come up with some formula which in a critical sense would cover the objections which I have in mind and which 1 have had in mind for some very considerable tune. 
On Thursday night the Leader of the House, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  said in the Parliament that he had seen the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and that an undertaking had been given that this matter would be considered. I was informed this afternoon by the Minister for National Development that a paper prepared by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is currently before the Cabinet. I believe implicitly what the Minister for National Development has told me and I hope that the Committee will believe the Minister for National Development. I asked the Minister for Housing on Thursday night whether he would give us an undertaking to have another look at the matters I have raised and possibly have an amendment to the Bill put down in the Senate. But an amendment to the Bill put down in the Senate would meet my objections to it only with respect to war service homes. It would not meet my objections with respect to repatriation or eligibility for membership of the Returned Services League. 
The honourable member has normal cerebral processes. He can follow my argument. The last point I wish to make is that the specific objection cannot be covered by the honourable gentleman's amendment. I said that plainly on Thursday evening. I want to arrest what is a very real morale problem, particularly for the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. I tell honourable members with complete candour that I have met people in both Services who have said: 'Why on earth do you draw this distinction? It is not our fault that we arc involved in transport work, going in and out. It is not our fault that we are posted to HMAS "Sydney" when we could have served on one of the escort destroyers on the gun line'. They are my objections. If any person has any doubt or ambiguity in his mind I hope, in the name of heaven, he will put his hand up. 
does him little credit, but J would have hoped that some quality of literacy would have reached out to control that honourable gentleman and also the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  There have been two amendments on this Issue. One was moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  last Thursday evening. May I remind the Committee and, in particular, the honourable members for Lang and Hughes, what I said about the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid? Can ihe honourable member for Hughes hear me? 
1 am glad that he can hear me. Possibly it may soak in. Listen to what 1 said. I said: 
The amendment  suggested  by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  does not meet the objections I  have in mind.  ls that clear? I said that the amendment did not meet my objections, and that is reported at page 3718 of Hansard. Is there any doubt about that? Has the honourable member for Hughes any doubt as to what that means? 1 said that it did not meet my objections. Does the honourable member for Lang understand what I meant when I said that the amendment did not meet my objections? Then 1 went on to say why it did not meet my objections and T gave the reasons. What has happened? The honourable member for Lang, who is trying to interject, had his say. 1 said that the amendment did not meet my objections, and then 1 referred to the specific anomalies concerning those who had gone into the Vietnam area. One is fired either by a sense of malevolence or by goodwill, and those who look at the facts of this case will make up their own minds on it. What happened? A second amendment was introduced. Docs the .second amendment meet my specific objection? lt widens- 
Of course it does. It is very much like setting fire to the house in order to gel the cat out into the garden. Of course it is all right, but there are two positions, and I will put them plainly to the Committee this afternoon. lt is a broadening of the whole scheme. It is a radical proposition. That stands on its own. My complaint stands on its own. The honourable member for Hughes comes into this chamber and talks to me about backsliding.  His  footwork would need to be pretty fancy if he were to say that outside and survive without getting a blood nose. A second objection was raised by the honourable member for Lang. In the 16 years I have been a member of this Parliament I have never seen the honourable gentleman offer one mild protest as far as his position in his own Party is concerned. I throw back the gauntlet to the honourable members for Reid, Lang and Hughes. If they put down an amendment which takes in specifically those who went into the Vietnam area, we will see whether they will vote for it. 
I will tell the honourable gentleman why. lt is not easy to include such an amendment in the War Service Homes Act, unless one includes in clause 3 an amendment to this effect: 'and those who, while being serving members of the 
Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy, have gone into the South Vietnam area'. That then would cover my objection. 1 have mentioned my other objections to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and 1 have never pulled back from them, and the honourable member knows it. I have made clear my position with respect to the Repatriation Department and the question of a serviceman's eligibility to join the RSL and to wear the Vietnam ribbon. My four objections should properly be taken together. Until February of this year, when ambition among some people in this place was no longer trammelled by reason, 1 thought there was a solution, and it ill becomes the honourable member for Lang to say that I did nothing about it because when I was Minister for the Navy papers on this issue were prepared and had been put to the Department of Defence.It just shows the fanciful view the honourable member has of the way that the Service departments operate. They do not operate as islands unto themselves. The 3 of them operate together, under the Department of Defence, and the story has to be sold to them. That is the difficulty which the honourable gentleman will not face up to. 1 have asked the honourable gentleman to look at this not out of any sense of malevolence but on the basis of simple goodwill. 
My complaint on Thursday evening was quite clear. I said that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid did not meet my objections. I thought that was plain even to those who have had no formal education whatever. It did not meet my objections. AmI to understand that people who had the benefit of higher education, such as the honourable member for Lang and the honourable member for Hughes, do not understand plain English. What is wrong? I have always thought until this afternoon that there was an acute state of normalcy about the 2 of them. But why do they abandon this state now and adopt a preference to treat the Queen's English in this fashion? And I hope that that does not jar any republican in the chamber. What I would like to do, and what I would like to think pursuant to the information given to me by the Leader of the House I have succeeded in doing, is to cure this anomaly. But I want to cure it in other directions and that is why I intervened last Thursday night and why I have spoken again this afternoon. 
I  present  the  following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That a alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of  a  value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
 Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the 
Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australian will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
 And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I find myself substantially in agreement with what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has had to say. I will indicate to the House my position with respect to this amendment in a few minutes. There is a town called Charleville in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and outside Charleville there is a little river called the Langlo River. Many years ago there used to be a hotel at the crossing known as the Langlo Crossing Hotel. 1 once ran out of petrol about 60 miles from the Langlo crossing, but nothing very much attaches to that. It is not the first occasion on which I have run out of petrol. I mention the experience simply because I believe that it illustrates the position of the wool industry. When I ran out of petrol it was very easy to identify the problem and what had gone wrong. However, to solve the problem was another matter. This is precisely the case with the wool industry. It is very easy to identify the problem with the wool industry. What should be done is another issue. 
For myself may I say that I believe that this Parliament for 20 years and this country for 20 years or more have been  incredibly susceptible to 2 arguments. The first is that if anything goes wrong with the wool industry it will respond to what I describe as palliative treatment. The second susceptibility to which I believe we have fallen prey is that if a person suggest that there should be any measure of control or regulation of the wool industry people raise their hands in horror and say: 'Oh, this is a dreadful infringement of the principle of free enterprise and nothing should be done*. 
There is a very famous man who lived worked, wrote and spoke 2 centuries ago. I must confess to my sins; I still read him. He was Edmund Burke. Scores and scores of aphorisms can be picked out from Burke' and most of them have a position in our society today. One of them of which 1 am very fond of reminding myself is this form of words of his: That which is not practicable is spurious. In other words, if you have a proposal and you cannot do anything with it, forget about it. That has been the great strength of the British people. They try something and if it does not work they dump it. There is a sense of folly in persisting with something that simply does not work. I hope I can speak wilh usual frankness tonight. I believe that the wool industry can no longer endure in its present state, and to persist with trying to run this great industry on the present basis is in my opinion false, spurious and quite without any practical application. 1 think that the country has to shed its cultivated sense of timidity with respect to the wool industry. It has to be prepared to be radical. I do not care whether what I am going to say will be called socialism or calathumpianism, but I am in favour of it. I believe that the wool industry has to embark on a quite radical approach to its problems. I believe , that the WOOl industry must be placed on a comparable basis with the sugar industry in Australia. 
Hear my argument. By the time I sit down I may have persuaded my honourable friend to agree with me. 
I have not given up hope even with you. It now brings me to explain my position with respect to the amendment. I would decline from supporting the amendment; I would decline from opposing the amendment. I do so on 2 grounds. I hope they are clear. I will strive to make them intelligible. Strange as it may seem, the first ground upon which I do not support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson is that in my view it does not go far enough. That may shock the honourable member for Dawson. 
I might be able to persuade you. The amendment does not go far enough and I will explain that further to the honourable member. The second ground on which I decline to support it is the announcement by the Government that  Sir Richard  Randall has been appointed to look at the problem having regard to the recent gathering or crescendo of events which have fallen upon the wool industry. They are the two grounds. As I expose my arguments I hope that the House will see the basis upon which they are founded. I agree completely with the honourable member for Dawson that there should be a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and dispose of the Australian wool clip. I go further - and this may jar some of my Country Party friends. I believe that there must also be woven into this form of con.trol of the wool industry a form of control of production. 
Please do not hasten to condemn me until you have heard my argument on this count because I believe that there is a case to be made out. 
I am glad to hear you say that. I go further than my friend, the honourable member for Dawson.I illustrate the grounds upon which I say this. I refer to the 1970 report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics entitled 'The Economics of Wool Classing'. 
The Minister for the Interior and myself have subjected ourselves to the discipline of acquiring a knowledge. 
Are you not flattering? Fancy your saying that at 20 past 1 1 at night. 
Indeed, yes. I am delighted that  Sir Richard  was appointed because he brings to the job not only an immense experience of Treasury and government matters but also a knowledge of the shed, a knowledge of the industry and a knowledge of the people who work in the industry. I draw the attention of the H ouse to page 3 of the 1970 report, which states: 
This reportpresents the results of a number of experiments designed to test the proposition that prices paid for sale lots of wool sold at auction are related to the standards of classing; that is for wools which are otherwise similar, the better the classing and higher the price. 
That is the first proposition. If any person wants to make any woollen article - a blazer, suit material - he has a specification in mind. He places his order. The textile manufacturer sends the order to the mill. From the mill the order goes to the top maker. From the top maker the order goes to the wool buyer, and the wool buyer goes to the auction room, wherever it may be. The order may be for, shall we say, a 60s class of wool. The buyer has been instructed what to buy. Wool is remarkably susceptible to processing. Today one of the difficulties in the wool industry is to find in the first place that quality which the wool buyer wants and in the second place to find the necessary sweep of uniformity. I have seen sheep which give literally, 3, 4 or even 5 different classes or quality of wool in the one fleece. This is not good enough, and that is the reason why the wool industry will not survive on its present basis. This brings me back to the matter of quality. One does not get quality unless one is prepared to insist upon getting it. One cannot insist on quality unless one is prepared to cull and to cull severely. I have told some of my colleagues 
That is one of the views of the honourable gentleman. That may be so. This, in my submission, is quite true: One cannot get quality unless one insists upon getting it. Quality will not be achieved without insistence upon the right breeding stock. If people turning in a mixture of wool from sheep of any sort are tolerated quality will not be attained. That, in my view, is the argument with respect to control. It is of no avail for the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  or any other honourable member to say that quality does not count. 
Well, I do not know. The honourable gentleman murmered what I thought was some measure of disagreement with the proposition I was putting. 
He did not? I apologise. I hope that the honourable gentleman with bis sense of charity will forgive me. We will have a chat about it later over a cup of tea. 
Well, anachronism is not always one sided. I take leave to remind the honourable gentleman that the last speech that I made in this House on wool was delivered on 21st May 1957 - before the honourable gentleman arrived here. I do not know whether there was any sense of prophecy in my words in those days, but I bad this to say: 
The development of wool has not yet been brought to the stage where it commands all the various characteristics of synthetics. I am the first to agree that wool possesses many characteristics that synthetics, do not as yet command, but. that b no argument for saying that synthetics will never, at any time in the future, command the characteristics of wool. I refer again to the smugness and self-satisfaction that prevail in the minds of many people who are directly associated with the wool industry of this country, in that smugness and self-satisfaction there lies a very  real  degree of danger. 
It is not that I think 1 have been vindicated, but I am concerned. 
I hasten on to a few other issues in this great matter. I am concerned about the effect on the industry. If the wool industry goes to the wall, forget about decentralisation in this country because the most decentralised industry in Australia today is the wool industry. If one travelled through the whole of western Queensland and western New South Wales one would find centre after centre after centre which today are debilitated because the wool industry has been stricken. Until such time as the wool industry is put back on a viable basis and is given strength, character and encouragement, that will be the case. 
On 15th November, the 'Sydney Morning Herald' by way of editorial observation - and I hope that nobody will accuse me of rebuking that great paper - spoke of the urban sprawl. In effect, the editorial said: 'It is about rime that something was done about the urban sprawl'. A week later, on 22nd November, the same paper spoke about 'lightening the burden' on the taxpayer with respect to the wool industry. This goes to the nub of the problem. The taxpayers - those who live in the electorate of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who is taking such a passionate interest in what is going on- 
Mir Wentworth - I am. 
These people, the honourable gentleman's electors, will not be content to tolerate this state of affairs. They cannot be blamed. The 2 propositions taken together surely do argue the case for the need for a more, rational and more realistic approach to the wool industry. 
The next point I refer to - of course I must do so very swiftly - is the matter of rural reconstruction. In my own State of Queensland - I remind the honourable member for Dawson of this - there has been something of an obsession for the last 20 or 30 years, particularly on the Labor side of politics, about slicing up every large sheep property. 
Turning them into desert and into small living areas - 
Closer settlement, if I may say so, is one of the fetishes of the Labor Party. It is desperately ill suited to this country. Let me say what I have seen with respect to large properties. Take, for example- 
Please, hear me out. What does one see if one moves from Ilfracombe to Isisford, a distance of 60 miles or 70 miles? Years ago there were 3 properties that spanned that area. They were Wellshot Portland Downs and Isis Downs. They were great properties and they insisted on quality. Portland Downs shore over 100.000 sheep. Today it is cut up ito small living areas. When these small areas strike drought they cannot stand it but the large properties could because they moved stock around. 1 think that the Federal Government should use to the maximum the power that is in section 96 of the Constitution, that is the power dealing with grants, to say that there is to be rural reconstruction there must be a completely revolutionary approach to the problems of restoring some of these large properties so that there is the prospect of maintaining pastoral activity in difficult times. I regret to say that these difficult times have continued in Queensland for many years. The view is that the large properties can be cut up into small areas, and if there is a good season it is all very fine, but when a bad season comes it is a different matter. There have been 13 consecutive droughts in the centra] west of Queensland year after year after year. People cannot take it. The country cannot take it. The industry cannot take it. As a consequence thousands of people have left the area. 
Finally, I want to refer to the point made, by the honourable member for Dawson, f think towards the end of his speech, in relation to blending wool with synthetics. For many years, regrettably, there has been what I would describe as a false sense of aristocracy by many of those associated with the wool industry about blending with synthetics. This year's report of the Australian Wool Board is couched - I say this not offensively - in terms of extreme condescension in dealing with the volume of the Woolblend market. This refers to the mixing of wool with synthetics. It is to take place in autumn of 1972. Tt is big news, is it not? This should have been done some 20 years ago. I have said what T wanted to say. I have indicated, I hope to the satisfaction of my friends on the other side and on this side of the House, that I appreciate the significance of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I excuse myself from supporting it on 2 grounds. Firstly I accept the good faith of the Government regarding [he committee appointed under the chairmanship of  Sir Richard  Randall and, secondly, in my view, until that report is made available by  Sir Richard  I do not think the amendment goes far enough. But as one who has given I suppose the best years of his life to supporting the doctrine of free enterprise, I may say that there does come a time when, in the words of Burke, that which is not practicable is spurious. As far as 1 am concerned the wool industry today can no longer survive and will no longer survive if it persists in believing that it can be anchored to views and attitudes which may have had some relevance 30 or 40 years ago but which today are no longer valid. 
The strictures of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  against the Government in a general sense I reject. But I want to say to the Government, and in particular to the Minister for Nations Development  (Mr Swartz),  that I entertain a deep sense of dismay and concern with the delay that has attended this measure. It is perfectly true, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, that this is a matter entitled to exceptional regard. I would like to tell the House why I believe that to be the case. Time is running very much against the Government on this issue and very much against this country. In 1973, pursuant to 2 resolutions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, there will be convened in Geneva a new conference on the law of the sea. At the last count there were 109 nations in the world with a coastline, 109 littoral nations. I feel acutely embarrassed that Australia is the only one which has not settled the question of sovereignty with respect to the territorial sea and with respect to the continental shelf. 
There are 11 variants of what is the territorial sea. They range from 3 miles offshore to 200 miles. Historically the member nations of the Commonwealth of Nations have accepted 3 miles but now it is long odds on that at the conference in 1973 the territorial sea, in terms of international law, as distinct from municipal law - that is to say local law - will be laid down definitively at 12 miles. The effect of that throughout the world is going to be of the utmost consequence, and I will tell the House why. No fewer than 116 straits today are high seas. In other words ships, be they warships or any other types of ships, can transit them with all the freedom conferred by their seas. This country does a considerable volume of trade with Asian countries. There are 2 archipelagic nations, Indonesia and the Philippines, in the Asian area and many problems will attend ships using the straits between the islands of those countries. In respect to Queensland there is an acute problem. There is at the moment a speckled jurisdication and I defy any fisherman to say with certainty what waters he is in - Queensland waters so-called, international waters or the waters with respect to which this Parliament claims that it has responsibility. 
What is the position of the States and the Commonwealth of Australia? Already one has seen evidence - and this is to be judged by the views expressed by State Crown law officers presented to the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources - claiming that the right to pass legislation with respect to the peace, good order and government of a State gives the State the right to the continental shelf. For myself 1 say that this is an absurdity. Australia has the largest continental shelf in the world. It is unbroken with respect to Australia, qua Australia's and New Guinea. In 1969 when the International Court of Justice gave its decision in the North Sea continental shelf case it laid down a rule, and this is part of the rationale of the decision, which I would have thought every person in this country who is interested in this matter would have viewed with very considerable alarm, lt was that the equidistant principle with respect to 2 nations fronting each other where there is an unbroken continental shelf is not a principle of customary international Jaw. 
Let us consider the position of an independent New Guinea in 5 or 15 years time with an unbroken continental shelf stretching between Australia and New Guinea. Who will argue on behalf of Queensland, when Queensland has no international personality, if New Guinea says: 'We are not going to .subscribe lo any form of international arrangement that places upon us the obligation lo respect and adhere to the equidistant principle'? That principle is enshrined in the present law of the sea - the code of the last Geneva Convention. 
This is one other significant problem. But how is Australia, in conscience name, to plead its position, to seek concessions and to maintain attitudes if in respect of its own sovereignty it has not made clear where sovereignty lies? 
I do not know what has happened to the Liberal tradition. I always thought that it was based firmly upon the principle that in order to determine the value, the acceptance or the truth of any proposition, it was argued. Prior to 1961 the Australian States had the power to deal with legitimation. In the Marriage Act of 1962, I think il was. there were 2 provisions - sections 89 and 90  -  relating to legitimation. I did not hear any person then cry out: 'Here is centralism. You are taking something from the States ! What happened? The Victorian Attorney-General sought to have certain declarations made, the Commonwealth Government demurred and argument ensued. If honourable members read the judgment of the then Chief Justice,  Sir Owen  Dixon, they will find that his opening words were: This has been brought to settle rights and to determine henceforth as to where these matters lie.' There is no doubt that there is argument as to where sovereignty lies. I believe it l:es with the Commonwealth. This has its origin in 1876 when a German ship, the 'Franconia'. within 3 miles of the port of Dover collided with an English steamer, the 'Strathclvde'. and  the  German captain. named Keyn, was indicted for manslaughter. Fourteen judges of the Court of Crown Cases Reserve sat to hear whether or not there was jurisdiction. One judge died before the judgment was handed down but the majority of the 13 held that the realm of England finished at the low water mark. 
Keyn's case is not a binding authority on Australia but anyone who is game enough to argue that the States have sovereignty has a substantial obstacle in his path. Why not settle this matter once and for all? Young commanders and lieutenantcommanders are asked to go out on patrol boats and they have thrust upon them the responsibility of deciding whether or not a vessel is in Australian waters. May 1 give an illustration of the dilemma that can arise with respect to this problem? In 1962 a British trawler, rejoicing in the name, picturesquely enough, of the 'Red 
Crusader', was alleged to have been within Danish territorial waters. The captain of the 'Red Crusader' was a man of wit named Wood. A Danish patrol boat, the Niels Ebbesen', gave the signal to halt to the 'Red Crusader'. Skipper Wood took no notice of it. The Danish patrol boat opened fire at the radar signal. The 'Red Crusader' stopped and the Danish patrol boat put a boarding party on board. Skipper Wood, to show his wit, locked the boarding party up and proceeded to sail off towards a home port.' This rather dumbfounded the Danes on board the Niels Ebbesen'. A British destroyer, the 'Troubridge', came into sight and came between the 2 vessels. This matter went to arbitration after there had been most angry notes exchanged between the two countries. One of the main matters for argument was whether or not the 'Red Crusader' was, in fact, within Danish waters. 
In the matter we are considering there is a territorial strip of water, high seas, and this speckled jurisdiction throughout the length and breadth of Australia. I do not know why there is this reluctance to determine this matter. Of course this side of the House has passed through what I would describe as the minor contretempts of March or April of this year. However, we can survive and we will survive through this outburst of trouble. But this is a matter that should be referred. Within the space of the next 10 or 15 years there will probably be more submersibles operating underneath the water than there are submarines held in charge by the nations of the world. Today more than 1,000 cor.portations and companies throughout the world are building various devices associated with the exploitation of the sea bed. The world is now being thrust onto a completely new frontier. The mineral potential of the Pacific Ocean alone is quite extraordinary. To illustrate this fact, it has been estimated that there is sufficient nickel in the Pacific Ocean to meet world requirements for 150,000 years. Lest that means nothing I point out that at the present rate of use the nickel potential on land is of the order of 100 years. 
May I remind the House what happened in 1970? The Navigation Act was amended as it related to pollution. If honourable members examine the definition of coastal 
Australian waters in that Act they will see that it takes in from the low water mark outwards. I sat here while that legislation passed through this House and I laughed my head off - I know not sufficiently thoroughly enough for some people. But there is was. I did not hear any honourable member say: 'You are assuming sovereignty with respect to the territorial sea. You are taking something away from the States.' I heard nothing at all from the holy Joes - the State righters. This is a matter that must be settled. I even heard some State Minister say that if the Commonwealth had sovereignty with respect to the territorial sea and the continental shelf it would be able to control lifesavers and bikinis. Really and truly, one would not think that any person would have such a quaint approach to such a significant problem. 
I understand from my friend, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that the final report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources will be brought down tomorrow. I believe that it is with the Government Printer now. I further believe that the Government has some view that once that report is received it will proceed with it. But I ask my honourable friend whether he will do me the favour - I do not ask many favours of many people in this world - of nodding his head to indicate that the Government will proceed with this matter as soon as possible. I put it to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that in order to carry his motion he must have the support of an absolute majority of members of this House. I do not know whether I can cajole, threaten, persuade, encourage, lead or mislead 5 or 6 members to cross the floor of the House to vote with him. That move is not on the board, but I want my friend, the Minister tor National Development, to give an undertaking that this matter will be proceeded with because it will probably take the whole of next year for it to be litigated, to be argued and for the judgments to be handed down. 
I do not know why it is that the Government has persisted in being so inactive in this matter. I think there is considerable virtue in having the issue settled. Why should people be uncertain with respect to this great issue? I hope that my honourable friend finds it convenient to put himself in a position where he can give a broad indication that my suggestion is agreeable to him. If that be the case I will be prepared to sit in my seat when the motion is put. 
I want to make one or two very short observations. I start by taking up the last comments of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  about this Parliament having been offended. I would seek to remind my honourable friend and the person who moved this motion that this is the national Parliament; it is not a borough council. I have had  16  years here. The House knows me and it knows my weaknesses, perhaps better than I know them myself. But never in 16 years have I asked any person to withdraw anything said about me. When dealing with a national parliament we are not dealing with some curio; we are dealing with an institution that has a character and a quality about it. I think that the beginning - -fons et origo, if my distinguished friend the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  will forgive this lapse into Latin- 
I am delighted to hear it. When this matter was referred to the Committee of Privileges I thought it was a disgraceful reference.. I have said elsewhere - I hope that those who have heard it said elsewhere will forgive me if I say it again - that if any pf us who come in here have an overweening anxiety about our own feelings it is high time we got out. This remark goes also for the Parliament. I draw parliamentary privilege in a very narrow aspect. I have sat on Privileges rom.mittees. I sat on the Privileges Committee when the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was grievously offended and the Committee brought in its finding. But every time a person writes about the Parliament, about the Leader of the Opposition, about the Minister for National Development, about the Minister for Defence or about such unsuspecting souls as myself - the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has just collapsed with excitement - is it seriously suggested that we should say: 'Look, I feel upset; 1 feel as though my privilege has been invaded'? 
The western democratic parliamentary institution has not been built on such shallow grounds and it will not survive on such shallow grounds. I know my friends over there. Many of us have confided in each other over the years. We disagree, but so be it; it adds nothing to the gaiety of our existence. I simply voice the expression, and I hope that honourable members will respect me for it, that we should not draw too narrowly. Because a person outside complains about the Parliament we should not get up and complain about him. This is the greatest forum in the nation, bar none. I do not know of any other. If honourable members can come in here and command respect their message can go into every home throughout the country. What finer forum do they seek to com mand than that? Because some person may seek to place his distemper upon you, because he may seek to impeach you, does one seek to put him upon the cross? I think this is wrong. That is the general principle. 1 have been insulted but I hope that I have not displayed my reaction too vividly. When people have said something about me 1 have taken the view that they will. keep. I have written it inside my little black book' - 'Gough upset me, 18th March 1971; right honourable member for Lowe upset mc same day'. I hope the House will understand the way I fed about the matter. 
I am really upset about the matter when I look at the Committee's report. The Committee cannot operate unless it has a quorum, lt had a quorum and it took a vote. It found  Mr Reid  not guilty. I repeat the words 'not guilty'. Forgive me for emphasising that. I have a very distinguished friend,  Mr Dan  Casey of counsel, a member of the Queensland Bar. He is probably one of the few counsel in the English speaking world who has been involved in hundreds of murder trials. On one occasion, when cross-examining a character, he said: 'That is not the evidence you gave below'. The inspector of police replied: 'No, but there is only one word different,  Mr Casey'. Mr Casey  said: Yes, but there is only one word of difference between guilty and not guilty'. I ask honourable members to look at this report. The Committee, meeting as a properly constituted quorum, found  Mr Reid  not guilty. 
There it is, my friend. One is not at liberty to take the view that some members of the Committee were present and some were not. Those members who were present heard the evidence. The responsibility fell upon them. The moment that Committee gave its decision, that was the end of the matter. To put it in Latin - I do not know much Latin - it was functus officio; that was the end of it. I looked at the report and found that the matter was recommitted. I was reminded of a jury which met in Cloncurry, which is in the heart of the electorate represented by my distinguished friend from Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  A man was charged with cattle stealing. Out there that is not an offence really: it is a sort of provincial sport. The jury went out. It came back and the judge's associate asked: 'Gentlemen of the jury, have you reached your verdict?* Yes', the foreman replied. 'Do you find the accused guilty or nol guilty of the charge of cattle stealing*, the associate asked. The foreman of the jury said: 'Not guilty, provided he hands the cattle back*. The judge hit the roof and said: 'You cannot possibly bring in a verdict like that. Go out'. The jury went out, much to their bewilderment, and after having a cigarette came back. The same question was asked: ls the accused guilty or nor guilty of the charge of stealing cattle?' The Foreman said; 'Not Guilty and he need not hand the cattle back'. Those who have served on the Privileges Committee have had a difficult time. They, have been exposed to a variety of pressures. 
You can call them pressures one way or the other. 1 hold no brief for  Sir Frank  Packer - I was going to call him  Sir Spank  Fracker. I try to speak with a measure of frankness or candor, to enter into a safer form of consonantal pronunciation. I think it is a' great pity if the Parliament, the national Parliament, at 12.25 a.m. on 9th December, as we are gathering for the Christmas rush, is occupying itself with this tizzy little affair. I want to say quite bluntly that I do not know from where the impeachment will come, one side or the other, but I am firmly committed against voting for any proposition that seeks to condemn a person for having made any insult, any slight upon this Parliament. I come back to where I began. This is the Parliament, the national Parliament of Australia. It is not the Borough Council of Cumberland. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did a member of the American Embassy approach an official of his Department this year requesting that the Australian Government provide instructors to train Cambodian servicemen in South Vietnam. If so: 
What evidence is available to indicate that the person making the request acted with the authority of the American Ambassador. 
How was the request made. 
On what date was the request made. 
What position in the American Embassy did the person making the request hold. 
Have any discussions been held with the American Ambassador concerning the request by 
Australian Ministers 
Austraiian officials. 
If Australian Ministers and officials have held discussions with the American Ambassador concerning the request when were the discussions held and by whom. 
Has the Cambodian Government made  a  request to the Australian Government to provide instructors to train Cambodian servicemen in South Vietnam if so, how and when was the request made. 
Has the Australian Government requested permission from the Government of South Vietnam to train Cambodian  servicemen in South  Vietnam. If so, when was the request made. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts upon notice: 
Can he say what statutes are in force concerning (a) environmental control and (b) pollution in each State and Territory. 
Cun he also say what proceedings have been taken with respect to infringements of statutory provisions concerning environmental control and pollution in each State and Territory in the last 3 years 
One of the paradoxes about this place is that it so rarely examines the basis upon which it exists. This is one of those rare occasions that I can recall when the Parliament has ever directed itself to a consideration of the principles that occupy it in its operation. I think the House and the country should be indebted to a most elegant speech which came from the lips of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  A most important principle involved in this debate is: What processes are you going to observe in the making of law? That is the issue. Let me say to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that 1 will give him all the assurances in the world that I will in no way reflect upon  Mr Johnston,  until such time as he is convicted, nothing should be said which in any way could prejudice him. That is my view. When a man stands in the dock this carries with it no presumption of guilt. The whole of the forces of the Crown are there and those forces can be used, but meanwhile the man is innocent. But that is not the issue today. The issue in this debate is whether or not Parliament will determine what should be the law or whether it will be caprice and a sense of wilfulness of the individual. 
I will come to the matter of conscience later on if the honourable member for Capricornia will contain himself. The words which are involved and central to this issue are these words used by the Leader of the Opposition: 'Well, draft dodging is not a crime.' This Parliament passed through both Houses legislation providing for national service training, and imposed penalties in relation thereto. It is a matter of public notoriety that there was heavy division in this Parliament and heavy division outside, but the authorities of the Parliament said that the legislation shall be passed and it was passed, and the law, while it still stands there, is to be obeyed. 
What is the sanction which rests upon the Government? The sanction is the electorate. If the electorate takes the view that that law is wrong, the electorate will impose its sanction, but until such time as that is done the law is there to be obeyed. To some honourable gentlemen what I am about to say may seem irrelevant. One of the most compassionate men in the whole of the English speaking world was Edmund Burke. He said: 'I know of no means whereby you can present an indictment against a whole people.' The whole of the philosophy of Burke and the whole of his life were given over to trying to destroy the arbitrament of force in the conduct of human affairs. I ask honourable members to reflect upon that statement: 'I know of no means whereby you can present an indictment against a whole people.' It goes to the very fountainhead upon which parliamentary democracy either nourishes or founders, because if a government seeks to legislate not in keeping with the views of the electorate the electors will impose their sanction. Time has not changed. The Leader of the Opposition said the other day: Well, draft dodging is not a crime'. It is of no avail for him to resort to semantic argument as to whether it is a crime in the sense of a crime against the person or whether it is a form of public mischief. This seems to me, with great respect to the honourable gentleman, to be unreal. This is what the Parliament has decided. 
Surely the honourable gentleman will recall the great historic speech of one who walked in the tradition of the Labor Parly in the United Kindgom. I refer to the law  Mr Gaitskell.  When his own Party did something to him in relation to British disarmament he thundered: 'I will flight, I will fight and I will flight again to have this corrected.' This is what the honourable gentleman and all of my friends over there can do. You can fight and fight and fight again to have this erased from the statute book. You would be entitled to do it if that was your conviction and that was the depth of your conscience. - If you are right and we are wrong, the ultimate sanction imposed upon us is to go over there into opposition. This is the whole basis upon which this place works. If you are to substitute a sense of wilfulness for the authority of Parliament, if you are to say: 'I do not want to evade this law because I am opposed to if, you invite the people of this country to walk down the road to tyranny. Honourable members opposite may laugh at this but I warn them that it does not take very long to walk down there but it takes a long, long struggle to get back. 
A lot of people have taken the view that it is not humbug; let me assure the honourable gentleman of that. If you destroy the authorities of this Parliament and impose your own sense of wilfulness in its place, you say that no longer are the processes of introducing legislation worthwhile. This is the issue that is involved in this great debate. I ask the honourable gentlemen opposite: What if at some time in the future your Party is in government and introduces legislation in relation to, say, drugs? I do not wish to be offensive or personal. What if your Party introduces legislation in relation to abortion, upon which people are entitled to hold strong views? What if people say: 'No, we do not propose to take notice of this'? Where is the end? Am I obliged to believe - substituting other words for 'draft dodging'that tax dodging is not a crime, or that drug trafficking is not a crime? Where do you stop with this? That is the question that the Leader of the Opposition must ask himself and that is the question that the Australian people must ask themselves. 
Let me come to what I regard as a most unfortunate lapse on the part of the Leader of the Opposition. I refer to his reflections - that is the only way they can be described - upon the Commonwealth Commissioner of Police. What he has said here today is that the Commonwealth Commissioner of Police has gone out of his way to attend to those matters which may happen to interest him or motivate him politically. I would hope that the honourable member- 
I appeal to the honourable gentleman. If he looks in the cold at what he had to say. that is the only possible inference to be drawn. I am left with the impression that he does appreciate the sense of discomforture in which he has placed himself on this occasion. I have never known him to be so ill at ease in replying to any issue as I saw him this morning. The speech of the honourable member for Berowra tested him. I regret that the Leader of the Opposition failed. I think it must be said of him that he is an interesting physical phenomenon. He is the only man I know of whom it can be said that his Achilles heel is in his mouth. 
My question, which I address to the Prime Minister, concerns the timing of the holding of an election for the Senate in relation to the holding of an election for the House of Representatives. I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Government acknowledge that the present absence of coincidence in the holding of elections for the 2 Houses of Parliament is both vexing and expensive? If so, could the Government prepare a White Paper pointing to the difficulties and to the possibilities of resolving the position so that the objective of holding elections for the 2 Houses together would be met? 
It is no discourtesy to my friend the. honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  if I do not deal immediately with some of the more picturesque arguments he has sought to press upon us. During the time available to me I will deal with a number of arguments adverted to by the honourable gentleman, but I would like to say something first about the general principles of conciliation and arbitration. The. Bill itself is plainly a committee Bill. It does not lend itself to a second-reading debate for, indeed, one could spend 20 minutes dealing with, say, the question of amalgamation, or another 20 minutes dealing with whether or not there should be more or fewer lawyers in the Commission. I will have something to say later on about the extraordinary cult of anti-legalism which seems to be sweeping through the corridors of power. It is extraordinary when those who seem to have it in for the lawyers, in the. long run depend on legal advice to rescue them. But I shall come to that later. 
This, I think, is the 52nd or 53rd time on which the Conciliation and Arbitration Act has been amended. We are getting towards the century mark. I think the mere statement of that fact argues that there is something radically wrong with the entire structure of arbitration and conciliation in this country. It is quite true, that we have differing views on arbitration, and we are entitled to have them. We have differing attitudes towards what system should be created. However, conceded that that is the case, why is it that governments year after year since 1904 have come back and have altered or amended the whole mechanism of arbitration in this country? 
The Commonwealth's power with respect to arbitration is, in my vie.w, a limitation. It is worse than that, indeed: I think it is an embarrassment. It can be seen from a reading of the Commonwealth convention debates in the 1890s, when the representatives of the colonies, as they were then, argued as to the power to be given to the Commonwealth with respect to arbitration and conciliation, that save for a few percipient minds, the majority of them were convinced that Australia as a nation was made up of 6 economies. This is quite clear from a reading of those debates. It seems to me that there was a compromise in terms of giving to the Commonwealth Parliament powers to deal with conciliation and arbitration. Section 51 (xxxv) of the Constitution provides: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: . . . Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. 
The extraordinary thing about those words is that they have led to more litigation in the High Court than any other section in the Constitution, including section 92. Surely a nation is entitled to have a clear fount head of power on national matters. If I apprehend the spirit and mood abroad in Australia today, I come to one conclusion, and it is this: Australia is searching for its own national character and its own national identity. I believe this is the view of the younger generation of Australians today. The ties for better or worse with the United Kingdom, and indeed with the United States, in the quite, near future will have weakened. I do not say they will have disappeared, but certainly they will have weakened, and we can go back to looking at the entire system under which we work in this country. 
If the honourable gentleman will restrain his enthusiasm, I will come to it. Do not be impatient. I try to contrive in my own peculiar way to show patience to all manner of men. I am told by some of the critics that I fail on occasions, but we are still all entitled to have our little weakesses, are we not? By referendum all shades of politics and all political parties have sought to alter this power to give it a new sense of proportion. They have all failed. I believe that one would be right in saying that the referendum procedure at present offers very little scope to alter this power. Indeed, in 1935 or 1936 every political party in Australia joined together to support an amendment to the Constitution with respect to civil aviation. I would have thought myself that with the backing of every political party and on a non-contentious issue such as civil aviation the power would have been granted but the move failed. This is the frustration. How is it to be met? If we take the assumption, which I invite the House to take, that this section places distinct limitations upon the national Parliament, and if we want to alter it, how do we go about it? The prospect of getting a reference from the States would seem to me to be not in the field of practical politics. I would like to make this suggestion: I believe that a commission, perhaps a royal commission, of the highest possible competence, spread right across the board, representative of employer organisations, the trade union movement and all interests should be established to examine the whole structure of conciliation and arbitration in Australia. 
1 am indebted to the honourable gentleman for reminding me of it. What would be the virtue of that? I submit that the virtue would be this: It could possibly act as a means whereby more information would be fed throughout the community and, as a consequence, there would be a greater measure of understanding of the difficulties associated with this section. People say: 'This smacks of centralism'. That is nonsense. In 1972, with the whole machinery of industry becoming more complicated, difficult and sophisticated, we cannot afford the luxury of having an inadequate power such as the one we have here. I invite the Minister and the Government to consider this process of trying to inform the Australian community as to the difficulties associated with legislating under this power. The Commonwealth Law Reports are literally studded with decisions relating to section 51 placitum (xxxv.) of the Constitution. It is propped up by the incidental power. Many of the powers now in the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Act depend for their existence upon the incidental power. Some people say: 'You have had it for 70 years. Just go along with it.' I do not think that the mood of this country is inclined in that direction at all. 
I would like, if I may, very briefly to cite the opinion of a man for whom I have the greatest admiration and affection, the late  Sir John  Latham. People may have disagreed with his politics, but to me he was a very fine and wonderful Australian. He was experienced in this Parliament. Honourable gentleman may recall that between 1926 and 1929 he went through the great upheavals associated with arbitration and conciliation and the Marine Industries Act. which led undoubtedly to the defeat of  Mr Bruce  as Prime Minister in that day.  Sir John  Latham had a great understanding of the workings of the Constitution, and he had a very deep understanding of what made people think, tick and behave. After his retirement from the chief justiceship of the High Court of Australia, writing in the 'Sydney Law Review' in 1 953, he had this to say: 
There is reluctance in many quarters to approve any increase of Federal power over industrial matters. Many are afraid of a parliament where a political party could in effect buy votes  by  raising wages, but there are many parliaments which have this power. There is the risk that a popularity hunting parham nt might, do great damage in the industrial sphere, but any parliament may do great damage  w  many spheres by actions which it would be possible to take. If the parliament went too far in raising wages or in reducing wages it could subsequently correct what it thought was an error, and in any event it would have full responsibility to the people for what it did or failed to do. The prospect of an election is a great steadying influence. 
Those of us who practise in the field of politics would unhesitatingly agree with the sentiment in the last sentence, I am sure. Coming to the Bill, I believe that one could distil the major areas of concern referred to by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory the bifurcation of the conciliatory and arbitral functions, sanctions, penal provisions and amalgamations. I can but deal with these in a very discursive fashion. Let me first take the breaking away of the conciliatory functions from the arbitral functions. 1 Listened to my honourable friend from Hindmarsh last night. I thought he was in an extraordinary agreeable mood. For him, he was the very essence of tranquility. I was puzzled by his mood. I do not know whether he was sedated by what he detected as the sense or whiff of victory. That may be the explanation. Then I heard him this morning say how dreadful it was to alter the Act so as to distinguish between conciliatory functions and arbitral functions. My mind went back over the years to 1956 when we had a great debate on this Act. The honourble gentleman from Hindmarsh, no doubt in those days with the fresh expectancy of youth hanging over him, burst forward, and what did he say? The then Leader of the Opposition, the late  Dr Evatt,  moved a long amendment to the Bill amending the Arbitration Act in 1956, and not far behind him was my friend, the honourable member for Hindmarsh. What did he support in the amendment in 1956? I am sorry to do this to him, but I know that he enjoys it. This was one of the amendments proposed by the honourable gentleman's leader and supported by the honourable member for Hindmarsh: 
The making of special provisions strengthening the processes of conciliation including the appointment of additional conciliators charged exclusively with the functions of mediation. 
It is always different. I fall back on that ploy myself. I say that it is different too. You cannot teach an old dog like rae. I mention that amendment, because to me the whole basis of a sensible approach to getting peace in industry lies in conciliation. If we use these great penal powers wantonly and discriminatingly they are no longer dignified as powers; they become burdens. Men do not cheerfully put up with burdens indefinitely. We find, if we go through the Act, great powers of discretion given to conciliators, arbitrators, commissioners and so on. If those powers are abused we get a reaction to it. We find that this is the case everywhere. There is no short answer to getting industrial peace. We get it where there is a sense of responsibility on both sides. Honourable members will draw from me nothing by way of condemnation of every time workers in a factory go out on strike because in many instances they have good grounds for going out. 
I am not preaching any heresy. I have seen people who have been needled by foremen with no understanding of what the people think, their emotions and so forth and the people have said: 'We are not going to put up with this'. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh last night spoke about communication on both sides. I could not agree with him more. Years ago I worked in a very large factory which employed over 600 men. 
I started off sweeping the floor and if I had the honourable member's brains I would still be back there doing that. In that factory the management, in my view, was quite enlightened. Every fortnight every person in the factory, not in the employees' time but in the management's time, was brought together and all were told what was going on throughout the company. The manager walked into the factory. He knew hundreds of the men and women by their Christian names. They were all treated with the same measure of courtesy and civility. If they had any problems at all they knew that they could go and see him. What was the result of this? One had a factory superbly run, with high morale and with very, very little display of industrial trouble. This state of affairs comes by dint of having a management which is enlightened. Precisely the same must come from the other side. 
Productivity, unfortunately, is a long word and its meaning is difficult to convey. But if all parties realise that they have a stake in the community and a right to seek to get proper rewards or recompense :or whatever they do, then I think to that extent we will have industrial peace and some measure of sanity in the conduct of our affairs. 
I would next like to refer to sanctions. We cannot have a system- even the Australian Labor Party has its own system of sanctions- 
Well, the honourable gentleman will recall the occasion on which  Mr Cyril  Chambers, one of his South Aus tralian colleagues, had some rugged views to express about one of his leaders. The sanction was imposed upon him. But the important thing is to ensure that the sanctions are used not capriciously but sensibly. When the honourable member for Hindmarsh spoke last night about the scores of thousands of breaches of awards, I found myself in complete and utter agreement with him. If there is a breach of an award, that is dishonesty and a penalty should be imposed. If a person persists in breaching an award to the extent of the dishonesty there should be that penalty. 
My time has almost run out, and the last thing to which I wish to refer is amalgamations. I would invite my honourable friend from the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  to place before the Committee and the Minister any suggestion which he may have to speed up the processes of amalgamation. I do not speak for the Minister but I think I would be at liberty to say this: The honourable member will not find him unresponsive if he can make some suggestions for improving the system and facilitating the means whereby expression can be given to the wishes of those unions which want to amalgamate. I think that the Minister will respond. I conclude approximately where I began by saying that I hope that not through timidity will we draw back by trying to bring to the country a clearer understanding of the difficulties under which the nation's Parliament legislates with respect to conciliation and arbitration. 
 Clause 5 provides for the division in statutory form between the arbitral function and the conciliatory function of a Commission, and some of my friends opposite are disturbed about this. I want to put this short argument to them: If 2 parties in a state of hostility to each other go before a conciliation commissioner, knowing that, although at that stage the process is one of conciliation, that individual ultimately can exercise an arbitral function, my instinct is that they will say: 'We cannot be as frank as we would like to be with this person'. 
This is my belief. I am proud to recall the memory of a man who sat in this House for many years. I refer to the late  Mr Percy  Clarey. He spoke in 1956 about the role of a conciliator. I have taken his words from Hansard, and I recall vividly what he said on that occasion. I would like to read it out to the Committee. He said: 
As one who has had a great deal of experience in industrial disputes, I suggest to the House that a good conciliator is precious beyond price. 
 Hear me out. This is not a matter of controversy between us. He went on: 
Responsible and important though the functions of an arbitrator may be, to me the successful conciliator in industry has much greater responsibilities and can accomplish a great deal more good. 
There is not one syllable in that with which I find myself in disagreement. I say to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and to the Committee that if a dispute gets beyond the stage of conciliation it is at that stage that we face our difficulty. I have seen tempers frayed in industry. I have seen men who take the view that no matter what may be said of them, no matter what threats may be made against them, they will stand firm. They have taken up a position of obduracy and obstinacy. Difficulty is experienced in persuading them to refrain from taking up that position. The task of industry is to avoid men and parties getting into that state of obstinacy. On the other side, I have seen employers who say: 'I will shut the gate and in no circumstances will I have so and so back'. That is the situation to be avoided, because that is when we set fire to the emotions of people who are involved in a dispute, and it takes all the skills of a good conciliator to resolve the situation. This is where I believe there is very considerable virtue in having conciliators who say: 'I am prepared to try to sort out your problems. I have no arbitral functions. If you leave me, you go beyond me to another person who will arbitrate'. 
I have cited the late  Mr Percy  Clarey. I have the utmost respect for him. He was a very gentle man. He held strong views. He expressed them with great clarity and great conviction, I disagree with a lot of them. I can recall on one occasion that, acting in his role as the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, he went before a Commissioner Mooney. Commissioner Mooney was sitting at that stage in an arbitral capacity. It is a matter of public record that  Mr Percy  Clarey pleaded to the Commissioner saying: 'Please, will you act in the role of a conciliator?' Commissioner Mooney said: 'No. It has got beyond that stage'.  Mr Clarey  was intervening, seeking to get a solution to a problem. I am convinced that if we can get good conciliators, people who understand and have that sweep of imagination, that sense of compassion, to understand points of view on both sides and can try to encourage the meeting of the ways, we will nip in the bud a lot of industrial problems that should never get to the arbitral stage. That is why I am convinced there is considerable merit in saying to people: 'Look,  Mr X,  you stand as a conciliator and we wish you well. You have no arbitral functions.' I am a little surprised that some of my friends opposite have been persuaded to disagree with that. I can only hope that on reflection they will see there is considerable merit in it. At least I would invite them to give it a go. It may fail but I would like to think that it will not. I believe that if conciliators can go into factories - into various areas of difficulty - where there are disputes and at that stage can bring about an agreement there will be less rancour and considerably more agreement in Australian industry. 
My honourable friend from Hindmarsh takes a great risk in prophesying whether he will agree or disagree with me, but, of course, that rests with him. I would be grateful if the Minister would inform me on the point I wish to raise. Clause 7 seeks to alter section 6 of the Act and provides that there shall be 'such number of  Deputy  Presidents as are necessary from time to time'. What I want to ask the Minister is what he has in mind. It seems to me that whether we are to have 9  deputy  presidents or 90 there must be, to use language which has been used in other places recently, a reason in all manner of things. This applies to whether one is dealing with  deputy  presidents or artesian bore drains. There must be a reason in it. 
Will the Minister let me know how many he has in mind? The present section of the Act provides for a president, not less than 2 deputy presidents, a senior commissioner and not less than 5 commissioners. This gives a total of 9. Section 6(1.) (a) provides for a minimum of 9. Would my honourable friend give an indication to the Committee whether it is proposed to increase the number? I would assume that it is, if we are to have conciliators distinct from arbitrators. However, I am wondering what the Minister has in mind. I would like to know whether he is going to increase the number considerably. This is of some concern to the Committee. I believe it is in the public interest that we should know. 
I do not want to discomfort my friend from Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  but I find myself in agreement with him. I would agree with him on 2 counts. Firstly, there is scope for non-lawyers to be presidential members of the Commission. Secondly and more importantly, proposed sub-section (1a.) (c) of section 7, to which he referred, is incredibly vague. It is quite possible for a Commission in the future to be constituted of George Moore, Tommy Smith and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Paragraph (c) refers to a person who is considered by the Governor-General to have substantial relevance to the duties of a  deputy president  in some other field. I could not be encouraged, with what meagre measure of partisanship is in my makeup, to say that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has not had considerable experience in the industrial field. I act as a courier between the honourable gentleman and a very great friend of mine,  Mr Edgar  Williams of the Australian Workers Union. I bring messages down; I take messages back. I am bound to say that a fair sense of modesty - not extrapolated from 'The Little Red Schoolbook' - inhibits me from saying what the messages are, but I think that honourable members will all understand. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh would be well experienced in the industrial field - no person could reasonably disagree with that - and so would George Moore and Tommy Smith, both of whom I count amongst my friends, although I am bound to say that I do not always follow them with the success to which I am entitled. But they are experienced in their particular field. Honourable members like my friend from Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  want to poke fun at lawyers. They want to burn us at the stake. I would be the first to agree that just because a man has a wig on his head it does not mean to say that he has any brains. At times when I listen to some people in this place I am left with the distinct impression that there are others out gathering faggots to burn us all at the stake. I do not want to threaten anybody, but I tell you that you would need to cart a lot of cords of wood in order to get rid of me. But take the honourable member for Berowra, Thomas Eyre Forrest Hughes, one of  Her  Majesty's silks, learned in the law. He is known to his friends as Phoenix. He will make his comeback most assuredly. We are dealing with one of the most incredibly complicated statutes on the statute book and there is preference to say: 'Well, we do not want lawyers'. 
Just one moment, please. I want to read this, and I will give a prize to the honourable member who can identify the person who used this language in this Parliament. So that gives honourable members a clue. He said: 
As a matter of pure theory I see no reason why non-lawyers should not be appointed to exercise conciliation or arbitration functions. Everything depends upon the man. But there is one aspect of the matter that cannot be ignored, and this qualifies the pure theory of it. Lawyers by the whole of th;ir training and experience become experts at the quick study and appreciation, of new facts and problems. After all, that is their business - everybody in almost every court. Facts of science, industry, transport and so on are investigated by lawyers both on the bench and at the bar table. All things being equal, therefore, a lawyer will grasp salient facts more quickly than a non-lawyer. 
The honourable member is right. Congratulations! Come along, I will give you the prize. The same distinguished gentleman said this: 
Laymen's legalisms are infinitely more terrifying than those of lawyers - terrifying for themselves in the result and  in  the long run. 
If I may I would like to cite the view of  Dr Evatt  on this same point. They were both lawyers but nevertheless with substantially different political convictions. In 1947  Dr Evatt  said: 
I do not under-estimate the contribution 'hat judicial tribunals have made  and will  always make to the development of our civilisation. It  is  wrong to under-estimate the  value  of  our  legal training and outlook, not only  in those fields which belong  to the domains  of  strict jurisprudence but also  on  those persons who may  be  charged  with  the public duty of securing and maintaining the terms and conditions of employment. 
The honourable gentleman went on to say: 
The system of industrial regulation cannot be properly administered without impartiality, disinterestedness and a strong sense of justice and these qualities- 
This is the qualification which he made) -  should be and usually are developed by  a legal  training and judicial habits.  But it is  a profound mistake to think that these qualities  and  especially the judicial temper can be exhibited only in courts of law or in the application of ordinary legal techniques and procedures. 
What the honourable member for Hindmarsh said about sub-clause (c) is, in my respectful view, completely correct. It is a very vague clause indeed. I do not want to put it offensively either to my side of politics or to the honourable gentleman's side of politics, but it could well be that one could have friends at court and one could use this section to say: 'What am I going to do with Joe', who could finish up as a presidential member on the basis that he had some substantial training. I do not think that this will serve this country in the best traditions of arbitration and conciliation. It is a power which any government could resort to. I only hope that it will be a power resorted to with impeccable care and with a great sense of judgment. 
The Minister has persuaded me that my reading of clause 8 (1a.)(c) may in great measure have been in error, but I am not entirely convinced. I am wondering whether the Minister will undertake to tidy up or at least to make a little clearer the drafting of paragraph (c) before this Bill reaches the Senate. If the Minister is correct - and there seems to me to be considerable substance in the argument which the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has pressed upon us - then this clause proposes to enable us to get away from having lawyers as presidential members. If the Government is to make that decision - I say it should do so with some measure of reluctance - I think it must be prepared to concede that there are many people who would be thoroughly qualified to sit as presidential members but who would not necessarily be the holders of a university degree. 
I have said before in this place that the mere fact that a person has been through university does not convince me as to his quality either as a man or to the quality of his cerebral processes. I can recall one man who had very little formal education but who could quote Shakespeare literally by the page. He had a very great understanding of men. I can envisage many trade union officials, many of whom I know and count amongst my friends - I act for them professionally and they are people who have come up the hard way, after serving about 40 years in their positions - who in my view would qualify, but they do not hold a university degree. It would seem to me that if the Government is prepared to make the change and say 'Well, we want presidential members other than lawyers', it must be prepared to concede that there are people available who would be qualified in terms of broad industrial experience or, if you like, broad managerial experience. There are a lot of managers I know who did not go to a university but who have come up, as it were, right through the ranks. 1 ask the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  whether he will undertake to give to the Committee a guarantee - that is probably pressing it a little high; whether he would assure us - that the Government will look at the drafting of sub-clause (1a.) (c) to see whether it is, as the honourable member for Cunningham has said, drawn in this fashion so that only those with a university degree will be appointed. I am substantially convinced that this may well be the case, but if I am wrong I think it would be a pity to deny to the Commission the experienced people simply because they do not hold a university degree. 
 I have already indicated to the Minister that I would welcome an assurance from him that he will give consideration to amending part of this clause, if not here then at least in the Senate, to provide in sub-section (2) of proposed section 17 that a Full Bench of the Commission shall include at least 2 presidential members, one of whom at least shall be a person qualified under section 7(1. a) (a) of this Act. As the Bill stands it would be possible to constitute a full bench of the Commission consisting of 3 presidential members who have the qualifications listed in proposed sub-section (l.a) (c) of section 7. I do not want to commit the Minister, having discussed the matter with him and his officers. Perhaps he will indicate that he will have a look at it. I think it raises significant problems, particularly when it comes to dealing with the complexity of many aspects of the Bill. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  taunted Government members about the provisions of clause 12. I. ask the honourable gentleman what he considers would be a fair thing for the Commissioners to be paid. The statutory responsibility for determining this falls upon the Parliament, for better or for worse, I do not know of any occasion, or at least I cannot recall one, when emoluments of officers in this category have been adjusted without there being some protest. It is al) very fine to say that our sense of egalitarianism is such that we will bring everybody down. I listened to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  interjecting. Would my honourable friend as a medical practitioner think he was well served if his skills, studies, energies and efforts were now to be rewarded on the basis of what he described as the minimum wage? Certainly the honourable member's egalitarianism would not run to that. I agree with my honourable friend the Minister when he says that one must try to find some bench mark on this. If one says to people: 'Come out of your particular job. come out of the trade union movement' as has been said to some of the conciliators and so forth, what are you going to pay them? This is the difficulty. It is not easy to determine. 
I recall the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill introduced last year. That Bill raised a lot of anxiety, a lot of heat and a lot of hostility, but ' at least this House passed it;1 Why cannot we at least try to make some effort to be consistent in matters of this kind? It is very easy to say Well, the wage has gone up $2 a week, ergo all our salaries should go up by a similar amount'. I would invite all my friends oh the opposite side of the House to say that parliamentary salaries should go up by $2 a week. I think it would take a lot of force to bring honourable members opposite around to agreeing with that proposition. This is the difficulty. I can understand the tradesman's resentment. He looks at this and says to himself: 'I just do not understand it. Why is it that this salary increase is being made?'  We  look around the various States and we compare our own circumstances with the salaries of members of State parliaments and frankly I must tell the House with all. the candour at my command that I think we are in an outrageous position. The honourable member for Prospect continues his attempts to. interject. I say to him that I would be quite happy to go back and work in a fell.mongery where I would be constantly, reminded of the honourable member. It would draw no complaint from me, I can assure you. If the honourable member had done something like that and got some corns on his hands he would -be better off for it. He has not many on his brains, either. When it comes to courtesy I can assure the honourable member of one thing: He is very light on. What I put to the Committee is this: Honourable members opposite may say that it is wrong to pay these people this amount but what is their alternative? What would the honourable member for Burke suggest? Would he say $9,500, $8,000 or $10,000  -  any increase on that? This is the difficulty, and we have to try to make a judgment having regard to the responsibilities of the men who occupy these positions. I just want to say this and I will try to say it without any heat at all: The charge made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Burke that this is seeking to pressurise the Commission is one of the most offensive comments I have heard in this Parliament. 
 I note the point made by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  but I recapitulate the statement I made on Thursday evening. I think that if there were 2 parties to a dispute before a man who was both conciliator and arbitrator, there would be the risk of the parties holding back and refraining fom giving all their information to the man who wore the 2 hats. On the other hand, if he sat there as a conciliator simpliciter - nothing else - exercising no arbitral functions, I think there would be a complete revelation of all their difficulties. 
As I pointed out to the House on Thursday evening, this was part of the amendment that the late  Dr Evatt  moved to the Bill in 1956 which amended the Act in those days. 
This is where the matter ultimately is referred to the arbitrator. 
We will examine the particular words in question when we come to that proposed new section. There have been many matters which have been adjudicated where the presiding officer, be he a judge or magistrate, has said: 'Gentlemen, could you adjourn to my chambers?' There they sit round and have a chat about the particular problem. If they failed to reach agreement in his chambers, they would return to court. There would be no suggestion of using in open court or commission anything which had been heard in quite privileged circumstances. 
I hope i have convinced my honourable friend that 1 believe strongly in conciliation. I think that the emphasis in ail industrial activity should be placed upon conciliation and that the resort to arbitral functions should be attempted or resorted to only when things are grim. I regret that my honourable friends opposite do not agree, but I am persuaded that where 2 parties sit before a conciliator who enjoys the complete confidence of both parties and where they know that the conciliator is going out of his way to do his level best to ensure that there will be a meeting of the ways, one will see conciliation operate in a completely untrammelled sense. I believe that where he has imposed upon him the functions of an arbitrator, people will say: 'I wonder whether we should tell all'. That is the fear I have about this matter and it is the only further observation I have on the particular proposed new section. 
 The charge which the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  makes is not well founded. I can understand the annoyance in the case of a person who is asked by a conciliation commissioner to attend a compulsory conference and it is not convenient for the person to attend. But I put it to the honourable member that there must be a reason in all things. If you accept the principle of having compulsory conferences and giving to a conciliation commissioner the power to call a compulsory conference, surely we must give the commissioner the right to say: 'I want such and such an organisation here or the representative who has been intimately concerned with this matter and I want  Mr So-and-so  who is the  president  or the secretary of a particular union.' It has not been my experience that a person would go before such a conference, sit there and be dumb. If that did happen it would be my view that reason itself had been deserted because after all, when 2 parties are in conflict and they want the matter settled it would seem to me to represent the high water mark of insolence and indeed uselessness for an individual to go along to a compulsory conference and sit there like a month old blancmange. I put it to the honourable member for Prospect that there is the assertion of reason. 
I am wondering on this point whether I might invite the Minister to have a look at one aspect of this proposed new section, not necessarily in this chamber but perhaps in the Senate. Perhaps there could be added to paragraph (5.) of proposed new section 27 these words: 'Where a prosecution is launched under this section it shall be a defence to the prosecution if the person is not available on reasonable grounds.' I could think of a variety of factors. Let us assume that the person was in another court when the conciliation commissioner said 'I want him here'. Let us assume that the man was ill. Some people may say that a conciliation commissioner would not call the man in those circumstances. I am looking at the proposed wording of the statute. I do not think the Bill would suffer in any shape or form if some omnibus provision dealing with a situation of this kind were included in the legislation to this effect 'It shall be a defence to a prosecution under this section where the person requested to attend or required by the conciliation commissioner is not reasonably available.' 

 Mr LYNCH (Flinders- Minister for Labour and National Service! '&lt;i 13) - I would be happy to have a look at the point which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has put forward. 1 am confident that the matters to which the honourable member has made reference would be taken into account by a court in imposing this penalty. If one looks back at the history of this provision - and I have already mentioned this to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  - it will be seen that it is not a new provision, lt has been in the Act for many years and 1 know of no cases in which it has been necessary to invoke this penalty. 
 That is good news. 
1 appreciate the views which the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has put to the Committee. I excuse myself from agreeing with the honourable gentleman. I respect his views, but the views he has put and the views which I put, 1 suppose, would indicate the philosophical differences which exist between the honourable gentleman and myself as far as the apparatus of arbitration is concerned. Might I take the last sentiments expressed by the honourable gentleman when he was referring to the agreement made between the Waterside Workers Federation and the shipping companies. That is a collective agreement made outside the Commission. I doubt whether there is one honourable member who would deny that there would be literally hundreds of thousands of people immediately affected by that agreement. 
That is the view of the shipowners. There is great virtue  -  I hope I have always tried to show it both here and elsewhere - in listening to the other man's argument, no matter how much von may disagree with it. I am not in any way rebuking the honourable member for Sturt, but I am taking the case now of 2 people who say: 'We are in agreement. Therefore the matter is settled, and other people who may be affected by it have no right to be heard'. There are hundreds of thousands of people with no opportunity of access to arbitral or wage fixing tribunals, yet in a very real sense they are affected. One only has to mention the hundreds of thousands of pensioners; one only has to mention the shopkeepers, those who run their own businesses, and so forth. They are all affected. Let me take the case  .if  the Waterside Workers Federation and the shipping companies. As a consequence of the agreement between these 2 parties freight rates, in my judgment, will ultimately be increased. Who will pay for mat increase? The whole community will pay for it. I think this matter comes back to the sentiment expressed by the metaphysical poet Donne when he said: 'No man is an island entire unto himself. This is perfectly true. 
Just control yourself. The honourable member can give me the benefit of his views when I sit down. No matter what we may do in this Parliament, it will affect many hundreds of thousands of people outside, even though they are not immediately concerned. I have given the illustration of the agreement between the Waterside Workers Federation and the shipping companies. What I say is that in the whole of the apparatus and the procedures of arbitration today it is no longer possible to say: 'Here there are 2 parties and no other party is involved'. The community in its corporate sense is involved, and somehow or other the body making the decision must listen to a view which comes before that body on behalf of the corporate community. 1 come to the point posed by the honourable gentleman for Hindmarsh in relation to proposed new section 28 dealing with public interest. I would agree with the honourable gentleman that this proposed new section and also perhaps proposed new section 31 are 2 of the most difficult proposed new sections in the entire BillTrie very term 'public interest', of course, is an elusive term. We have both subjective and objective forces to be impressed upon it in order to determine what is public interest. I suppose if we were to be asked today to express in a hundred words what is public interest in relation to a particular issue we would get 100 varying, quite different responses. 
I am afraid that I cannot deal in the fields to which the honourable gentleman is so tantalisingly attracted. I want to deal with public interest. Quite a number of cases have been gathered and are referred to in a very fine text book, which of course we all know, by Mills and Sorrell on federal industrial laws. It contains a whole collection of reports on cases in which the various arbitral bodies have decided whether or not public interest has been involved and whether or not it has been affected. My concern with the clause dealing with public interest, frankly, is that it is left to the conciliation and arbitration commissioner to decide whether or not an agreement is in the public interest. The conciliation commissioner is a layman. To the lawyer the term 'public interest' is a little more definitive than it is to the layman. I know that this may seem a rather strange proposition to put, but that is the case. May I cite very quickly the views given in the celebrated Nordenfelt case of 1894. It is good sense, as the Committee will see in a moment. In this case Lord Watson said of public interest: 
The course of policy pursued by  a  country  in  relation to, and for promoting the interests of its commerce must, as time advances and as its commerce thrives, undergo change and development from various causes, which are altogether independent from the action of its Court. In England, at least, it is beyond the jurisdiction of her Tribunals to mould and stereotype national policy. Their function when a case like the present is brought before them is, in my opinion, not necessarily to accept what was held to have been the rule of policy a hundred and fifty years ago, but to ascertain what is the rule of policy for the then present time. 
I am saying in 1972 that if a conciliation commissioner is called upon to determine public interest in 1975 he will be called upon to determine something, to find something, which may be completely and utterly different. Another collection of cases has been prepared by a very distinguished New South Wales judge, the late Chief Justice Jordan. In re Jacob Morris deceased he deals with public policy, a term that is interchangeable with 'public interest'. He said: 
Public policy is not, however, fixed and stable. From generation to generation ideas change as to what is necessary or injurious, so that 'public policy is a variable thing. It must fluctuate with the circumstances of time'. . . . New heads of public policy come into being, and old heads undergo modification. Thus, in the early part of the nineteenth century, prevalent social doctrine favoured a minimum of government interference in economic relations and a maximum of freedom of contract. In the course of a century the pendulum has swung the other way, and there has been an increasing tendency to regard it as necessary in the public interest to protect the weak against the strong, and even against themselves. 
This brings me to the central argument I put on this clause: To find the public interest is the difficulty before the conciliation commissioner. In relation to proposed section 31, I will press upon the Committee argument to show that in many circumstances it would be possible for the parties to a dispute and the conciliation commissioner to deal with public interest and, for that matter, not to be referable to the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission. The point made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, that the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth can in all cases intervene when public interest is involved, is in my view not well founded. If the matter has not been referred to the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission the AttorneyGeneral cannot intervene. But it would be quite possible for a conciliation commissioner to have dealt with a matter that did involve the public interest but the parties agreed, there was no reference of the matter to the Full Bench and, as a consequence, it went unheeded. 
For example, let me take the case cited in Mills and Sorrell dealing with the substitution of a 7-day shift system in the glass industry for a 6-day system. The conditions under which such substitution should be permitted are of sufficient public interest to justify an appeal. I would respectfully agree with that but I could not put that decision under any one of the heads to be found in proposed section 31 of the Act. There the public interest would be involved, yet there we have an illustration of the fact that the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission could not in any way interfere with the adjudication that had been made. In the Committee debate on proposed section 31 I will deal with it and elaborate on what 1 have said. 
No. 
I do not want to upset the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  but I am bound to say that the only thing upon which I can congratulate him is the fact that he has alerted the Committee to the knowledge that this is 1972. Apart from that there was very little else that the honourable gentleman said that seemed to me to be in point. Since this Committee started to debate what I have described as a very technical and difficult measure I have sought to press upon the Committee one fact and that is that in consideration of the term 'public interest' we are dealing with one of the most elusive terms known to the law. 
 I am delighted to have the honourable gentleman's confirmation that he agrees with me but, having got it, I am bewildered as to why he has been so reluctant to agree with me openly. Public interest is not something which is susceptible to definition by way of political slogan. There is no shibboleth available to describe public interest. What I have tried to impress upon the Committee though regrettably, I admit, with some measure of failure on both sides, is that public interest is not something that lends itself to definition. That is why I have sought - I would hope with a tolerable measure of self effacement - to contend that it is the lawyer who at least has the discipline of training to reach out, grasp and say what are the elements today that make up public interest. 
I can recall 8 years ago when the Trade Practices Act, or what passed for a Trade Practices Act, went through this Parliament. It referred to public interest and whenever there was some suggestion of an infringement of public interest some honourable members, the 'hands up' boys, were all in favour of protecting it. On that occasion I argued that public interest rests for its determination upon the body before which it is placed for adjudication. Here we are placed in what I have described as an intolerable situation. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  is a man of immense goodwill and great indulgence in listening to argument on this point. Under proposed new section 28 there will be a layman, a conciliation commissioner, making the decision on what is public interest. 
I say to the honourable member for Swan that public interest in terms of the layman's approach can vary infinitely but in terms of the lawyer's approach lends itself to the finding of some measure of agreement. This is the difference. I will not argue the matter any further but 1 want to say to the honourable member for Sturt, not with any sense of remorse or condemnation - I hope I did not put the dichotomy falsely this afternoon - .that this is the matter which divides us. The honourable member for 
Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  - I must give him a commercial on these matters - took me back to the corn laws when dealing with this subject. I was not arguing this but I was arguing that there is a corporate responsibility in the community which must be acknowledged, heeded and taken into account whenever any decisions are made. I press the matter no further. I am much on the honourable member's side in saying that whenever there is an opportunity for people's wages and salaries to be increased in terms of the community's capacity to pay he will hear no complaint from me. 
I come now to this point of public interest to which I wish to direct the Minister's attention in particular. Under proposed new section 28 if the conciliation commissioner takes the view that the public interest is involved, he says: 'I will refer this matter to the full bench.' It is a question of characterisation. If on the other hand the conciliation commissioner says: The consent order with which I am dealing does not involve public interest', when in fact it does, who can take it before the full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? The Minister in his speech in December last year said: 
The Government intends to provide that  a  full bench of the Commission must review  a  conciliated award or order it the Commonwealth refers an award or order on the issue of public interest. 
I have heard the honourable member for Hindmarsh say repeatedly: "The AttorneyGeneral on behalf of the Commonwealth can intervene before the full bench'. This simply is not true. The Attorney-General, as I read section 36 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and its proposed amendments, can intervene only when the matter is before the full bench. He cannot intervene otherwise. The only way in which the full bench of the Commission can deal with any matter is spelled out in proposed new section 31 of the Act. 1 ask the Minister: What if 2 parties agree to a consent award - take the case I cited this afternoon of the glass workers award - and both parties agree under whatever the circumstances may have been and the conciliation commissioners - and this is no reflection upon those who serve or will serve in that capacity - take the view that the public interest is not involved when in fact it is? The honourable member for Burke may say: 'My understanding is that the public interest is involved. How does the Government get it before the full bench?' In my view the Attorney-General can intervene only if the matter is before the full bench. I do not know whether that is a gap in the legislation. I do not take the slightest exception to hard argument. I have heard it whispered around the corridors by way of dull rumour that I indulge in it occasionally myself. If this is a deliberate decision by the Government to say: 'We have abandoned the view that the the full Commission should have control over all matters', so be it. I will not sit down and sob for a week; I have other things in mind. What I suggest to the Minister is that he can take these steps. The conciliation commissioner may make an award under section 28 and gives a certificate. I am sorry to spell it out with such staccato; perhaps  might be granted a brief extension of time if I run out. The Commissioner certifies that he believes that the public interest is in no way involved, so the matter does not come before the Full Bench. Indeed, the Full Bench may never hear of it. The power under section 36 (1.) to intervene is available only when the matter is before the Full Bench. If the commissioner failed to refer or the Full Bench failed to apprehend and seize jurisdiction, the matter could go by without further action. 
I suggest to the Minister that there should be in proposed section 35 a provision to this effect. The Full Bench shall have power to determine that a matter dealt with under section 28 of this Act is a matter exercisable by a Full Bench and not otherwise. I am sorry to have laboured the matter before the Committee, but I believe that this is a gap. Public interest is a matter which should be controllable in its broad sense by the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission. 
We are all in our various ways cast into strange roles on occasions but the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  this evening is surely ill cast; not merely ill cast, but strangely cast. The strictures which the honourable gentleman has delivered against my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government in its corporate state regarding sanctions- 
Impliedly, you did. Even the dullest amongst us - I would be well to the forefront in the honourable member's opinion - would agree with the view that the Minister was included. We could forget, who would try to forget, who would dare to forget the splendid occasion when the honourable member for Hindmarsh suggested that the one swift, sure, certain way in our miserable existence by which to cure all industrial unrest and disturbance was to fine every striking unionist $20 a day. I have a great deal of sympathy with my honourable friend. He pressed what seemed to me to be a desperately curious argument on that occasion. I went back to Brisbane and spoke to a trade union leader. I have told the Committee and the House that I enjoy - I hope command - the friendship and the acquaintance of many trade union leaders. I have said that I act for them professionally. I am delighted to count them amongst my friends. On this occasion I spoke to one whom, with a measure of utter uncertainty, I would hesitate to describe as being a close confidant of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I am speaking now of  Mr Edgar  Williams of the Australian Workers Union. I have had a long association with the AWU, not merely sweeping the floor of a factory, let me assure the honourable member for Hindmarsh, but sweeping the board in a shearing shed, and indeed on some occasion bathing in the luxuriant waters of the Condamine.I said to  Mr Williams  - I am sure that  Mr Williams  would not regard this as being any infringement of personal conversation - 'What do you think about all this?' He said to me with what Kipling would have described as being a webbed and inward turning eye, when I mentioned the honourable member for Hindmarsh- 
No. On the contrary, he would pick you out in the dark. He said: Jimmy, go and have a look at the "Worker" of 29th November 1971'. 1 said: 'Edgar, what do you think I will find there?' He said: 'Oh, you will find something that is quite interesting'. I went and got the 'Worker'. I am bound to tell the honourable gentleman - I hope it does not embarrass the 'Worker', the AWU, those who produce the 'Worker' of those who send it out - that I get it each week under certified mail. 
No. On the contrary, 1 subscribe to it each week and, if I may say so, I am glad to subscribe to it, even on occasions to read some mildly derogatory things about myself. In this issue he referred to the splendid arrangement of the honourable member for Hindmarsh when he said: Twenty dollars a day, boys, if you are out on strike under the directions of the shop steward'. I try to be temperate in my views. 
I try to be charitable, too, and I am indebted to the honourable member for Wakefield for reminding me of what is one of my major deficiencies. I also try to be broad-minded, but when I read what was said of the honourable member for Hindmarsh I was embarrassed. Let me inform the Committee of what was said. I am bound to do this, because I cannot imagine the honourable member for Hindmarsh sitting up at night panting with excitement, reading the 'Worker'. I want to quote what was said regarding sanctions.  Mr Williams  described an Australian Council of Trades Unions meeting in very robust terms. I am a great admirer of  Mr Williams.  He knows how to speak and you know where you stand with him, literally on everything. He said this: 
At that meeting it was made clear by myself that it would be ludicrous on the one hand to advocate the removal of penalties from the Act and on the other hand agree to such or similar penalties being entered into by private agreement. 
Who said that there should be penalties? The honourable member for Hindmarsh did. He said that a $20 penalty should be imposed. Who described it as ludicrous? One of the most distinguished members of the Labor movement in Australia, a person who has an association with the Labor movement stretching back over 40 or 50 years. I do not want to embarrass my friend,  Mr Edgar  Williams, but he went on to say this: 
And if any union did this without the consent of their members they deserve to run into the chastisement that certain prominent politicians are running into today. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Hindmarsh ran into any chastisement on the matter. There are occasions when a few of us take the view that it would be a pity he did not run into a brick wall. I mention that not by way of indulging in any political acrimony, because 
I withdraw from that, as the Committee knows; but I am just trying to point out to the honourable member for Hindmarsh that when it comes to the crunch, when he is placed in the position of assuming a measure of responsibility he is bound to acknowledge the fact that no matter what the merits of the law may be, in order to support it and defend it against infringement and destruction, he must be prepared to have a system of sanctions. I think it was in my speech on the second reading that I pressed upon the House that 1 acknowledged readily the fact that people resile from having a system of punishments. 1 also contended that whenever we have a system of punishments, whenever we have powers which are misused, men will ultimately say: 'These are no longer to be dignified as powers. These are burdens and we will not be prepared to shoulder them.' That is why I say to the Government unblushingly - and that is why, if I may, say to those who are called upon to administer this legislation: 'You cannot abuse it, because the very moment that you abuse it you bring into being the prospect of its own destruction'. 
May I remind the honourable member for Hindmarsh of what a Labor Government did in 1947 to the then Arbitration Court. It brought that Arbitration Court into existence as a court of superior record. For what purpose? To issue injunctions on any union official who appeared before it and treated with contempt its injunctions. What was the penalty? May I remind the honourable gentleman that memory is a rather imperfect vehicle. Happily, the records are not. On 12th March 1947 in this House the right honourable member for Barton, the late  Dr Evatt,  said: 
The Bill retains all the methods provided for in the existing Act for securing the acceptance and the observance of awards. One extreme view, presented by a section only of employers, was that all the penalty clauses which were repealed by the Scullin Government in 1930 should now be restored. This view we have rejected, lt was not put forward by all employers, but by a section of them. Equally we have rejected suggestions that all existing disciplinary powers of the court itself should be eliminated. The existing provisions relating to the deregistration of organisations, the secret ballot under court orders, the cancellation and suspension of awards and the enforcement of sanctions inserted in awards are therefore retained. 
Does the honourable member for Hindmarsh rise in this Committee tonight and say that the late  Dr Evatt  was ill informed in 1947 when he said in simple, straightforward language: You cannot have a system of law unless you are prepared to have the sanctions behind it to defend it and, if need be, to enforce it? 
I would like to think that the Government will be encouraged to abandon clause 50 and not to proceed with it in this Committee. If the Minister will give an indication that the Government will, have another look at the implications of this clause, I will not continue with my observations. But, in the absence of that undertaking, I indicate that I would speak in opposition to the proposal and I certainly would vote against it. Now, as I understand the Minister, he has indicated that he is prepared to listen to fresh argument that I may advance to him outside the Committee - in other words, clause 50 would not be passed by this Committee- and that it would go- 
It is all very fine for the Minister for the Navy withasense of unctuousness to say 'Oh!' I am talking of matters that deal with fundamental Liberal principles. There is no gathering on the front bench of this Parliament - none - which will persuade me. to abandon the stand that I take- none at all. I will not be persuaded by any person who takes the view that this Committee should lightly embark on support for a fundamentally new principle. The Minister for Labour and National Service is in charge of this Bill. Happily, the Minister for the Navy is not. If the Minister for the Navy wants to move a censure motion here or anywhere else, I hope he can muster the quality of courage to do so. If the Minister for Labour and National Service will indicate to me that this provision- 
I am talking about clause 50 which requires every organisation to register with the Registrar where it does its banking. If the Minister for Labour and National Service were to say that he was prepared to listen to fresh submissions and argument on the matter, I would not continue. However, if the honourable gentleman were to say that we must have the argument out here and now, I would offer no complaint about that and I would continue with my views on the subject. 
To me, this invites argument and I hope that the invitation will be accepted by every person, irrespective of his views on politics. In my view, this is the most extraordinary proposal I have ever seen in a statute. Yesterday, in the chambers of one of the most distinguished lawyers in this country,  Mr Dan  Casey, I pulled from the shelf at random a statute volume of the Queensland Parliament and I opened it at random. It dealt with the Rabbit Act Amendment Act and the penalty provided for was $200. Is it seriously to be suggested that, every time a penalty is provided for in an Act, those who may possibly infringe it should indicate where they do their banking? I will have no bar of this. I issue no threats. I am not like some wilful individuals whom I see around me who, irrespective of the issue, will walk across and say: 'I will defeat a government'. I will indicate my views in this Committee and in this Parliament on the merits and I will defend my views in the Parliament and in the country. This to me is one of the most reprehensible proposals I have ever seen. I do not know who was the genius who thought of it. I only hope that he does not get a C.B.E. for it. If the Minister would say to me that he would have another look at the clause, that would be the end of it. 
I want to illustrate very quickly to the Minister and to the Committee how easily this could be defeated. If individuals or organisations - an organisation is a trade union, an employers organisation such as the Metal Trades Industry Association Qf Australia or anything else - do not put before the Registrar where they bank, they are exposed to a penalty. I do not complain about that. But what are the provisions of the Bill? It provides that a 'financial institution' means: 
a bask; or 
any person carrying on ' business in the course of which - 
he receives money lent to him by way of deposit for a term or to the credit of a current account; or 
he provides safe deposits. 
I will give the Minister for Labour and National Service one quick illustration as to how this could be circumvented by a person who would still be within the law. He could nominate a person to be a trustee and that would be the end of it. A trustee is not a financial institution. A trustee is not a bank. A trustee is not one who receives money lent to him by way of deposit. A trustee is not one who provides safe deposits. That is the answer to the provision in one simple practical explanation. The second one is this: Assume there is a dispute and union X is opposed by organisation A and the matter is before the court. It is obvious that there will be a row, so the  president  of the union says: AH right, here is a cheque, go over and clean out the bank account. Here is a biscuit tin. Put the money in that tin and bury it near the pawpaw tree in my back yard.' Suddenly he is before the court after the court has issued an order garnisheeing the bank account or some order of attachment. When asked where the money is, he refuses to answer. This is precisely the case in which  Mr O'Shea  was involved. I am not canvassing that; I am talking of practical politics. I look back upon the Federal platform of the Liberal Party, which is something which I have had to do with in contra-distinction to some of the Johnnycomelatelys in this place. Section 92 refers to democratic control of their own organisation by unionists, assisted where appropriate by secret ballots and supervised where necessary by the industrial court. If any person tells me, with their cerebral processes normal, that this legislation gives democratic control of their own organisation by unionists, then I will be prepared to argue the point. 
I turn now to 'Broad Highways', a Liberal Party publication put out some years ago. The  chairman  of the Party research group was the Rt  Hon  William McMahon. I do not want to embarrass him or the Committee, but I served on that Committee too. We came to this conclusion on the platform dealing with industrial matters: 
The platform clearly sets out the industrial principles that should shape Liberal thinking- high wages, industrial organisation, conciliation and arbitration, profit sharing, the progressive increase of leisure and living standards, democratic control of unionists of their own affairs. 
I say to the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Manufactures and to every metal trades and employers organisation in Australia that if this proposal had been introduced by a Labor Government there would have been a hue and cry up and down the countryside. 
I will have no part of this, none at all. Even though I stand alone, stand I will. I oppose this proposal. I oppose it here, I oppose it outside, and I will oppose it wherever the suggestion is made for needless intervention and forthe state to say You shall do as we say'. No person, no matter the quality of his divinity, will persuade me to depart from that. 
I wish to make just a few very brief observations. I am puzzled as to why proposed section 158h refers to 'regulations'. I think it is a pity that there is not some measure of definition. I am not aware of any reason why there cannot be some definition as far as this proposed section is concerned. Turning to proposed section 158l, I suggest to the Minister for Labour and National Service that sub-section (2.) of that proposed section should read 'the organisations'; in other words, the plural should be used because it is obvious that 2 organisations are involved in an amalgamation. If the Committee turns back to proposed section 158k it will see that reference is made there to the fact that the Industrial Registrar shall arrange for the conduct in respect of each of the existing organisations concerned. 
Sub-section (2.) of proposed section 158l. I think that is the neatest way of describing it. Sub-section (2.) of proposed section 158l states that the organisation concerned may deliver to the Industrial Registrar a statement in writing of not more than 2,000 words in support of the amalgamation. Both organisations may want to deliver an argument in favour of the amalgamation and similarly there may be members of both organisations who want to deliver, arguments against it. This may be picked up somewhere else. 
As I understand the remarks of the honourable member for Stirling and some of the other arguments relating to amalgamation which I have heard in. advance, there is objection to the proposed new section 158n, which requires that there shall be at least one-half of the members on the roll who shall vote and there shall be one-half of those members who shall be in favour of the amalgamation. I concede that there is substance in this point of view. The fact is that there is no compulsory voting as far as these provisions are concerned. I must confess that I have always taken the view that compulsory voting has its limitations. We have it in Australia but it would rather be a gesture in the nature or character of Don Quixote to imagine we could do anything about it. We have compulsory voting. 
As far as trade union ballots are concerned and as far as these provisions are concerned there is no compulsory balloting and one apprehends that this could well be  a  weakness. What would happen if there were massive disinterest? What would hap pen if there were a union of say 8,000 members of whom 3,000 voted? They may have powerful views on the issue but the other 5,000 people could not care less. I am sure that this is the common expertence of us all in regard to an election of a member to a committee in large bodies, when people simply do not vote. 
This is so. I agree with the honourable , member, and also in respect of race clubs or any of the clubs to which we may belong. I would like to invite the .Minister to consider this matter. 
What is that?' 
 I am sorry, "i do not: move in the .select circles in which my honourable friends move. I am sure that the Committee understands the point that I am making. If massive disinterest is shown by the 2 organisations, what happens if the episode is to be repeated? I- think there should be some provision &gt; whereby an appeal may be made to some body. I am sorry that I do not spell this out with a greater sense of definition to the Minister and to the honourable gentlemen assisting him. I feel that the proposed new section 158n could in certain circumstances be very severe and I think there should be some provision so that if .apathy is shown regard will be had for that fact. Perhaps the Minister would be kind enough, if not in this chamber then elsewhere, to look at the proposed new section ' 158l. I do feel that the word 'organisation' should be in the plural. I feel also that there could be provision for the proposer and the prop*see, those who want to join' and those who are to be joined. There may '.be views on both sides. In other words, there could be 4 points of view, so that in .certain circumstances there could be the occasion for the 4 points of view to be circulated. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. My question concerns the High Court of Australia. Let me, by way of brief preface, observe that it is now a little over 6 weeks since that distinguished Australian,  Sir William  Owen, died. Having regard to the very heavy burden of work which the High Court of Australia carries, can the Prime Minister say when the Government will fill the vacancy caused by the unfortunate death of  Sir William? 
I hope I can correct at least one allegation which the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has made and that is that the fire has gone out on this side of the House. The immediate question before the House is the contingency motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  that before the House proceeds to deal with the Institute of Marine Science Bill we should turn to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. In fact, there are 3 debates before us; there is the one now occupying our attention and there is a vista of 2 to come. Water, somehow or other, seems to consume us immensely in this place. Once, in a moment of charitable aberration, I described the Leader of the Opposition as being the artesian bore of Australian politics. Looking at the performance of Opposition members this evening my mind swept back to the origin, at least of some of us, in St John the Baptist. 
No, I think he missed out on you. I would describe the performance this evening by the Opposition not as being the dance of the 7 veils but rather the speech of the 3 veils. There was my friend the Leader of the Opposition, Salome appealing to Herod, looking for the head of John the Baptist, and he did not even bother to even give me an acknowledgement. I was a bit put out about that. 
I am delighted to hear that. At long last we will be able to take block. I want to deal with the contingency motion. It is notorious, I think, where I stand on this matter. I have written about it here and there. I have written for what I shall describe for the benefit of the listening public as Australia's best informed 
Sunday paper, the Sunday Australian*. Forgive the commercial; it used to be the National Times' but one's affection changes somewhat. The Prime Minister may doubt this but it is a fact that about 3 weeks ago 1 wrote a piece about the law of the sea. That is quite true and I will swear it on a stack of bibles. The Prime Minister can have his Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  deliver bibles to me one by one and I shall swear on them all that 3 weeks ago I wrote an article which appeared only last week. In that article I said that suggestions that my distinguished friend from Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and myself were going to oppose the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill was nonsense. One character, whom I shall cloak in anonymity, said to me this afternoon, 'I do not understand where you stand on this'. I congratulated him and said: 'Why do you say that?' He said: 'You say that you are not going to hold this up. Where do you stand with the contingency motion of the Leader of the Opposition?' This brings me to our muttons. What my friend from Berowra and I were going to do was to seek to amend the contingency motion of the Leader of the Opposition to provide for precisely what is to happen tonight. In other words we were going to say that we would amend the contingency motion to enable the House to proceed with the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill, get it out of the way and then turn to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. 
On the contrary I would hope that we would look to ourselves to ensure that it would be at about 12 o'clock tonight when I hope that the honourable member who interjected will not be in his usual grumpy mood. My friend from Berowra said: 'This is the position. We will amend it.' I congratulate him. He has an incredible sense of resourcefulness. I think it is a pity that the national Parliament is to lose him. Still there it is. 
 His  abilities may well be found in more ethereal circles. What would have happened? I put this to my friends opposite as a matter of brute politics. If the honourable member for 
Berowra,  my  right honourable friend from Higgins and 1 had moved, seconded and supported an amendment to the contingency motion of the Leader of the Opposition to provide that before the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill was discussed the House should proceed with the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill and we had been defeated, what would have happened? There would have been no discussion in this Parliament on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. At least we will turn to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill and get it out of the way. May I. without any sense of obtrusiveness. remind the House that there was a policy speech commitment. My complaint about it is that we have done so little in this field. I will say something about it when we come to the Bill itself. However, we are to deal with the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill, get it out of the way and then turn to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. I hope to make my views plain. 
If 1 were to start correcting what has been said in this place I would be doing nothing else. I do not want to offend my honourable friend in this regard. 
I would do it with typical deference, as I would appear before you. In conclusion what 1 want to say is simply that the House has an opportunity of dealing with the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. Whenever water is mentioned in this place it seems to do something to people. If the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  were to introduce a private member's resolution dealing with, say, the Burdekin Dam- 

 Br Patterson - Or the Condamine. 
The Condamine? Lord only knows I have been lustrated by it many times. I repeat, if the honourable members were to propose a motion concerning the waters nf the Burdekin flowing into the ocean or some measure relative to the River Murray, it is seriously contended that there should be a contingency motion saying that the House cannot deal with such a matter because it deals with the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill? Ludicrousness, even in its most perfect state, should have its own limitations. The last thing I want to say, I want to say without any acrimony. Lord only knows this place knows me. It has known me for too long, according to the critics, with all my manifest imperfections, but I want to say this not by way of complaint but by way, I hope, of typical Killen explanation. A statement was put out this afternoon purporting to record my views and the views of others on what happened at what I would describe euphemistically as 'a meeting of friends and supporters'. I refer to the fourth paragraph of this statement which, to mc, seems to be the mediterranean of it all.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am sorry that fell so flat. The statement said: 
It was generally considered that the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill was not urgent. 
This is a point of view that some of my friends around me here and there take. I do not subscribe to it. 
That may be. The honourable member, at least impliedly, admits that there are some. This is something that surely lends itself to argument and when we come to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill I hope that I may be able to persuade, by hook or by crook, or by hook again, to hang a few people on to the conviction that it is a matter of urgency. Finally, I refer to the last paragraph of the statement that was issued by, bless him, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  well known for the stunning brevity of his answers. It stated:  lt was agreed that after the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill- 
Look, we have reached accommodations in this matter. I am not going to parade what I would describe as the 'trivia of party conflict'. I am interested very much in this country, interested in its problems and interested in its people and I hope to make my views plain on this issue when we come to these 2 Bills - the first one of immense importance to this country, the second possibly of transcendental importance to Australia and to the whole of its relations throughout the world. 
This Bill seeks to assert Commonwealth sovereignty over the territorial sea and the continental shelf. It does nothing else. It is an assertion of sovereignty. 'Sovereignty' is a word which unhappily is susceptible to a great deal of emotional stirrings. From the conception of this legislation, looking back over the last 2 years to all of the instances which have punctuated that period of time up until today, there has been an extraordinary gathering of emotions, stirrings, prejudice and resentment. I must confess that I find this puzzling. All that the Commonwealth, all that the national Parliament, is seeking to do is to assert sovereignty. It goes no further than that. Therefore it seems to me that 2 questions must be answered. The first is: Why seek to assert sovereignty; why is there the need to do that? The second question is: Is there any measure of urgency to assert this sovereignty? 
I turn to the first question. If one could say with certainty that the States did have sovereignty over the territorial sea I could understand the argument of some of my colleagues who say that it is wrong to seek to take this from them. But the simple truth is that no person can say with certainty that the States do in fact have sovereignty over the territorial sea. I am not going to weary the House with any narrative of the history of this great issue. But may I just give point to the contention that I have made. This is not an old issue - old in terms of definition by our courts. When I use the term 'our courts' I have in mind English courts which have made decisions on this issue. Indeed, it was not until the year 1876 that an English court was called upon to determine where the boundary of the realm of England finished. Did it finish at the low water mark or did it go further out to sea? This arose out of the fact that the captain of a German ship, the 'Franconia' ran down another ship within 3 miles of the port of Dover and was charged with manslaughter. The issue before the court was whether the court had jurisdiction to try him for manslaughter. If the incident occurred within the realm of England, plainly it would have jurisdiction to try him. If it was within the historical purview of the Admiralty, again there would be jurisdiction well founded. 
However, the matter went to issue and was heard by 13 judges in the Court of Crown Cases Reserve. They handed down a decision which, in plain language, represents the starting point of this great controversy. The Court held by a majority, albeit narrow, that the realm of England finished at the low water mark and that there was no jurisdiction to try the German captain. The case is known as R v. Keyn and the decision was that the realm of England finished at the low water mark. The point that affects our existence about that decision is this: What was the law in England in 1876 was the law in the 6 Australian colonies in 1876. Australia in its corporate national state did not exist then, and in 1876 the realm of the colonies finished at the low water mark. 
In 1878' the British Parliament passed what was known as the Territorial Waters Jurisdiction Act which, for purposes of jurisdiction alone, moved the boundary 3 miles out into the territorial sea. That Act applied to Australia. It applied to the provinces of Canada in 1878 and it applied also to the 6 Australian colonies at that time. Even though the decision in the Keyn case is not binding on Austraiian courts, in my submission it has and would have powerful persuasive influence upon Australian courts. 
Sitting suspended from 12.43 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension I was dealing with the primary question whether or not the territorial sea was in fact within the limits of the States. I had adverted to the history of the territorial sea so far as our own existence is concerned; I refer there to the Australian and AngloSaxon existence. The 3-mile territorial sea limit had its origin in the writings of the 17th and 18th century jurist Binkershook who argued that 3 miles was as far as the force of arms could be asserted. The limit became known as the cannon shot rule. I have already dealt with the case in the United Kingdom where it was held that the realm of England finished at the low water mark. I had argued that if in fact that were good law and binding in Australia the boundaries of- the States, formerly the colonies, finished at low water mark. 
Those persons who contend that under this Bill the Commonwealth is seeking to take something from the States carry the tremendous responsibility of showing that the territorial sea is in fact within the limits of the States. The matter was not argued at length in the convention debates and there were merely one or two distant references to the issue. Unlike Canada, Australia is unable to ask its High Court to give a decision on this matter. The High Court of Australia cannot deal with a hypothetical question; there must be an issue before the High Court can give a judgment. In passing, I observe that this is a singular limitation and if ever I were in a position to argue a case for altering our Constitution to give to the High Court power to give advisory opinions I should certainly do sp. I have no doubt that that would save a great deal of fuss such as has occurred over this matter. That is the primary question that I argue, whether or not the territorial sea is within the limits of the States. 
I turn now to the second question, whether or not this matter is urgent. I excuse myself completely from agreeing with those who say there is no urgency. I shall advance argument in support of the fact that there is some measure of urgency. 1 have heard nothing to persuade me to accept the view that it is not urgent. I should like to refer to an island situated some 800 to 900 miles off the coast of Mexico and known as Clipperton Island. This island is quite barren and nobody lives there. It is under the sovereignty of France and has quite a large continental shelf. The continental shelf is the geological phenomenon of the land mass continuing out underneath the water. Throughout the world are thousands of islands each with a continental shelf. All of them, no matter how small, have a territorial sea covering the prolongation of their land mass. When the conventions on the law of the sea were drawn up in 1958, the general view was that technological progress in this field would not be rapid and therefore countries which subscribe to the conventions might exploit out to 200 metres of their continental shelf or such further distance as they might find exploitable. 
Today more than 1,000 companies and corporations are associated with the construction of submersibles - submarines - to explore and exploit the resources of the world's oceans. Oceans comprise fivesevenths of the world's surface - fivesevenths, the major portion. The world now stands on the threshold of a completely new frontier, the exploitation of the mineral and food resources of the oceans. At the some time the world faces what I might describe as the new colonialism: Who can command the resources? Will it be the mighty and the strong? Surely it has been the experience of all of us in this Parliament that the bitterness of the 20th century lies in the fact that man has been unable to find an accommodation with his fellow man. Does any person seriously suggest that there is nothing urgent about determining who. is to control and who is to have the use of these resources? Some may ask: Are these resources of any significance? I have extracted some figures relating only to the Pacific Ocean and they give some idea of the enormous mineral resources available from the sea. It is estimated that in the Pacific Ocean there are 17 times 10 to the 11th power tons of minerals. It is said that nodules of minerals form in the Pacific Ocean at a far greate rate than the total world consumption in 1960. It has been estimated that there are approximately 360 billion tons of manganese and approximately 15 billion tons of nickel under the Pacific Ocean. These figures are astounding but I shall not continue with them. 
It is essential to determine, particularly in relation to the continental shelf, who has sovereignty. Surely no person with normal cerebal processes would contend that any other body than the national Parliament should speak for this country? We are one nation and I resent the temptation, the disposition of some who want to harken back to the colonial days. The mood of this country is to establish a national character and identity and surely this is to be determined by the national Parliament. As time is against me I must truncate my speech. Last year when I was Minister for the Navy a Naval legal seminar was held. Officers who serve the Royal Australian Navy in a legal capacity, together with captains of a number of ships were set 2 problems to consider. I ask for leave of the House to have them incorporated in Hansard. 
These problems will give members some idea of the difficult field in which naval officers work. The first problem concerns an Australian patrol boat, HMAS 'Aware' finding a Formosan fishing trawler rejoicing under the name of 'Ping Pong' within  12  miles but more than  3  miles off the coast of Queensland and making  5  knots parallel to the coast. The trawler is visited and the crew is found cutting up fish. The problem poses the question: What should the captain of the patrol boat do? The problem then goes on to analyse whether he should give a warning and so forth. This is the sort of practical problem that is encountered where one has young naval officers dealing with this type of question, not every day of the week but constantly. Some may say that a Formosan fishing vessel found in these circumstances is not very important. 
I recall when the Russian vessel 'Van Gogh' was in the Gulf of Carpentaria people said it should not be there. I can understand that. But it was on the high seas and entitled to be there. One character in Queensland with a rather robust sense of humour suggested that the local police sergeant should open fire on the 'Van Gogh' with a  .303  rifle. This is the sort of problem that is encountered. It has its note of hilarity but it can lead to very ugly incidents. I hope, that honourable gentlemen will look at these problems. I do not say this offensively but I would welcome the response of those who argue that there is no urgency about this situation. I am tempted to say that in some instances probably they would get  3  marks for neat writing. If one makes the assumption that there is a territorial sea of  3  miles belonging to Queensland the Commonwealth purports to legislate out to  12  miles, that is, over the  9  mile belt, the problem then is for those involved in the fishing industry to know at any one time in whose waters they are. This is a practical problem. Take the case of a vessel moving out of the territorial sea alleged to belong to Queensland into Commonwealth waters and a man on board catches a fish. The bow is in Commonwealth waters and the fish is caught from the stern of the boat. Where does the fish come from, Commonwealth or State waters? These are practical problems and those in the fishing industry to whom I have spoken are baffled by them. 
This is particularly the case when we are dealing with Queensland, with hundreds of islands off the coast. State waters, Commonwealth waters and State waters again. This is not good enough for the nation. Whatever difficulties may be involved in determining what money should flow from the exploitation of fishing resources or mineral resources is a matter for another day. All this Bill seeks to do is to determine the question of sovereignty and to settle the matter. At last count there were  135  nations in the world,  109  of them having some coastline of some description. Australia is the only nation which has not made up its mind on this question. I find this offensive and quite needless. I do not know why people get fussed about it. I am not in the habit of disclosing private conversations in public controversy but I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will indulge me to this extent because I think his remark was a classic. He said to me on some occasion when we were discussing it: 'You would almost think the stuff was Scotch whisky', and that is perfectly true. 
The next matter to which I want to move to illustrate what I regard it as the urgency of the problem, is that the Commonwealth has legislated in respect of fishing between the 3-mile and 12-mile limits on the basis that it is the contiguous zone to the territorial sea. I have the gravest doubts whether the legislation is valid because under the conventions to which we are a party the contiguous zone does not refer to fishing. It refers to fiscal, customs and sanitation - I forget what the other one is but I could find it in a moment - but there is no mention of fishing at all. At least  Sir Gerald  Fitzmaurice who for many years was the legal adviser to the British Foreign Office and now is  President  of the International Court of Justice takes the same view. Writing in the 'International and Comparative Law Quarterly' he said: 
Under general international law, and despite certain recent claims and attempts, there is no warrant for the establishment by coastal states of exclusive fishery limits separated from the proper limits of territorial waters, or for the assertion of exclusive fishing rights in areas going beyond these. 
What is the position? Is the Commonwealth legislation valid or not? The conference which is in view will deal with one of the most complex fields of law known to man. The paradox in it all is that for centuries the law of the sea has had a sense of regulation about it. It goes back to the old Rhodian sea law three or four centuries before Christ, the Hanseatic code and the Rules of Oleron and so forth. Today the world is on the threshold of being plunged into immense chaos. Some nations have a 3-mile limit while others have a limit of 5 miles, 6 miles, 9 miles or 12 miles. Some South American countries claim a territorial sea of 200 miles. So this question must be settled. The arbitraments of force cannot be allowed to be the determining factor in this. The question must be settled by reason and that is why I have argued all through this unfortunate and needless debate that reason must be the dominant quality to be displayed. The Commonwealth will have discussions with the States. I welcome these discussions but ultimately the decision must be one for the High Court of Australia. That is why I agreed wilh the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  that there must be some time limit put on the determination of this question. (Extension of rime granted.) If the Commonwealth and States can litigate in a friendly fashion, as was suggested by  Sir Percy  Spender, rather than hissing at each other and litigating at arms length, so be it. But the matter must be decided by the High Court. As a further illustration of what I would describe as the urgency of the case I take the position that Australia has got itself into regarding the Gulf of Carpentaria. Some people - I understand their concern - have suggested that we should shut off by unilateral action the whole of the Gulf of Carpentaria. As the law of the sea now stands in my view that is not possible. That does not mean to say that some time in the future it will not be shown to be practicable. But I am attracted to the view that it is possible for the Commonwealth, by using the existing conventions on the law of the sea, to shut off substantial parts of the Gulf of Carpentaria. For example, I believe that straight base lines could be drawn from the Wellesley Islands eastward to the coast of Queensland. If this is to be done it must be done by the national Parliament. Similarly I believe that on the western side straight lines can be drawn from Cape Wessel down to the  Sir Edward  Pellew group of islands and the area shut off could be for the exclusive fishing rights of Australia. The difficulty in it is that where the States are involved no person knows who has sovereignty with respect to taking and that is why it is urgent in my view to have the matter determined. 
I earnestly press upon the Government the need to establish a law of the sea institute to deal with these problems and to study them because there is nothing settled. It is an incredibly complex field of law. It is  a  great pity that we in Australia have not availed ourselves of  a  very distinguished 
Australian, Professor O'Connell of Adelaide University, with and under whom I have had the pleasure of working. Amongst other things he occupies the Chichele Chair of International Law at Oxford. He is a man of great charm and of immense capacity. He is the sort of person I would have in mind to deal with all of these problems. Unless this nation takes some initiative in the field it will see confusion worse confounded. 
May I give another illustration of the confusion which has occurred? Australia has accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court, pursuant to section 36 of the statute which set up the International Court. But when we signed that, we reserved certain matters. For example, we reserved that we would not accept the compulsory jurisdiction with respect to the continental shelf. We reserved matters dealing with the natural resources of the sea-bed and sub-soil of the continental shelf. We also reserved matters under the Australian Pearl Fisheries Act. But when we signed the conventions dealing with the law of the sea, we accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court for all matters. With respect to the declaration of the International Court lodged in 1953, Japan, for example, has accepted that compulsory jurisdiction of the court, but Japan has not signed the optional protocol to the Geneva Convention. The Japanese, in a literal sense, have us over the barrel. This is something that has just drifted by. We have never settled the matter. 
The difficulty can be apprehended more cogently with respect to New Guinea. Australia has an immense continental shelf. It is quite unbroken between the Australian coast line and New Guinea. What would happen with an independent New Guinea which did not accept, for example, any convention dealing with the law of the sea? The Internationa] Court has held that you cannot use the median line with respect to the continental shelf because it is not a customary rule of international law, but you can invoke H where there is an agreement to do so pursuant to a convention. Is it seriously to be said with respect to an independent nation that the State of Queensland should argue the case? It has no locus standi before a court. It is an exquisite absurdity, and I do not know why we tolerate it. Here is the need to determine who has sovereignty over the continental shelf for the purposes of seeking to protect a right. 
The last illustration that I want to give with respect to this question of urgency is that under the 4 conventions dealing with the law of the sea and under the Bill, the Commonwealth Parliament seeks to assert sovereignty over the territorial sea and the continental shelf. But certain things are excepted from it. Clause 11 of the Bill states: 
The application of this Act does not extend to or in respect of any waters of the sea that are waters of or within any bay, gulf, estuary, river. . . . 
Under the convention dealing with the territorial sea you can rule off a mark in a bay. You can draw a straight base line of 24 miles across a bay and say that all waters within that are internal waters. The American Supreme Court has held that if you approbate the convention for the purposes of dealing with other nations and therefore accept this 24 miles mark you cannot in terms of the components or the elements of the federation reject it. While our High Court would in no way be bound by that, it would have immense persuasion and influence upon it. We would have the extraordinary situation of bays around the Australian coastline being ruled off. Inside the line they would be internal waters, and outside the Commonwealth would have sovereignty. Who would draw the lines? I ask honourable members to think of the immense task involved in drawing the lines. 1 come back to the point: People would inquire whether they were in the State waters or in Commonwealth waters. That is why I believe that this matter should be settled, lt can be settled amicably and should be settled pleasantly. 
In my judgment there is urgency about this matter. This world has been wracked with dissension and great strains. We are now, as I have argued, on the threshhold of being threatened with a new colonialism, and the immense resources of the sea should not go to the strong; they should go to the corporate welfare of humanity. That is why I believe that this Parliament, if it seeks to assert sovereignty and to settle the matter, is contributing to that extent, to the common welfare of mankind. 
I direct to the Minister for Defence a question relating to the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I preface my question by observing that it would appear that '.he Committee's recommendations, if implemented in their present form, could give rise to a number of anomalies. Will the honourable gentleman make it clear to the serving members of the forces that the recommendations made by the Committee do not as yet represent Government policy or the views of this Parliament? Secondly, could the honourable gentleman be encouraged to make a declaration of intention that, if in their final implementation the recommendations of the Committee give rise to anomalies, the burden of those anomalies will fall upon not the contributors but upon the Government and ultimately upon the taxpayers? 
A very serious charge has been made against 2 people. One is the honourable member for 
Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the other is the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  - though it is by way of implication against the Minister. For my part I, and I am sure the House, would exculpate the Minister if we look carefully at the matter. 
I am delighted to hear the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  say that. It devolves, therefore, into a charge against the honourable member for Angas. The honourable member for Angas is under no obligation to put out a statement with an embargo tag on it. He can put out a statement as a private member at any time, giving his views on any issue at all. 
I am not splitting straws. I am talking about a great principle, and if the honourable member will be patient, he might understand it a little better. These are the facts: The honourable member for Angas put out his statement at 5 p.m. this afternoon. True or false? True. That is not in contest, is it? The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  acknowledges that: 5 o'clock this afternoon. At 1.30 this afternoon the report was given on one of the news media - the Australian Broadcasting Commission or one of the wireless stations. This is  3i  hours in advance of it. That is the first one. 
I will read it out in a moment. Three-and-a-half hours in advance the public of Australia heard an announcement which purported to declare that the Government of Australia had taken a decision with regard to wine excise. The honourable member for Angas has told the House that he heard that. The second source of his information on this appeared in a newspaper. I do not share my honourable friend's timidity in naming it, because this is a public document - the Sun'. It is no reflection on that paper, on the proprietor, on the journalist involved or on anybody else. On page 2 the heading was, 'Wine excise halved. The Federal Government has decided to halve the excise of 50c a gallon on wine'. . 
The honourable member is coming to another question. I am dealing now with the honourable member for Angas. I will come later to the other point of how it was leaked. That is an entirely different question. The Opposition's charge is against the honourable member for Angas. This is not put in any speculative fashion. It is put in the positive sense: The Federal Government has decided to halve the excise of 50c a gallon on wine'. That is the second source available to the honourable member for Angas upon which to found a statement. It is a matter of notoriety that the honourable member for Angas has, from the time of the imposition of the excise, been vexed about it. That is not telling tales out of school. I was in the honourable gentleman's electorate - I hope not to his embarrassment - some months ago and I met scores of growers who were concerned about this. Right throughout the length and breadth of his electorate his people have known that he has tried to have that excise removed. 
The honourable gentleman had 2 sources of information available to him. One was the Australian Broadcasting Commission - and I hope I am not doing it an injustice; at least it was one of the wireless stations - and the second was a newspaper report. This, as I say, is not put in any speculative fashion. This is put in a positive, emphatic, assertive fashion. The Government has decided', it says, and on that basis, 3i hours after the wireless report and, I would submit, at least 2 hours after this newspaper report was published, the honourable member for Angas put out his statement. The charge against him cannot be asserted. 
As to the other inquiry about how this was leaked, we have all lived here long enough to know that stories get out galore, and to try to find them all is to try to clinch all the elements of an impossibility. If you want to pursue anything, by ail means pursue as to how this story appeared, but the charge you make against the honourable member for Angas can, and I hope will, be refused. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. It concerns foreign investment in Australia. Has the Treasury considered the character and ramifications of investment activities in Australia by merchant banks and, if so, with what result? Can the right honourable gentleman say when the House can expect from him a statement on foreign investment? 
I wish to enter this debate for a few minutes. I think my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has overstated his case. My clear recollection, having spent 17 years in this place, is that during the Budget debate private members business and general business always have been put to the bottom of the list so to speak. I do not say that in any denigrating way at all, but T recall vividly  Sir Eric  Harrison saying when he was Leader of the House: 'If people want to talk on the Budget they cannot also talk on general business because it would prolong the debate.' My complaint about the Budget debate itself is that it rs far too long. It goes on for a fortnight. I have known it to go on for  2i  weeks. 1 think that the debate could be truncated. I think it should be reduced to 3 or 4 days. This is the practice in the House of Commons where the philosophy of the budget is examined. I think my friend erred a little when he said that this move is an attempt to disturb the traditional rights of private members. I yield to no person in this place in seeking to preserve the rights of private members. Indeed, I think that they would not only be preserved but also strengthened considerably if the Budget debate were to be reduced over the period. 
That is so. With great respect, I think we are reducing it now by having this debate. I think if we were to restrict the Budget itself to 3 or 4 days to enable the genuine economic philosophy, represented on both sides, to be presented and to be argued we would do much better. That is the position that I take but, unfortunately, my powers of persuasion in this place seem to be very much on the decline. I have not been able to encourage anyone to accept the proposition that a more rational examination should be made of the manner in which we conduct the business of this House and, in particular, the Budget debate. That, for what it is worth, is the reason why I propose to support the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp).  I would not like my friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, to think that some strange plague had taken hold of me and that I had been stricken into a state of silence. 
The last few words of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  reminded me of a country cricket match when a character was given out lbw by the umpire and as he walked towards the pavilion he gave the umpire what I would describe as a most ungenerous look. He said to the umpire '1 wasn't out' and the umpire said: 'Just have a look in the paper in the morning.' The honourable gentleman has tried to encourage himself with a wonderful di.-play of optimism. For my sins, I am addicted to going to the races. On the main gate of every racecourse should be printed a notice to this effect: 'Through this gate pass the greatest optimists in Australia'. On the other side of the gate, there should be a notice to this effect: Through this gate go those who find the road to financial attainment on the racecourse difficult to get'. One may have to paraphrase it. a little, but I am sure that honourable members get the point. 
This may not be a desperately profound thing to say, but I want to say it: The Budget must be looked at as a whole. We must be concerned with the totality of the Budget. For example, one could turn to the speech of the honourable member for Franklin and look at the transport problems of Tasmania in relation to the mainland. I can understand the honourable gentlemans concern about the difficulties in his own State, but to answer that would mean that one had to depart from the basic philosophy of the Budget. I would like to give him a quick assurance that, as far as the Australian Broadcasting Commission is concerned, I for one do not seek to impeach all of its members and burn them at the stake. I certainly do not resent criticism; but I am sure that my honourable friend will understand that this is not the luxury I want to indulge in. 1 want to turn to the totality of the Budget and see what it seeks to achieve. The Budget seeks to remedy what I, for my part, concede were errors in the last Budget in slowing down the economy of the nation. There may be those who say: It is unfair to concede that a mistake was made.' I do not subscribe to that view. I believe that the dampening down of the Australian economy 12 months ago was a little too elaborate. As a consequence today, this Budget sets out to restore confidence to the community, to ensure that consumer spending is boosted, to give impetus to employment and so forth. It is very easy to look at any Budget and to find a fault here, a blemish there, a suspected weakness somewhere else and to concentrate on them. For example, I would have had a preference for cutting sales tax to give an immediate impetus to consumer spending. But, on the other hand, the judgment was made by the Government that income tax should be cut so that the money is immediately available. This is a judgment. Whenever any person criticises anything in the Budget he is under an obligation to say what is the effect of this on the Budget as it applies to some other area. It is the interrelationship of the Budget, the totality of it, with which we are concerned. 
The Budget speaks for itself. Honourable members who have spoken have referred to its effects as they see them. What was the alternative that was put to us by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)?  Whereas private members of this Parliament can engage in criticism to their hearts" content, the leader of an opposition can enjoy no such  place of favour. He speaks for his whole Party. It is his Party's programme that he is presenting. Let us look at the speech made a week or so ago by the Leader of the Opposition. He started by describing the Budget in the imagery of the. desert. He said it was a mirage that would shimmer for 3 months. I am going to try to persuade honourable members that if they accept the proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition it will be like accepting an invitation to join the caravan which starts for the dawn of nothing. In 61 minutes of sustained moaning the Leader of the Opposition set out to give us the impression that he did not think much of the Budget. He is entitled to do that. If there should be any doubt in the minds of honourable members that he does not like the Budget, they can look at the amend ment that he moved. He said, for example, that the Budget should be condemned for a variety of reasons. He said that there is no framework for improving the standards of education, health and welfare'. I have just culled out a few that seem to me to bc of more significance than others. 
There is only one inference to be drawn from the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and that is that he believes that in all of these fields to which he referred, there should be greater expenditure. In other words, the deficit of $630m should be boosted. That is the only possible inference to be drawn. I come back to the original proposition that I put, namely, that it is the totality of the Budget which must be examined. Commonwealth expenditure in the field of education for the coming year will amount to $426m and for social welfare about $2,529m. These amounts, apparently, are not substantial enough for the honourable gentleman. He believes that they should be condemned. Therefore one can only conclude - it is a fair conclusion, I submit - that he has in mind no marginal amounts to boost them. He has in mind a very substantial amount indeed, and it is rather curious for the honourable member for Franklin and some of his colleagues to say: 'This is a panic Budget. You are seeking to secure favour in the election'. If that proposition be true, what on earth are honourable members opposite seeking to do because their proposal is that a $630m deficit is not enough? Kick it up to $ 1,000m? Any advance on that? Make it $ 1,500m? Any takers? This is the logic of the Labor Opposition in this debate, and that is the first point of significance in the speech by the Leader of the Opposition. 
But the second, and I believe the most fundamental, argument which the honourable gentleman mentioned, has as of now not been adverted to but I will spend a moment or 2 referring to it. During the course of his speech the honourable and learned gentleman said: 
Any function of our society will grow in strength, quality and equality to the extent that the Commonwealth involves itself. But if the Commonwealth involvement is limited just to providing cash, then there is no true national commitment at all to promoting the quality and equality of that community service. 
The significance of the words- 
 If any persons ever describe the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and myself as quivering towards centralism because we want the nonsense about the territorial sea settled, 1 hope that they will remember the words of the Leader of the Opposition. 
There is no need to read on.  His  literacy is even extended to Queensland. What do the words 'if the Commonwealth involvement is limited just to providing cash' mean? They simply mean that the honourable gentleman certainly does not have in mind any section 96 grants to the States - Premiers' Conferences, Australian Loan Council meetings, meetings of friends and supporters all gathered around a central table, and they go away from Premiers Conferences indulging in what is almost now a national sport saying that they have not got enough when they go back to their States. 
The Commonwealth says: Here is a section 96 grant for you, old chap. This should encourage a smile back on to your face'. The Leader of the Opposition has not got this in mind at all. He would not be content with the grants procedure. He wants all functions, not merely to be susceptible to Commonwealth control but to be controlled by the Commonwealth. 
We are not dealing with some private member of the Parliament indulging himself in the luxury of playing the role of a critic. One's mind turns to the essay of Samuel Johnson when he wrote of a critic: 
The power of invention having been conferred by nature upon you, there are many who seek notoriety by indulging themselves in the role of  a  critic. 
Here is the Leader of the Opposition speaking on behalf of his Party, the alternative Prime Minister, saying to the Parliament and to the country: T propose to dismantle the whole process of government in Australia'. This is not some fiddling little point. All State functions and all local government functions are to be brought under the control of this Parliament. Let no person say that he did not know the gun was loaded. This is the policy of the Labor Party in Australia. Not to be content with providing the cash, it wants the control. 
The curious feature about this is that the honourable gentleman did not say how he would get it. Would he get it by referendum? Would any person with 2 wits to rub together - I fear that may except one or two people - really contend that you can go to the Australian people with a referendum proposal and say: 'Here it is boys, vote for giving all power to Canberra'. This was tried in 1942 when the late  Dr Evatt  vent to the States asking them to refer all powers to the Commonwealth. Two State parliaments were so minded but that proposal collapsed. In 1944 there was a 14-point referendum. We have had 24 or 25 referendums in Australia and 4 or 5 of them have been carried. It is almost hilarious to imagine that you would ever get out of referendum these powers. The only other way in which the honourable gentleman could possibly get these powers would be by persuading the States legislatively to vote themselves out of existence. Is he seriously contemplating saying to  Sir Robert  Askin: 'Come on, you are running downhill. You look a little old and tired. We will take over from you*. Is he contemplating saying to the newly appointed Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer:  Look, old chap,  Sir Henry  has gone on his way and I think you had better go into retirement, too'? ls he contemplating saying to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  in Queensland or to  Mr Tonkin  in Western Australia: Come on, give us all. We will run things from Canberra'7 
By what means does he propose to get these powers? What I am putting to the House is this; It is passing strange indeed that any person should come forward with such a proposal, but when the Leader of the Opposition comes forward with such a proposal and does not say how he will get it, I think that the country is entitled to say to itself collectively: 'What goes on here?' But even assuming that he should be successful - in other words, let us assume that the witch's brew, if you like, should work and he should get all the power in Canberra - what has he got in his mind? Again T do not want to give offence to the honourable gentleman because of an innate sense of courtesy and sensitivity, but let me refer to a few suggestions made by him. 
He wants to restore the value of repatriation benefits despite the fact that this Budget provides the greatest repatriation benefits ever in the history of federation But what does the vague collection of the words 'restore repatriation benefits' mean? It is uncosted, unknown, unstated. I go to another one, restructing income tax'. What on earth does that mean? What are the costs involved in that? Again, unstated. Labor proposes to reduce sales tax. By how much,  2i  per cent,  5i  per cent, 10 per cent? Conduct an auction, if you like. What does it mean? What does the honourable gentleman have in mind? He said that a Labor government would purchase residential land. What, a $15,000 block close to Bondi Beach or a $500 block out the back of the Barcoo? What does the honourable gentleman mean by this? Again unstated, unkown, undeclared. Labour says that it will turn rural relief into a long range plan. Dearie, dearie me, fancy the Labor Party talking about turning rural relief into a long range plan. Most Labor members would get lost in a horse paddock. 'Regeneration of urban transport'. What cost has the honourable gentleman in mind for that proposal? Again, unstated, undeclared, unknown. I could go on from one to another of these vague hilarious declarations of intention. But the truth is not declared. The truth is blurred. I remind the House that, when it comes to blurring the truth, the honourable gentleman paints with all the swift deftness of a Michaelangelo 
But one thing above all other things is certain. If a Labor Government set out to implement its proposals in the vague sense in which they have been presented to the House, the country would face not a Budget deficit of $630m but a deficit getting within touch of $2,000m. What would be the effect of that? The effect of that would be to give to this country a form of inflation which would make a complete mockery of all the endeavours both of the governments of Australia in the last 20 years and of every private individual. I think that the choice before Australia in the coming election deserves to be stated with some measure of clarity. On the one hand, the people can settle for a party which for the moment has successfully concealed its deep ideological divisions and is led by a man- 
I know that this makes the honourable member laugh. This is the first time I have seen him smile genuinely in the last week. I was referring to a party which is prepared to tolerate proposals put forward in the form in which they were put forward by the Leader of the Opposition a week ago. On the other hand - I want to remind those who sit on this side of the House of this fact - the people can look to the great traditions of our Party, the Liberal-Country Parties. These traditions were founded upon a genuine belief in the capacity of the individual to use his initiative, to seek skills, and in the use of those skills to be rewarded. The great traditions of our Party were founded upon people being willing to have a go, to take risks and to stand up to the critics, be they to the Left or indeed to the Right. The traditions of our Party were founded upon a belief in building an Australia that is strong, free and above all responsible. The ultimate test of government is not what any one individual in the Government may stand for or believe in. It is what, the Government as a totality stands for. It is what the Opposition comes forward with such a stands for. For my part I would like the Labor Party to know that I go out into the next election, along with those others who stand behind the Government, with my head held high, and unless I am greatly mistaken I will be back here, my head again held high. When the ultimate test comes, when the Australian people realise the significance of the choice they make - responsibility in government or irresponsibility; that is the choice - people with normal cerebral processes should not be in doubt as to how they should vote on that occasion. The Labor Party says that it is time to do this and time to do that. I will tell the Australian people what they will get. If they vote for the Labor Party they will get 3 years hard labour. 
-The motion calls for the suspension of standing orders to facilitate the House taking a certain course. I confine my remarks to that motion, although I make a glancing observation to the effect that I have considerable misgivings about the background against which the legislation has been brought into being. It would seem to me to be more appropriate to state those misgivings when the Bill is being considered. The immediate question is simply this: Should an attempt be made by the Parliament to introduce an omnibus Bill to validate all the regulations and ordinances which, by dint of the judgment given yesterday, are thrown into doubt? I may share with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  the sense of anguish and resentment as to the way that the Ordinance has been enforced. I leave that matter until later, when we are dealing with the Bill. 
We are dealing now with this simple proposition: Should an attempt be made by the Parliament to have this facilitation - an attempt to give a general cloak, a cover, to all the regulations and ordinances which have been passed by delegation of the Parliament in the past? That is the sole issue, as I see it. It goes back over 50 or 60 years. It is not that the body, the content, of the regulation or ordinance is in doubt or is exposed to invalidity because of what the regulation or ordinance contains. The blemish which comes into the ordinancemaking procedure, as I understand the judgment, comes by way of the form of notification. That is the sole issue. If the process of notification is wrong, to that extent the Ordinance is inoperative. 
There are 2 problems, and the House has to consider them. They are the inoperativeness of the Ordinance and the invalidity of the Ordinance. They are not 2 estates which coincide. They are quite different. As  Mr Justice  Fox said, it is not that the particular Ordinance is invalid; it is merely that the form of promulgating, the form of notification, has been wrong. It seems to me to be appropriate to hold fire on suggestions which I might make as to what should be done in relation to the form of notification. With great respect, I find myself in agreement with the view expressed by the 2 judges who did not agree with  Mr Justice  Fox regarding one defect. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I recapitulate in very brief form the argument which I was putting to the House before the suspension of the sitting. It is this: There are 2 distinct issues for the House to decide; one is the question of urgency and the other is a consideration of the merits of the legislation. Attending the latter issue is a consideration of all of the incidents which have led up to the unpleasant circumstance. I hope that I have put the argument with clarity, if not with conviction, to my friends opposite that here we have a whole gathering of statutory instruments, ordinances and regulations sweeping back over a generation and more which are thrust into doubt because of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. 
That is the issue. The House can make a judgment on that Turning to the other matter of the Aboriginal 'embassy', that remains on its own a distinct and plainly identifiable question. It is not directly linked with the motion which has been proposed by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Already in a preemptive way I have indicated that I have some misgivings about certain aspects. I hope that I will be able to explain those misgivings again with candour, although possibly not with conviction or satisfaction to all concerned. 

<graphic href="080131197209136_29_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080131197209136_29_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080131197209136_29_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question pot: 
That the motion  (Mt  Sinclair's) be agreed to. 
This is a small Bill. Nevertheless it is quite remarkable and exceptional. Its exceptionality may be found in the test that there are probably not another three or four Bills of a similar character to be found in the statute books of any Parliament, certainly in the Commonwealth of Australia and certainly in the States of Australia. This Bill is brought about by exceptional circumstances and I want to refer briefly to those circumstances so that my argument may at least appear to gather some measure of relevance and perspective. 
The Bill arises from what I would describe as the Aboriginal embassy case. I use that term compendiously and certainly not offensively. It involved the purported gazettal of an ordinance and the subsequent finding by the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory that that ordinance, although not invalid, was inoperative because of technical reasons. Those reasons have been shortly stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - the failure to observe the points of punctilio of notification and so forth. This Bill sets out to put at rest doubts which may have come into being because of the similar form of notification of other ordinances going back, I understand, some 30 years or so. Of course, it has retrospective force. 
It is a sturdy principle of parliamentary activity, as I understand it, that legislation seeking to have retrospectivity should command the characteristic of being exceptional and all of the circumstances relating to it should be scrutinised with the utmost care. It is not that the ordinance was invalid but that the notification was. But if it was invalid on the count of some defect or blemish in the form of notification, it stands to reason that there could well be scores - one could go further and say hundreds - of ordinances which would run the risk of challenge on the count that they too were inoperative because of the failure to observe the prescribed form of notification, or what the court has taken to be the reasonableness of the form of notification. So this Bill seeks to cure retrospectively any blemishes, any defects, which may be in existence. 
So much for the Bill itself, although I will be coming back to the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. But I want to way something for myself about the Aboriginal embassy incident. I want to say it without any heat, and I hope that even though my views may not be accepted at least they will be appreciated. The embassy was created on 26th January 1972. The Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972 was produced on 30th June 1972. Its 'making' as an ordinance was gazetted on 20th July 1972. So some 6 months had elapsed. I do not think any person could fairly say that the Government entered upon any precipitate action as far as the Ordinance was concerned. Indeed, as far as I am concerned personally, I thought the inactivity of those 6 months represented a curious mixture of dither and irresolution. I do not say that by way of stricture of my friend, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  He is a member of a Government, and it is the whole Government that must answer on this count. 
I hold the view, and I hold it firmly, that the Aboriginal cause has not been advanced one iota by the existence of the embassy. I am filled with a sense of shame as my recollection sweeps around this country to what I would describe as some of the very genuine manifestations of neglect by us elsewhere. Let me take my own city of Brisbane. When I go into town of a morning and come home of an evening, I am not filled with any sense of exhilaration to see members of the Aboriginal race gathered together in some of the parks and the places in South Brisbane neglected, afflicted by the ravages of alcohol, afflicted by the gatherings and the temptations, if you like, of the cities. And when I go to such country places as Mount Isa and Cunnamulla and I see there the neglect in housing, it fills me with a seme of shame. 
So if there is to be the acceptance of a responsibility in this area - and that cause I plead - it is ours collectively, and 1 do not believe it is to be advanced by a gathering, however meaningfully, however, tenaciously held by those who are involved, on the front lawns of Parliament House. Surely the test of protests in the ultimate is to be found in dignity - not dignity in any snob sense, but dignity in terms of resolution but at the same time dignity in terms of advancing a cause. Does it dignify a cause when the cause is not being advanced? Surely there is something wrong with the argument or, worse still, surely there is something wrong with those who should listen to the argument. Possibly that is where the fault lies, that we have not listened to the argument and we have not responded as willingly and meaningfully to the argument as we should have Jone. These are the views I hold, and I hold them be they in relation to any gathering of people outside Parliament House. If they were of any race on the face of the earth who sought in this way to extend their protest, I would seek to discourage them, not on the ground of seeking to daunt them at all in prosecuting their cause but rather in the firm belief that it was so useless, so forlorn, and not achieving what they seek to achieve. 
I come to the Ordinance itself which has led to the distress - I use that term with some feeling - in which this Parliament and the country find themselves. The Ordinance has a frugality of expression that almost borders on the incomprehensible. For example, it states that copies of it may be obtained from a Government publishing officer, P.O. Box 84, Canberra. I can understand that. It goes on to state, that a copy can be obtained 'over the counter from the AGPS book centres'. This is all very fine for those who are moving daily in the area where this jargon is used. May I ask those responsible this question--anc the ultimate responsibility of course must be taken by the Government, because this is where there is a repository of responsibility in these matters - what .on earth could the AGPS be to a person who had no connection with it? 
Precisely. Why this groaning display of provincialism? It states that copies may be obtained from .these book centres in Canberra, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. What happens if a person comes from Hobart or Brisbane? This is just as relevant, and I think it is fair criticism to make of the Gazette. I suppose the only comfort to be drawn from ail this is that the judgment of Their Honours in the court is salutary. 
This brings me to what I regard as the central principle involved in this great issue, and that is the whole method by which ordinances and subordinate legislation are handled. This strikes no note of novelty. From the very day on which the Lord Chief Justice, of England, Lord Hewitt, wrote his famous polemic treatise, The New Despotism', the people in the United Kingdom have been seized with the need to try to control in a firm, sensible fashion the great mass of subordinate legislation. Would any member of this Parliament truthfully say that he or she reads, let alone comprehends, the mass of legislation, regulations or ordinances that comes down? There are simply not enough hours in a day. When the Kerr Committee reported to this Parliament in October of last year there was a sense of exhilaration coming from here and there to the effect that we were going to do something about it. The United Kingdom went through the, Donoughmore Commission. I will have something to say about that in a moment. In 1929 it went through the Franks Committee. Both these bodies produced sturdy recommendations trying to come to grips with what is after all the very ethos of Parliament. Governments go. Ministers ano even Prime Ministers are ephemeral. But surely the institution of Parliament is the beckoning light to those who, if they have, a feel for it, seek to maintain it. How on earth do we maintain it when bit by bit, drip by drip the whole of its authority is being washed away? 
Take the case last night. Could any person say, with reason being his companion, that he knew what was in that Gazette published last night? Surely there must come a time when we do bow to the forces of reason, no matter how tempting we may find it to shun them or indeed how convenient we may find it to pretend that they do not exist. What prospect was there for any member of this Parliament, let alone those to whom it was directed, to know what was In it last night? I was reminded of the words of a judge of the Supreme Court- a great judge, if I may so say with respect, and a great citizen - in a case in which he wrote his judgment in his own inimitable way. What he wrote is of some relevance to the point we are dealing with today. It was  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Wanstall in the case of Hughes v. Hi-way Ads. Pty Ltd. It deals with the availability and publication of ordinances. In this case it was a Brisbane City Council ordinance. After having referred to the difficulty of getting accessibility to them,  His  Honour wrote - and it is a delightful story: 
Gaius Caesar, better known as the Emperor Caligula, is reputed in literary tradition to have made a practice of depositing his criminal edicts on top of a monument so that he would have available for punishment the luckless victims who transgressed them in ignorance of their existence . . . 
What is the difference between what Caligula did and what happened last night? We may as well have stuck the Gazette on top of the statue of King George V - on his head or on top of the horse - it would not have made much difference. This is the gravaman of the charge I make. It b important and deserving to be noticed by the Government. 
I referred to the Donoughmore Commission. This was a committee of inquiry into the powers of Ministers and for part of the time its chairman was Lord Justice Scott. In one case which was under consideration, this is what he said: 
There is one quite general question ... of supreme importance to the continuance of the rule of law under the British constitution, namely, the right of the public affected to know what that law is. That right was denied to the defendant in the present case. The maxim that ignorance of the law does not excuse any subject represents the working hypothesis on which the rule of law rests in British democracy. That maxim applies in legal theory just as much to written as to unwritten law, i.e., to statute law as much as to common law or equity. But the very justification for that basic maxim is that the whole of our law, written or unwritten, is accessible to the public - in the sense, of course, that, at any rate, its legal advisers have access to it, at any moment, as of right. 
What if a legal adviser had appeared there last night? What would have been his position? It is all very well for us to seek to extricate ourselves from these miserable circumstances into which we have been pushed by saying that the man had the ordinance there and read it. An adviser surely is entitled to consider what he reads. This is what concerns me: After having waited for so long, this action was taken. I know that people may say that it was a political judgment - that it had to be done, otherwise the tent would have stayed there for a long time, representing an eyesore with the possibility of a further catalyst for trouble. All these arguments exist but I do not think they relieve us of the responsibility of paying heed to this great principle. Ignorance of the law is no excuse but you must know what the law is and that was the difficulty faced by these people last night. 
The last thing I want to say is this: 1 make an appeal, a simple appeal, to the Government and to all the Ministers responsible in this matter. I hope that we will have the sense of grace to say that we do not propose to persist with any prosecutions in this matter. It was an inoperative ordinance, not an invalid one. Nevertheless I do not think that we do credit to ourselves or do credit to the traditions of the parliamentary system if we say: 'Well, so what? All sorts of things flowed from it, therefore we propose to get our pound of flesh.' What is to be gained by this? ls the stature of anyone among us to be raised? Is the Government to be vindicated by pursuing such a course? Would the Government be chastised if it said: 'Well, we concede that there is a difficulty here.' My view is that the Government's, and more particularly, I believe, the Parliament's status and prestige would be enhanced if we could in a corporate fashion say: 'With good will, a mistake was made. We are determined to try to make amends and the only sensible way in which we believe we can do that is to hold out a hand to you and to say that we do not propose to proceed further with these prosecutions.' 
During my life I have sought to observe one precept - albeit imperfectly - and that is to try to respond to argument and to reason. I want to make a second appeal to the Government to respond to argument and to reason - not to prejudice, not to something which may be imagined, either in terms of reality or in terms of imagination, to be the perfect solution. I want to put some hard, crisp argument to the Government regarding the position it is in and the position I understand the Parliament is in. I have not sought to trammel to date this debate by injecting some splendidly wished up view. I have long held the view that one of the crucial problems facing the parliamentary democracies is that of controlling effectively and perfectly subordinate legislation. It is not something that I have just written about the other day and it is with no sense of impertinence that I would invite all the Ministers and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to let us see their recent literature on the subject. 
The most recent thing I wrote on this matter dealt with the Kerr Committees' report. I cite it not by way of boastfulness. Lord only knows what an imperfect search for immortality that would be. I wrote for the 'National Times' for some months until there was an aggregation of wishfulness and maliciousness which asked me to stop. The last article I wrote on this matter was on 6th March this year. It was about protecting the little man from the powers of the state. It dealt with the accumulation of power that can be arranged against an individual, what he can do and the difficulties he faces in trying to protect himself against all the abrasiveness of the state. I know that I may be wrong. I have friends on both sides who have told me in the years 1 have been here that 1 have been wrong. I do not sit down and cry about that - not in the least. I may be wrong about this but I have a deep conviction that the parliamentary system can survive only if those who are called upon to run it are determined to assert the authority of Parliament. That is the premise from which I start. Honourable members may say it is an imperfect one. I am not going to argue it any further. 
As far as this particular amendment is concerned, I made my position clear on the second reading of the Bill this afternoon. Wherever any law seeks to impose a penalty, to exact an obligation, to demand of a person that something be done, I say it must be stated in clear, explicit language. Is that too much? So be. it. 1 do not think 1 can find an argument on that count. Let me come to the immediate problem. I have no sense of patronage left in me at all. My friend the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is a man of good will. When he stated a few minutes ago that the offences connected with this matter did not arise out of the trespass against Commonwealth lands I accepted that argument. But does the honourable gentleman seriously ask me to say that, with respect to all the offences, the Commonwealth should proceed untrammelled and unassailed? I do not think my friend, if he were to listen to the argument, would contend that for one moment. 
Let me illustrate this very quickly. The Minister for Primary Industry said that a number of people have been charged with resisting arrest, assaulting a policeman and using offensive behaviour. I put this hypothesis to the Committee: Assume that a government determined that for some particular reason it was illegal to hose after 7 o'clock at night and an inspector walked in and hammered on the door. He was greeted by the householder who said: What on earth are you doing here?' The. inspector asked: 'What do you mean by having that hose on?' And the householder said: 'I know nothing about the ordinance concerned.' Assume also that the particular ordinance happened to be an invalid and unenforceable ordinance. For heavens sake do not trot out to me. the doctrine of mens rea. This seems to be one of the imperfect acquirements bestowed by southern law schools. If a man came to my home, knocked on the door and said 'You have a hose on, ergo you are guilty', I socked him on the jaw and it turned out that the particular ordinance was invalid or unenforceable, is the Minister serious when he says - if not explicitly, by way of implication - that that would be no defence? 
I do not know what strange jurisprudence has suddenly been acquired by some people. Let me take the case in point. I do not know what the 27 charges are. They have not been detailed. I would point out to the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who is interjecting, that I have been in and out of the criminal courts a little more than he has. Admittedly I may have a few more clients on the other side. At least I provide them with after sales service. But I am concerned with arguing this matter on its merits. I come to the case in point. I am running out of time. 1 hope that you will be indulgent with me,  Mr Chairman.  Let us take the case of an individual - I do not know whether this is the position here - who is arrested for a contravention of the ordinance. Let us take the trespasser who sat down on his - I must be elegant - posterior and refused to move. Let us assume that, as he was being taken off to the paddy wagon, a fellow rouser called out to him: 'Break away. Give it to them'; in other words, he encouraged him, pursuant to section 7a of the Crimes Act, to break away from lawful custody, and he is charged. There is no suggestion of the Crimes Act being invalid. But what has he asked the person in custody to do? He has asked him to break away from lawful custody? Why was he in custody? He was in custody because of some supposed breach of the ordinance and that is the position in which he finds himself. Would my honourable friend from Diamond Valley- 
I am just inviting the honourable member for Diamond Valley to say something. Would he seriously say that it would be a breach? This is an absurd position. I tried to put to the Minister for Primary Industry and to the Government this afternoon that this splendid bravura- 

 - Mr Chairman, what 1 tried to put to the House this afternoon was that where there is a proximate connection between the ordinance and what happened, the Government should show clemency. 1 did not use the word 'clemency'; I used the word grace'. But is that a word which should necessarily embarrass the Government? I have put the position about the Crimes Act. Let me reduce the matter to absurdity by putting the case of an individual who was told at 1 1 o'clock in the morning that there was a great stir on the lawns in front of Parliament House and who, when racing to Parliament House to see it, killed a person on the way and was charged with manslaughter. I am not for one moment suggesting that it would be a defence to say: 'This is connected with the Aboriginal embassy'. 
1 feel no slender obligation to explain anything to the honourable member's cerebral processes. 
 Mr Chairman,  it is not often that I am at a loss for words. I have sought to be relevant. I propose to continue to be relevant and not to be whistled to side by any imprecation or invitation. I come back to this matter and say that no person who has been nurtured with any liberal instinct - that would excuse at least a few in close proximity to me - would subscribe to the view, with respect to an ordinance declared by a court to be unenforcable, that one should then set out to pull in the whole apparatus of the law. What an incredible proposition. The ramifications of it absolutely appal me. 1 may stand alone, but stand alone I will in expressing that sense of defiance. 
What 1 have sought to encourage from the Committee is an acceptance of the view that if there is a proximate connection between the Aboriginal embassy incident - I describe it in that fashion without any offence - and any prosecution connected with it, the Government should declare an amnesty. What has the Government got to lose? What argument has been advanced against doing so? A few banalities from the Minister for Primary Industry - that is all. I am not under any obligation to sit in this Parliament and put up my hand to vote meekly for what I regard on occasions as a curious display of administrative talent. Do not for one moment think that any one of you behind or in front, or on the port or starboard side, have me in a position, after 17 years, where I am going to say: 'Yes, the Whip is right and I am wrong'. Let us hear :he argument of the Minister for Primary Industry. So far we have heard no argument. I have heard an insult come from one side. I regret to say that I have been invited by the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  - to his discredit - to withdraw. I withdraw nothing. I have tried to put a case sensibly and cogently. Honourable members can accept it or reject it. lt would not worry me if my case were to be rejected. A Robert Gordon Menzies in his heyday - I have used these words before and I use them again - would have torn the life and the liver out of this Government for such a proposal. This is a dreadful, scandalous proposal. 
I point out to the Minister that the test is a pretty clear one. He has said that 27 prosecutions are pending. Let us hear them. Is there a prosecution pending with relation to manslaughter with a motor car? I invite the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  to say whether he would honestly suggest that such a charge could be immediately connected with this matter. The honourable gentleman nods his head. I am talking about charges with immediate proximity to this issue. Is my request so unreasonable? It is possible that I am wrong. I am told frequently that I am wrong. But I do ask the Minister with all the simplicity I have at my command to look again at the implications of this legislation. To say what a person would do if he knew it was an invalid proclamation or ordinance is to adopt that clinical approach to the law that does not distinguish the law. The law is robust and alive and the great beneficial influences of the law are drawn from its robust qualities. I seek not to instruct any person as to the jurisprudence to which he should succumb, but I do extend an invitation with all of the sincerity at my command to all members of this Committee, no matter what their views may be, to look at the implications of asking all of those people who have been connected with proximity to face prosecutions on this issue. I think the best test would be for members of the Committee to put themselves in the position of those people. If a man came to you and you were convinced one way or another that the ordinance was not valid, and it turned out to be invalid, what would your reaction be if the Parliament of your nation then said: 'It does not matter very much. We propose to proceed with the prosecution.'? I do not think that this Parliament will raise its status by succumbing to that blandishment but 1 do believe that this Committee and this Parliament will considerably enhance their prestige and status by stating in plain and simple language: 'We propose to have another look at this issue and all of its ramifications. Clemency, mercy and understanding are the 3 goals we seek and these are the 3 goals we propose to attain.' 
-I wish to speak to the motion. I would like an indication from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  that if the motion is defeated, immediately following question time the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  will be given leave to make a statement. This assurance would seem to me to conform both with the basic principles of parliamentary government and certainly my understanding of fairness. If that assurance is given and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is provided with an opportunity to make a statement I am sure that the motion could be withdrawn. 
I address my question to the Minister for External Territories. It refers to the distress regarding starvation in some regions of New Guinea. While I acknowledge the anxiety which the honourable gentleman holds, could he inform the House of the steps that are being taken to ensure that the distress is reduced to a minimum? 
When this matter was last before the House a suggestion was made that the Commonwealth Government would turn back and enter into consultations with the States with the end in view of advancing this issue and ultimately settling it. On the basis of that categorical assurance I voted for the adjournment of the debate. That brings me to say at once that no device will be available to any person and no resourcefulness of mind will be able to contrive a stratagem which will encourage me to vote against this matter being resolved today. That is the course. I hope that no honourable member lingers under any sense of ambiguity as to my meaning. I suppose that an individual coming from outside into the House of Representatives and discovering the number of occasions upon which this issue has been debated would be drawn irrevocably to the conclusion that we are a bunch of masochists as far as the territorial sea is concerned. It is no wonder that the old Latin maxim to the effect that in the public interest an argument must be finished came into existence. It is in the public interest that this argument should be finished. 
The legislation comes back before us today not by dint of the suggestion for a contingency motion of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  but because, I put with respect, the Government wanted to escape the agony that would be in attendance on that motion. So we go now, as it were, to face the executioner cheerfully if not prayerfully. Two arguments seem to exist against this legislation being resolved. The first one is: 'Oh well, we are going to enter into a new spirit of co-operation with the States, in co-operative federalism'. It is one of those splendidly vague shibboleths that are employed, depending on the circumstance and upon the burden to be carried. 
The second argument is that there is no urgency about this measure. I have heard those 2 arguments ad nauseum and I want to turn back to them today. Before  1  do so, I would like to indulge in the luxury of saying that when this matter was last before us I gave some arguments with respect to its urgency. The silence in response to those arguments I describe as deafening. It is all very fine to say that I adverted to the problems facing a young lieutenant commander in deciding whether there is a transgression with respect to territorial waters. What is the answer of the Government to that practical problem? There is none, other than that we are to resort to co-operative federalism . for a solution. 
Those arguments are gone. If some people feel stimulated because they have not been answered, let that stimulation take them where it may. I turn to the first co-operative argument. It follows .the gathering of State Ministers together with the Commonwealth on the law of the sea. A document was put out describing what took place at the gathering. I do not want to upset my friend the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  whose integrity and stature I respect completely, but 1 have always been given to frank speaking and I am not to be dissuaded by respect or friendship from saying that this document represents one of the most shabby collocations of words ever put together after any conference. Two specific matters can be extrapolated from the document. The first is stated in this way: 
Stale Ministers, while recognising the desirability of the Commonwealth consulting the Stales regarding international discussions, made it clear that the authority of the Commonwealth to negotiate international agreements has never been questioned by the States. 
How indulgent that is of the States. I draw attention to the words 'whilst recognising the desirability'. I have always thought that the purpose of a federation is to form a nation. When dealing with matters which include an aggregation of national responsibilities the Commonwealth speaks from the fountainhead of power given to it. The second matter which I culled out is the more respectable of the two. It is stated in these words: 
Th: Commonwealth emphasised the desirability of removing legal" uncertainties as to where sovereignty lay . . . rejects the idea of the possibility of a series of legal cases. 
I ask honourable members to listen to this statement for a gem of initiative and ingenuity: 
One proposal pat forward was that a preferable method in the long term would be to determine the question by constitutional amendment. 
Is my honourable friend serious about that suggestion? Back in the 1930s every political party in Australia joined together to support a referendum with respect to air navigation and it was rejected. I have detected in my electorate no tumult or controversy that might attend the subject of air navigation. I have seen none with respect to this matter. I put to the Government with the utmost sincerity that it simply is not on. The referendum procedure offers but little opportunity for amending the Constitution. 
The second point is in juxtaposition. It was suggested it might be one of the matters which would be brought before the constitutonal  review convention. There is a notion abroad, and I think it should be impeached, that this constitutional review convention will be a panacea for all ills, constitutional or otherwise. The simple fact of the matter is that the convention can achieve nothing other than to make recommendations. Beyond that it would he left to the States either to refer powers - and the prospect of that being done would be rather limited, I would submit - or alternatively to conduct a referendum. I would be impressed at least to the extent of being willing to accept the view of a co-operative, movement if the Commonwealth and the States had conferred in regard to the boundaries of the States. I will illustrate that point. In the Bill introduced by the. Government led by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins, there were certain savings. One of them dealt with bays, and I quote: 
The application cf this Act does not extend to or in respect of any waters of the Sea that are waters of or are within, any, bay, gulf, estuary, river. . . . 
Bays were excepted. In other words to apply the territorial sea provision it must be known where the base line is. When one tries to draw a base line with respect to bays one is faced with a veritable conundrum. Four common law bases have existed since 1900: Twice the territorial sea boundary, which is 6 miles; a measurement of 10 miles; headland to headland; and visual sight. When each one of those cri teria is applied one finishes with a different area of water enclosed. If the States had said to the Commonwealth: 'Look, even though we. have to settle this at some time in the future by co-operation or else by some other fashion, I think we had better set ourselves to establish a CommonwealthStates mixed boundaries commission', I would have said, 'All right, here is an expression of genuineness.' But I must confess I have the greatest hesitation in accepting this in the absence of anything objective. 
3? 
I will have a look at that proposal. It refers to defining the internal waters of the States and the base line, and puts forward the view that an examination should be made of the feasibility. If the honourable gentleman can convince me that we are moving, that something is being done, I will be quite happy. But I am bound to say at the moment that I think nothing is being done - to the tenth power. 
I want to move to the second point, namely that there is no sense of urgency about this. There has been a great sense of exultation about the Australian-Indonesian agreement. I am sorry, I cannot join in the exultation, and I will say why. It is not possible for this Commonwealth Parliament or a Commonwealth government unilaterally to alter the boundaries of a State. That is the effect of section 123 of the Constitution. It cannot be done unilaterally and this is one of the difficulties with respect to the islands in close propinquity to Papua New Guinea. But I want to examine the argument of the States that they have control of the continental shelf. Before turning to that, may I inquire what is meant by the continental shelf? In 1958, the immediate criterion was water out to 200 metres - and tacked on to article 1 of the convention of the continental shelf the exploitability test. In other words there was, to use the language of a Minister in the past, an expanding rim. 
The States have said that they agree to the 200-metre mark and they are also prepared to accept the expanding rim doctrine. That is one approach to what constitutes the continental shelf, more compendiously described as the continental margin, which includes the slope and the rise down to the abyssal plain. Alternatively we could accept what has been described in the International Court of Justice decision in the North Sea continental shelf case as the natural prolongation of the land under the sea to the land to which it is appurtenant. Whichever criterion we accept, the States say: 'We own this". 
This is not a matter of some speculation. I have had the benefit - dubious, I am bound to say - of reading a paper prepared by the former Attorney-General in Queensland,  Dr Delamothe,  for an address to the National Development Committee of the Government Parties. No opportunity was provided for any person who did not agree with  Dr Delamothe  to come and talk to that august body. Among other things, he cited from an opinion given by  Mr Harold  Winneke, Solicitor-General of Victoria. He stated: 
The Attorneys-General of the Stales are of the opinion that, subject to a possible exception to be mentioned below- 
That was irrelevant -  that sovereign rights in respect of the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the Continental Shelf contiguous to the coast of the States are wholly within State authority. 
Again, there is no doubt about that. The doctor, who knew more about appendectomies than he knew about the law of the sea, went on to say this: 
In my view, then, primarily Queensland owns the maritime belt (3 miles limit) and has also lights to explore and exploit the whole continental shelf. 
There is no doubt about that. If the States are right, the Commonwealth is purporting to alter the boundaries of the States, in flat conflict with section 123 of the Constitution. I would be interested to hear an argument coming from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  on that point. If the States are right and they do have sovereignty over the entire continental shelf including the slope then, under the Indonesian agreement, there are certain areas, albeit minute, surrendered either to a form of Indonesian control or completely to them. I would think that it was as arresting a proposition as anything that I could conceive that, pursuant to an international agreement, a Commonwealth government consciously could purport to alter the boundaries of the State. 
I come now to the second aspect, that of urgency in this matter. We will be taking part in a law of the sea conference in Geneva next year. Again, taking the assumption that the States do have sovereignty over the continental shelf and over the continental slope - indeed, some of them would go so far as to say over the whole continental margin - one of the crucial issues before that conference next year will be to delineate what is national jurisdiction. This had its origin in a recommendation made by a former Maltese ambassador to the United Nations, Ambassador Pard, who clamoured for the development of an international regime with respect to the oceans of the world. President Nixon, speaking with all the singular authority of his office, has said that he has a preference for cutting off the national jurisdiction of all countries at the 200- metre mark and that the area from the 200-metre mark out to and including the continental slope - the continental rise down to the beginning of the abyssal plain - should be handed over to a trusteeship, with 50 per cent of the proceeds of exploration - minerals, oils or whatever it may be - going to underdeveloped countries and the other 50 per cent to the coastal States. 
What is to be the position of the Australian delegation in those circumstances? No federal saving clause is going to rescue the Australian delegation from the dilemma. 1 know at the moment the view is that we will run along and argue for the best. I am tempted to predict that the majority of nations will opt for cutting off national jurisdiction at the 200-metre mark. If that happens, what is to be the position in relation to the States? State territories are involved and a decision must be made by the Commonwealth with respect to it. Is the Commonwealth going to say, if another nation subsequently seeks to arraign us before some international arbitral body: 'The States have granted permits to explore and exploit minerals. This is a matter between the Commonwealth of Australia and the components in the Federation'? The nonsense can be seen at first glance. 
I suggest that this is the dilemma that the Government is in. Is any person's reputation seriously to be put in jeopardy by allowing this matter to be resolved in the 
High Court? That, after all, is the purpose of the High Court. With great respect, the consultations with the States seem to me to be productive of nothing more than groaning, creaking displays of provincialism. We are dealing with great and important issues here. If I were to conduct a survey in this House and ask all honourable members what has been the dominating feature of the 20th century, I suppose I might be told it was the holocausts of World Wars I and II; but I suspect that it may be the view of many of us that it has been decolonisation, the breaking up of empires where dominions swept across whole continents, with new nations came into being. Fivesevenths of the world in which we live is made up of oceans. Surely to heavens it is not going to be the experience of the 20th century that there is to be set loose the forces of a new colonialism - the race to the swift and to the strong. Surely this is not our wish. Surely this is not to be our hope and surely we will act and behave in a manner which befits a nation and not a gathering of 6 provinces. 1 am proud to be. an Australian. I speak and think of myself as an Australian first. I am proud of The town in which I was born and the State in which I live. But my first responsibility - my first loyalty and allegiance - brings me back to the nation in its corporate sense - and this Bill expresses that. Every move which has been made by the Government with respect to ensuring that this Bill does not get on to the statute book seems to me to fly flatly against the tradition of which I speak and to work flatly against the best interests of this nation. 
Mir CONNOR (Cunningham) (2.54) - We have heard notable contributions on this measure from the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  They have both spoken like Australians - like big Australians. I might not agree with their politics but I do agree with their patriotism. The question that is posed in this Bill is whether we, standing here today in a national Parliament, are prepared to assert the fundamental sovereign right, the indubitable sovereign right, of the national Parliament to legislate in respect of its offshore terrain. The Bil itself is exemplary in its drafting, its con ciseness and its general coverage because in it very carefully - and I pay credit to those responsible for its drafting - is every point which would need to be adjudicated on by the High Court of Australia. 
In a national Parliament we discuss national issues. As the right honourable member for Higgins said in May of this year, this is a matter of high national politics. Today is the day when the Australians in this House of Representatives can stand up and be counted. There is no alternative to it. This is the Grand Assize of Australia. It is where we speak in terms of national welfare. There was never an issue considered by this House where so much was at stake either in terms of constitutional principle or in the value of the assets involved. The Government has of course put itself into a ludicrous position. It is wearing 2 hats on this issue. A matter of weeks ago we had the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  negotiating in full national status and stature with the- Government of the Republic of Indonesia on an agreement or a- concordat, call it what you wish, and I believe it was a reasonable one and one that was satisfactory to both sides. But having worn that hat of national sovereignty in respect of our transactions with another nation the Government then speaks within Australia in terms of Australian parochialism and as the subordinate, the junior constitutional partner of the 6 separate States. 
Let any member of this House answer me these questions: What State accredits ambassadors? What States enter into treaties with other sovereign nations? In what other place but Australia and under a government such as this could we have a situation as is defined in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act where a sovereign national Parliament agrees not to exert its sovereign national rights? A king cannot be less than a king nor can he abrogate any part of his sovereignty. As this is a national Parliament we cannot agree not to exercise national powers. The tail is wagging the dog in Australia today. The 6 States have intimidated, for various reasons, this Government and in doing so they hold Australia up to international ridicule because the right of the Commonwealth is undoubted in respect of the continental shelf. 
Where before in Australian constitutional history has the Chief Justice said in advance what his decision would be in one of the most grave and important matters of constitutional law? Where before has he been backed up by one of his brother justices,  Mr Justice  Windeyer who fully agreed with his sentiments? They are worth quoting and repeating. This was in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia. This is what the Chief Justice of Australia said: 
It is quite clear historically, if one examines the descriptions of the territory placed under governorship, that the territory of the original colony of New South Wales except as to certain islands of the Pacific did not extend beyond low  water  mark on the eastern coastline of the Continent and of the Island of Tasmania: and that as each of the colonies of Victoria and Queensland were severed from it, the territory of those colonies by description also ended at low water mark. The same can be said of the other Australian colonies. Thus the reasons given in the Canadian Case are applicable to the circumstances of those colonies. 
If you want to take it further you have no less than the opinion of a former Chief Justice of the International Court of Justice,  Sir Percy  Spender. These matters were fully discussed and ventilated even before the Bonser case at a legal convention in Sydney. We have reached the apotheosis of state parochialism in this legislation and in the attitude of this Government. As for the States themselves, they are entitled to a fair deal. Any national government would assuredly give proper recognition to them in respect of royalties because, let it be remembered, they provide the infrastructure for the servicing of the off-shore drilling rigs, the pipelines and the like. But this is a fundamental issue and it is of growing importance because in the world today we face a crisis in hydrocarbons and we in Australia have many problems to solve. At the present time with the Bass Strait discoveries and the other off-shore oil productions we can still supply only 70 per cent of out needs of petroleum and allied products, lt has been estimated that within 5 years we will be able to produce only 30 per cent of our needs. On the other hand we would appear to have world ranking supplies of natural gas. This is the nub of the problem. If you want to look at the real causa causans it is simply this: When parochialism was rampant a foolish, stupid, parochial arrangement was entered into between a former Prim; 
20194/72 -  R.  - (1001 
Minister and a former Premier of the State of Victoria and today we are suffering from the backlash of it. 
One of the by-products of it is the present impasse between the Australian Gas Light Co. and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and its subsidiary, Tubemakers of Australia Ltd. There is a new set of values in relation to hydrocarbons in the world today. When the original Bass Strait agreement was entered into - it is an unspeakable one - the going price was a matter of 30c per 1,000 units for natural gas. In point of fact the Australian Gas Light Co. refused to pay that price after a long haggle and bad blood was created then which exists to this day and will continue to the detriment of Australian industry. We now find that the Australian Gas Light Co. has alternative supplies at 16c to 17c per 1,000 units. But in the world today the United States is suffering an acute shortage and we will have proven surpluses. The United States is prepared to pay as high as $1 per 1,000 units and even the Japanese are prepared to pay 80c per 1 ,000 units. 
The prices fixed for crude oil, which at the time were considerably in excess of the going price and which I criticised justifiably in the light of the then scale ot international charges, have been far exceeded. Today and in the future the stature of each nation and its very right to survive will depend upon the availability of hydrocarbons to provide energy needs. It was said that nations in World War II floated to victory on a torrent of crude oil. To this day and for a very considerable time to come that will be the situation internationally. 
How is this Government to speak in national terms if it is not prepared to assert its undoubted rights? Does it have ro be skulldragged screaming to the High Court of Australia? That is the position it faces. Let us revert to the case of Bonser v. La Macchia. Has there ever before been such a pathetic spectacle as that of the senior legal representatives of the  Commonwealth  of Australia and of the State of New South Wales both tiptoeing into the High Court and, very ashamedly and in a very small voice, suggesting to the Chief Justice that he should not adjudicate on the question of sovereignty in respect to the continental shelf? They were rebuked, and rightly so because they were speaking on behalf of little Australians. The present situation stultifies every crown law department in Australia. If the leading legal luminaries - legal advisers - of the respective governments, both Federal and State, were able to speak their minds without inhibition they would say that the sovereign right undoubtedly resides in the Commonwealth; and so it will be. 
The right honourable member for Higgins raised also the issues of pollution and fisheries. Australia is an island. It is the smallest of the continents and the largest of the world's islands. It has the largest of all the continental shelf. - and probably the richest. The largest remaining unproven oil field and natural gas field is to be found off the north west shelf of Australia - off the shore of Western Australia. The whole of the area between the north of Australia and its north west and the East Indies is undoubtedly the world's major reservoir. In the past we have had too much of this Government abdicating its national responsibilities. We have had too much of it refusing to exercise its proper function to regulate international trade. Let me remind the House that, in respect of the exports of both iron ore and wood chips, the Government reluctantly but finally had to intervene. We have the same pathetic spectacle in respect of coal exports. We are already hearing the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  suggesting in a very subdued voice that it is quite possible that some of the less accessible reserves of the north west shelf could be exported. 
We - I am speaking in terms of the incoming Labor administration - will be wanting to see exactly what is involved. There will be no more national sellouts. We will see that Australia's natural resources are sold in the future at world parity prices. We will see that we arc respected among the other trading nations for our ability to demand our rights and get them. Our honesty and ability to fulfil our contracts are undoubted. Our word is good. But other nations sneer at us because we are soft touches in international trading terms. A total of 140,000 miles of the north west shelf, under the terms of prospecting rights granted by the State of Western Australia, has been given to one firm - Woodside Burmah. Farm- out agreements have been negotiated with almost every major oil exploration and production company in the world and they are to be found there. The results of the infinitesimal part of it which has been tested up to date are fantastic in terms of their financial value. 
What does the future hold? Who in this House has not heard of OPEC - the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries? The Arab nations and the Moslem world, where most of the current world oil production happens to be, have got together and decided to assert their rights and their status. They are doing so in no uncertain terms. They are getting high prices. That is a matter for them. It is only within the last fortnight that a Yemeni represetative of the Trucial States in the Arabian Gulf was able to negotiate a contract in unprecedented terms under which 20 per cent of the estates and interests of the oil companies will be purchased by the members of OPEC. The pressure is on. There is no limit to what these countries will decide. The major consuming countries of the world are in a desperate position. I speak of the United States and Japan. They will be looking for alternative supplies. We could supply them with some. But whatever it is, it must be supplied at a proper price. It must be in Australia's interests and it must be in terms of a contract negotiated by a truly Australian national government. Let us imitate the imitators. MITI - the Ministry of International Trade and Industry in Japan - knows just how to handle Japan's resources. It knows how to buy and how to sell. It also knows how to import and how to export. We can learn a lesson from the Japanese; and learn it we shall. I repeat that today will be the opportunity for the big Australians to stand up and support this legislaton, irrespective of party allegiances. Party allegiances do not matter in a situation like this. The Opposition welcomes the measure. 
asked the Minister  for  the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
On what date and at what time was a request made or direction given to the Australian Government Publishing Service for the printing of the information contained in Commonwealth of Australia Gazette No. 86A of 1972. 
Who made the request and/or order. 
How many copies of the Gazette were printed by (a) 12.01 a.m. and (b) 1.00 a.m. on Wednesday, 13th September 1972. 
Was the Australian Government Publishing Service Book Centre at 113 London Circuit, Canberra, A.C.T. open for business at any time between 12.01 a.m. and 6.00 a.m. on Wednesday, 13th September 1972. 
If not, at what time on 13th September 1972 did the book Centre open for business. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Ser vice. By way of brief preface I observe that I have been informed that an allowance is paid under a scheme to retrain housewives and to encourage them back into the workforce. I am further informed that the Queensland Government has increased the rents of housewives living in housing commission homes pursuant to the allowance granted. Will the Minister have inquiries made to see whether this information is well founded? If it is, will he seek to encourage the Queensland Government to moderate its policy? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Does he accept the convention of government that correspondence passing between Ministers is not revealed until such time as is appointed by law for the consideration of historians, archivists and so forth? If the honourable gentleman does accept that convention, can he give an assurance to the House that henceforth that convention will be observed no matter how tempting it may be to breach it? 
There are 2 views which may be taken of this Bill. Firstly, there is the view which the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  invites us to take and, secondly, there is the view which the Bill commands us to take. Any resemblance between the 2 views is, in the language of Hollywood, entirely coincidental. I will be saying something about both of the views later on, for better or for worse. But first let me say this to the Minister and to the Government: I know that they have no particularly elevated opinion of our intelligence, but they do not do themselves much credit if they take the view that we do not apprehend what is in fact behind this Bill. 
When he introduced the Bill, the Minister said that it was a little measure - stirring up comfort all over the place. Let me digress for a moment to say this to the honourable gentleman: Here is a Bill to amend the Electoral Act, introduced a few weeks after a Bill again to amend the Electoral Act to provide for 18-year-old voting. Why did the Minister not join the 2 of them together? It is perfectly - plain - I hope that the country understands this - that the Labor Government is pitching for a double dissolution. The Government may take the view that it is riding high at the moment. I do not want to upset it too much so early in the session; but, by the time the bills for the Government's extravagance start arriving in and the level of inflation is understood by the people of this country, its prospects of surviving as the Government after a double dissolution will disappear completely. He may ooze confidence today, but if the honourable gentleman would take any advice from me I would sweep him to the writer of Ecclesiastes who wrote that it is far better to be a live dog than a dead lion. If the honourable gentleman has any sense he will not seek to use this Bill as the means whereby to dissolve both Houses of the Parliament. 
Having said that, I turn to the Bill itself. The honourable gentleman was in a most genial mood when he introduced the Bill. He reminded me of a judge wearing a black cap, about to pronounce the death sentence and invoking the Deity's mercy on the soul of one about to be swept to eternity. The Minister said that the changes would be minimal. That was the adjective he used. It took him 40 minutes to tell us about the minimal changes. He incorporated 5 tables in Hansard. We all were indulgent; we allowed him to put them in. If he could have put a photograph of himself in Hansard it also would have gone in. He was courteous. He thanked us all. Figures galore were produced. He then indulged himself in a touch of history, took himself back to 1902 and also reminded us about the Joint Com mittee on Constitutional Review. In all my days I never suspected that I would see the honourable gentleman posing as one with an affection for history. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to put my cards on the table with the honourable gentleman. I take the view that he has succumbed to political notions which are startingly irrational. But, despite that, we have contrived to form a friendship which on occasions is quite rollicking. That adds point to what I say to the honourable gentleman. On the basis of what he disclosed historically the other day, if he thinks when an historical society seeks him out that it is after his patronage he should be cautious. It will not want his patronage; it will be seeking him as a curio. What is the origin of this 20 per cent tolerance? As has been pointed out by my distinguished and gallant friend, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  this provision has been in the Electoral Act since 1902. 
I will come to that. 1 am indebted to the honourable gentleman because, of all the percipient minds on the Government side, the honourable member for Robertson at least has some claims, albeit tenuous ones. Let rae come back to 1902. When the Bill of that day was being debated the honourable member for Bland, a  Mr Watson,  proposed that there be a 16i per cent tolerance.  Mr Watson  was to become the first Labor Prime Minister. He proposed 161 per cent. Does the Minister for Services and Property seriously suggest that  Mr Watson  in 1902, looking at his argument, was seeking to impose something distorted upon the Australian people? In the Committee stage another honourable member said that at first sight it would seem as though the honourable member for Bland was right. That is the effect of what he said. Then it was suggested that, instead of 161 per cent or one-sixth, the tolerance should be one-fifth. What is striking about the history of this provision is that in 1902 it was agreed to without division. 
In my submission, what was put to the House this afternoon by the honourable member for Barker is striking in its validity. If any honourable gentleman opposite, in the course of this parliamentary session, talks about decentralisation I hope that every syllable disposes to choke in his throat. The simple truth of our existence is that the great majority - the overwhelming majority - of the Australian people live in a few cities and common sense, quite apart from any other consideration, commands us to look anxiously and realistically at the position of country interests. It is all very fine with one broad sweep of the brush, as it were, to say: 'The people are in the cities and this is where all interest lies*. The simple truth of the matter is that this nation extends far beyond the cities. That is not a very profound observation to make but one which I fear must be made having regard to the attitude taken by some honourable gentlemen opposite. 
Probably the best argument against this legislation comes from the Minister's own lips. It came out with that touch of fragrance of argument that we have been accustomed to. One vote one value' was the honourable gentleman's indulgence the other evening. Splendid heroics! Let us read what the honourable gentleman had to say when it came to the crunch. He seemed to me to be a little confused. I do not want to upset him because my nature itself would be distressed by doing so. The Minister said: 
The vote of one person, whatever his occupation or location, should be as good as the vote of another. 
At first blush all of us would agree with that. We would not find ourselves in argument with that at all. But what is the argument of the Minister for Services and Property. He also said that exact equality in the number of electors per division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable. Which argument does the Minister embrace? He cannot have both arguments but with a name like Frederick Michael Daly what else could we expect of the honourable gentleman? He reminds me of the curious Irish character standing in the dock called upon by the judge's associate to plead either guilty or not guilty. He said: 'I don't know, I haven't heard the evidence yet'. But why is there the provision for a 10 per cent quota variation in the Bill? Why put on the bracelets, the virtue, of 10 per cent? If the honourable gentleman wants to keep the principle of one vote one value, about the only place in which he could display that principle would be in a political clinic. The Minister concedes that when we look at his argument. 
But let us go back to the halcyon days of 1949 when the Minister for Services and Property did not have resting upon his shoulders so delicately all the shrouds of 
12608/73  -  R - 39J 
authority and he was the mere private member, the honourable member for Grayndler. A redistribution was carried out in those days by a Labor Government. The Minister for Services and Property and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who thundered about this so vigorously on a recent evening, were both in that Parliament. What happened in 1949? Again I do not want to upset the honourable gentleman, for this really hurts me. The number of electors in the seat of Grayndler was 40,716 and, according to the honourable member for Grayndler, not all of them were Christians either. In the same election there were 31.616 electors in the electorate of Kalgoorlie. In round figures there were 40.000 on the one hand and 31.000 on the other. One vote one value! Let us take the seat of Kennedy at the same election. Tt had 30.364 electors. The simple truth of the matter is that this is a case of convenience as far as the Minister is concerned. He thunders, as did the Minister for Education the other evening, that this is in effect Labor policy T would hale to have him on my side in an argument if he says that this is Labor policy. 
Let us take 2 seats in Western Australia - firstly, the seat of Balcatta which has 14.129 people on the roll. Secondly, the seat of MurchisonEyre has 1.879 electors. With about 3 months hard work the member would know them all by their Christian names. But I have heard no complaint from the Minister nor have I heard any suggestion from the Minister for Education that they are determined to bring the principle of one vote one value ink Western Australia. The Minister for Education interjects. I point out that  Mr Tonkin  has been in office for some months now. Pie honourable gentleman cannot reprobate one stand and then say that that is not convenient. The simple truth of the matter is- 
If the Tonkin Government wants to show that it has a conviction about one vote one value let it persist in the matter but there has been precious little evidence of any persistence. Let us take South Australia, another Labor State. Honourable members opposite do not like this. It upsets them. But they should not get upset. We will get them some lithium and that will quieten them down later on. In South Australia the seat of Norwood, held by the Premier, has 16,316 electors while the seat of Whyalla has 9,280. I have not heard the Minister announce: T propose to lead an expedition to South Australia to relieve the people from their state of torment about the fact that they have not one vote one value'. Let us take another chamber in this place. Does any person seriously suggest that the Senate today is a reflection of the intention of the founders of the Constitution? It was to be a House of review, a House in which the position of the States and the Commonwealth was to be considered, and considered meticulously. No person would seriously contend that. But there are 10 senators from South Australia representing 350,000 people with votes of the same value as 10 senators from New South Wales who represent 31 million people. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for reminding me of that. That is to indicate the position of peril which the Labor Government is in, at least from the viewpoint of vindicating in terms of logic and sharp political honesty its present position. But there are 2 other reasons why I believe the Minister for Services and Property can be persuaded to withdraw this Bill. He holds himself out as a man of reason, a man of logic and a man always willing to listen to argument. I want to put to him 2 arguments which I hope will convince him that the Bill cannot work. If I convince him that the Bill cannot work I am sure that he would be agreeable to withdrawing it. Let me take the first argument. Clause 4 of the Bill seeks to amend section 25 of the Act by deleting 'one-fifth' wherever it occurs and inserting the words 'one-tenth'. What is the effect of this? Taking the redistribution as from 1968 to 1972, there were some 47 electorates in this country over the quota of onetenth. The provision in the Act is mandatory. It does not say 'may' but 'shall'. If we find that in Queensland one or two electorates are out of balance and over the quota we are required to have a distribution. In South Australia, of 12 seats in the period from 1968 to 1972 there were 3 seats with a variation of over 10 per cent. In other words, we would have to have a redistribution. It would be mandatory under the proposal of the Labor Government. 
The outcome would be chaos and a frequency of redistribution which would be confusing to the Australian electorate and intolerable to those who go to Parliament. Beyond that, imagine the position of the electors themselves. Let us put ourselves in the position of living in an electorate adjoining thai of Hindmarsh, held by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  that zealot for parliamentary democracy. Let us contemplate being caught up in the redistribution and going into his electorate. It would be enough to form the foundation for a nervous breakdown. 
The second argument I put to the honourable gentleman - I know he has been tremendously impressed with the first - is that the Bill cannot work because the proposed alterations to section 19 of the Act would mean that there would be a situation where the provisions already in the Act would have to be infringed in order to have an electorate. Let me illustrate that proposition. Prior to 1965 what appeared in section 19 was a provision to the effect that the redistribution commissioners should take into account community of interest or diversity of interest. The commissioners were at liberty to consider all of the factors that went with a community of interest or with a diversity of interest. In 1965, as we all know, that was altered to include many other things - the trend of population, which stays of course; the density or sparsity of population in a division; and the area of a division. What is proposed by the Minister is community of interest within the division, including economic, social and regional interests. But precisely nothing is proposed for section 19 of the Act which would enable a group of redistribution commissioners to ensure that existing boundaries of a division, the physical features of a division and the means of communication and travel could be observed. Take, for example, the seat of Kennedy. Kennedy would have to extend from Mount Isa through Cloncurry down to Kingaroy in order to get the numbers. Does the Minister seriously suggest that Kingaroy has community of interests with Mount Isa? Nothing could point up in a sharper way the absurdity of the proposal. 
I finish where I began: The Labor Party seeks to meet the Liberal and Country Parties in electoral combat as a result of this Bill. To the Minister and those who sit with him I say that we are ready and by the time the bills of the Government's extravagance come home the people of Australia will be ready and the Minister for Services and Property, if he is lucky, may come back here and take the seat I am now sitting in. 
Hilaire Bel loo once wrote: 
From quiet homes and first beginning, 
Out to the undiscovered ends, 
There's nothing worth the wear of winning, 
But laughter and the love of friends. 
That is not, as we may at first blush suspect, a drab and unwelcome piece of cynicism. It is, on reflection, a revelation of the fact that all paths of glory do lead but to the grave and that the great things of life are indeed laughter and the love of friends. Nothing I can think of would show our late friend,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, to be other than a friend of all people. When I was first elected to this House he said to me: 'You will get a lot of advice here. Most of it is dubious. The only advice I give to you is this: All the good bowlers are not in the one team.' Honourable members would not need to argue with me too strenuously on that proposition. Neither the tinsel of power nor the transient grandeur of position had the slightest effect upon the remarkable man whom we recall today. He was essentially natural to every person with whom he had any dealing. I like to recall the occasion when he was taken into one of the curious establishments to which I belong - the Johnsonian Club in Brisbane - that has no other reason for its existence than companionship. He was introduced by a judge of Queensland to the captain of a visiting American ship and some of his officers as  Sir Arthur  Fadden, Acting Prime Minister and Treasurer of Australia. At the end of an hour, the captain turned to the judge and said to him: You must take us to be a bunch of suckers if you think we believe that he is the Acting Prime Minister of Australia.' Such was his complete naturalness. 
Time of course does blunt the edge of memory but I will never forget as each year went by our annual visits on Boxing Day to the Highland Gathering at Warwick. I wondered how so much exuberance and unfeigned amiability could be reposed in one man. To have known him was indeed to have experienced a whole literature of life, the quips never stopping. I recall the last political meeting - or so I regarded it - that he honoured in support of me. Half way through it I whispered to him, not quite so quietly: 'I am trying to win votes.' But he turned and replied to some interjectors with picturesque language. He won them. He then turned to the man who had given him some measure of entertainment, took him into a hotel and bought him a drink. He won that man's heart and I suspect he may have voted for me by accident. 
I remember the last time, a few days before he died, that I went to see  Sir Aruthur  Fadden. He knew that he was stricken with a serious illness, but his humour was as indefatigable and defiant as ever. He said: 'They have taken so many pictures of me that I am going to leave them all to the national art gallery.' When I shook his hand I knew it was the last farewell. I have said that the edge of memory is blunted a little by time. We will never see his like again with our own eyes - eyes which grow a little wearier each year searching for those no longer to be seen. But this man will always be with us in the vision both of memory and of hope. 
The raising of this matter seeks to draw public attention to what I would describe as the supine attitude of the Government concerning the arrest, trial and execution of 3 Australian citizens. It is not a squabble about the personal differences between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  The Prime Minister yesterday informed the House that he first heard of this matter some days after the Attorney-General had heard about it. When he informed the House that this was the case he told us that he assumed this was the position of the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General assumed that the Department of Foreign Affairs had been informed and had in turn informed the Prime Minister, and vice versa. To use his own language, the Prime Minister said: 
. The Yugoslav Ambassador did not give the information to me or to the Department of Foreign Affairs. Each should have done so; each assumed the other had.  1 just want to say this to the honourable gentleman: If assumption is now to be a new element in the conduct of foreign affairs, a new peril has been added to our existence. 
It seems incredible to think that the Attorney-General of this Government can be informed unofficially about the execution of 3 Australian citizens. One is left with the impression that if that does not rouse a person to a sense of indignation, nothing will. One is left with the impression that it is almost an everyday affair - you do not even bother to mention it. I say to the honourable gentleman that the explanation he gave to the House yesterday afternoon was one of the most unsatisfying that the honourable gentleman has ever given in his career on any subject. To say in this matter that the Attorney-General is deserving of a mild, gentle impeachment seems to me to be a rather quaint attitude to take. Putting it in homely language, the Prime Minister should have called for the Attorney-General's resignation, and that would have been an indication as to where he stands and where his Government stands. 
This issue is not to be confined to the differences between the honourable gentleman and his colleague, grave as they may be. The gravity of this matter goes to another area of activity - 3 Australian citizens arrested, tried and executed, and done in secret. Surely this is the distinguishing characteristic of the servile state where the processes of law and justice are conducted in secret without any regard to security matters in the strict sense. I am sure that I speak for the great majority of people in this country when I say it is that which has caused a deep sense of offence to those who live in our community. Yesterday the honourable gentleman, in seeking to exculpate in advance himself and his Government from the predicament into which they have been thrust, adverted to some correspondence which passed between 2 Ministers in the last Government - between the then Attorney-General and the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. I hope that the honourable gentlemen will not be upset if I say that I thought that represented a breach of an undertaking which he had given to this House some little time ago when I asked him whether he accepted the convention that correspondence passing between Ministers should not be released until the time provided by law. If 1 remember the honourable gentleman's reply aright, he said: Yes, it should be breached only in exceptional circumstances. This is the second occasion on which it has been breached by a government which has been in office for a matter of 6 months. 
However, the honourable gentleman has not sought to argue the case of exception again. I hope that he will be persuaded to tell us the basis upon which he makes this further exception, but anticipating some of the argument that he will no doubt press upon us may I say that the matter to which the correspondence between the former Attorney-General and the former Minister for Foreign Affairs relates is entirely distinguishable from the matter we are discussing. The previous case in the correspondence relates to a matter where the Australian ambassador in Belgrade was aware of what had happened and the Government was aware of what had happened. There was, as it were, an exchange or argument between 2 Ministers as to what attitude should be adopted and a decision was made. 
We are informed that 3 Australian citizens have been executed. I say to the honourable gentleman that I do not think that he is on secure grounds when he says the differences which occurred between Ministers, of course, indict the Opposition because it composed the Government until December last. What is the gravamen of this matter? I have suggested the fact that these people were tried in secret. They were arrested and presumably tried in December last and the executions were carried out, I gather, on 17th March. At least 3 months elapsed between the trial and execution. What an extraordinary performance for a sovereign power to indulge in, to hold 3 nationals of another country in prison with the prospect of execution and not seek to inform the country to which they belonged. That would be strange in itself, but what becomes literally offensive is the fact that the head of state of that country visited this country and dined with the honourable gentleman and some of his colleagues and no mention was made of it. I want to say to the honourable gentleman that suggestions of building up mutuality between this country and any other country simply are not on the board if that is the sense of candour to be shown in the conduct of affairs. I understand that the honourable gentleman has received an invitation to visit Yugoslavia. If that be true and if his response to that invitation is in the affirmative then I invite the honourable gentleman, having regard to what has happened, to say to the Yugoslav Government: 'I now must decline to go'. 
Yesterday the honourable gentleman adverted to dual nationality which is, of course, a matter of great complexity and gives rise to some impressive problems'. As I understand the history of this case; 3 Croatians came to Australia. In tile course of time they were naturalised and received Australian citizenship. However, their previous nationality had not been extinguished. -This is a classic case of dual nationality. The master nationality would be the nationality they first had. It is the first case that I have encountered involving dual nationality where the master national state has not sought to inform the other state that it is holding within its power people who hold themselves out as being citizens of that state. I believe the honourable gentleman carries a grave responsibility to see there is appropriately registered in an appropriate way the sense of indignation which this country holds. We are not discussing some abstract point of international law. If citizens who have come to live amongst us are faced with the prospect, if they ever return to their own country, of being tried for an offence and their new country knows nothing about it then all I can say is that the prospect of attaining genuine peace in the world declines even further from our sight. 
I say to the honourable gentleman that this issue is not to be dispatched by saying  'Senator Murphy  and I had some mild disagreement. He assumed that certain matters were taking place. The Department of Foreign Affairs was in a certain position. The Yugoslav Ambassador assumed that something else had happened'. Here is a clear case of 3 Australian nationals who have been executed. The honourable gentleman also said yesterday that he did not think that certain information could reach this country until the tenth of this month and he gave as a reason for that the fact that there is the May Day holiday. Really and truly that is not a formidable excuse to give to the national Parliament. We are to wait another week before we have further information about it! Am I to understand from the honourable gentleman that there are no telephones in Yugoslavia? I have never been there. I have been in States bordering it but I have never been to Yugoslavia. It seems to me a completely unacceptable excuse to give. So I say to the honourable gentleman: Why does not he as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and as the head of the Australian Government get on the telephone himself and say: 'We want this information'? 1 also understand that there is a suggestion that the Yugoslav Government is preparing to sponsor Australia to take part in a conference of non-aligned nations later this year. What is this supposed to be? We have heard nothing else about it. I invite the honourable gentleman to tell us about it this afternoon. I also invite him to consider the consequences of accepting sponsorship from a nation which has resorted to such infamy in the conduct of its affairs. There is a limit, surely, beyond which any government must say it is not prepared to go. 1 can understand the Prime Ministers eagerness, in which we all share, to bring some measure of concert into the conduct of affairs in this world and, in consequence, to reduce the prospects of another war being visited upon mankind. But if frankness is to be abandoned in reaching for that goal then the prospects of it, I submit, do in fact decline. So I say to the honourable gentleman that to advance the argument that dual nationality confers insuperable difficulties is not satisfying as far as Australian people are concerned. 
I ask the honourable gentleman to let us have a genuine display and to say to the Yugoslav Government, if an invitation has in fact been extended: 'In the circumstances 1 decline. I am the Prime Minister of a country that takes a firm but a quiet pride in the fact that its citizens when they go abroad are entitled to be protected and that they are entitled to look upon their activities as commanding respect'. In this case this country's reputation has been sullied. I ask the Prime 
Minister to see what he can do to bring some lustre back to it. 
 I congratulate the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  on the soothing qualities of his speech but I must confess to him unblushingly that he has not completely relaxed me. I begin on a mild note of protest and that is to this effect: I understand it is the wish of the 
Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to conclude the second reading of this Bill this afternoon and to complete all the Committee stage by early tomorrow afternoon. I think it is one of the most disgraceful parliamentary performances I have ever seen. Here is the honourable gentleman, the one-time rider of the white horse. Those of us who were here in years gone by can recapture the vision of the honourable gentleman sailing forth on the charger - Clyde, the one of courage, with lance out, railing against all suggestions that there should be any truncation of parliamentary debate. But now as a Minister of the Crown, the first substantial piece of legislation that he introduces is to be treated in this fashion. I was puzzled why, so I made some inquiries and I understand that the honourable gentleman is keen to get off to Geneva to see the sights. I do not want to upset him but he labours under a massive misapprehension if he believes for one moment that the people of Geneva are enthusiastic about the prospect of seeing him. 
I would have thought that when dealing with a measure of this nature we would have approached it with a spirit of leisure in terms of examining it critically and in a discriminating fashion as befits the national Parliament. But no, the honourable gentleman says: I want it put through in one day'. Putting it in homely language, we had to kid to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  because he was minded at one time to have the whole performance over and done with today. At least he responded to some of the milk of human kindness that flows so readily from me and he has abandoned that idea. 
My one regret about that is that there is not enough to pour over you. This is the fifty-fourth occasion since 1904 on which this Parliament has considered in one form or another the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Bill before us can best be described as a mixture of radical sentiment and dubious propositions expressed in poor English. This is what has been brought forth by the Minister for Labour. I am bound to tell the House that I now occupy the office once occupied by the Minister for Labour simpliciter - he is no longer called the Minister for Labour and National Service - and honourable members can use the term .A--':-:.-, how they like. I find in occupying that office that he has left behind him a collection of evil spirits and it would put to the test the combined efforts of all the bishops hi Christendom to get rid of them. When I went there, admittedly some of them fled and I think the ones that did move out have fled into this Bill. 
I hope that no person in this country is under the slightest misapprehension as to what this Bill is all about. This Bill is the first major step to dismantle the arbitration system in Australia, and the House should be indebted to the very thoughtful speech made by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  this afternoon in which he adverted to the drop by drop, bit by bit eroding of the whole of the Australian arbitration system. The Minister began his speech by saying that we are to have an inquiry into the whole of the conciliation and arbitration system in Australia. I said to myself: 'What a remarkably good idea*. However, I reminded myself that that was a proposal which I had made last year and nothing, of course, delights the heart more than to see the vindication of one's views by their acceptance by one's opponents. But the honourable gentleman, instead of stopping there and saying: 'I have announced this committee of inquiry', then proceeded to enunciate some - the emphasis should be on the word 'some' - of the proposals in his Bill. If the honourable gentleman were really serious he would have set up an inquiry and stopped at that. So one would be entitled to say to him that we suspect his intentions. Why does the honourable gentleman not await the report of this committee of inquiry. Let me ask the honourable gentleman: 'What if the committee of inquiry brings in recommendations with which the honourable gentleman does not agree, or vice versa?' What he is doing, in effect, is to frustrate in advance the work of a committee. 
Pre-empting, as the honourable gentleman says. If submissions are made to members of the committee about a particular proposal someone would say: 'Oh, you remember the Minister for Labour; he wiped that idea in his amending Bill in May last year - or whenever it may be - so there is not much point in putting that forward.* 
So one is left to draw the conclusion that the honourable gentleman's mind is made up, although some may take the view that that was not a very elaborate process. It seems to me to have all of the overtones of a farce to appoint this committee, to allow it to operate for 6 months, 12 months - nominate whatever time you like - and to squander public funds. Why does the honourable gentleman not pull this Bill out now and say: 'Look, I have had a change, of heart. It is perfectly true, Killen, that I am going off to Geneva, but / am impressed.' 
I assure you that he could swim there if I had my way. If the honourable gentleman were serious about the committee he would pull the Bill out now and say: 'We will await the word of this committee". I just want to say to the honourable gentleman, who has an old world charm and an elegance which is redolent of the most courtly days of the court of St James, that he. would do the cause of arbitration and conciliation and employer and employee, relations a signal service if he were to pull this Bill out and to say: 'We propose to await the report of the committee'. But as I say, one must draw the conclusion that his intentions are not well founded and he leaves to us all an entitlement to be. cynical about his motives. I would like to examine 3 heads which. I. have culled, not necessarily in" terms of importance but as 3 aspects of this Bill to examine with respect to the committee of inquiry and how genuine the honourable gentleman is. The first of those 3 heads is the observance of the law. This covers what are described frequently and contemptuously as sanctions. The second head is the role of the Arbitration Commission, although my duty in that sense has been rendered largely unnecessary by . the very able and thoughtful speech of the honourable member for Stirling. The third head is the function of conciliation in this country. 
I turn very briefly to the first head which embraces the principal proposals of the Bill which seek to dismantle all the sanction provisions. The Bill provides for various laws but it withdraws all provisions for the observance of those laws. I do not want to engage in any philosophical or metaphysical discussion with the Minister for Labour because I feel that one would reach a point of no return. But I want to say to the honourable gentleman that to establish a law and not provide any means for its observance is to give respectability to anarchy. There has never been a society in existence anywhere at any time that has established a law and not provided the means whereby the law is to be observed. As the great  Mr Burke  wrote: 'Men cannot enjoy the rights of a civil and uncivil state together*. 
That is perfectly true and those words of the 18th century have as much moment today as they had then. One cannot say: 'Well, I am going to enjoy such benefits, transient as they may be, of an uncivil state', and at the same time say: 'I want a well ordered and a civil state'. Some clever men may take the view that they can escape from that, but in the ultimate they will come back to the realisation that there is no escape to be found. 
We are not dealing in this matter with some mean quibble. We are dealing with what is a basic principle of the whole of our society. The Minister himself only a few months ago recognised just that point when in what was described as the 'mini-campaign', the honourable member for Hindmarsh, as he was felicitously known in those days, made a brilliant suggestion. He suggested that trade unionists should be fined $20 if they were involved in a strike. I think that one is entitled to ask the honourable gentleman what drew him to that conclusion 6 months ago; what forces gathered together and prevailed upon his cerebral processes to say that a $20 fine a day is an excellent idea.  His  leader at that time - now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - agreed with him. But had there not been a feast day I think his colleagues in the Labor Caucus would have resorted to cannibalism, and that was the end of the idea. 
Why does the honourable gentleman say: This is an excellent idea', and then abandon it? 1 have never seen anything quite so ridiculous as the occasion when I saw a bullock in a dam and a character get a rope, put the rope round the bullock's head, then round his own waist, get back on to the horse and dig his spurs into the horse. I have never seen anything quite as absurd. The honourable gentleman now wants to outdo that celebrated bullock in the dam. What if the committee comes along to him in 12 months time and says to him: 'Minister, you know you were right: your idea of establishing the $20 fine for each unionist for each day they are out on strike was a splendid idea'. What will the honourable gentleman say to the  chairman  of the committee as they sit over lunch discussing that proposal? I just mention this because this is precisely the position in which the Minister puts himself today. 
Let me turn to the second consideration that I have invited the House to look at - that is, the role of the Arbitration Commission. 
This is a role which is to be largely truncated; it is a role which compared with its previous role is a diminishing one. Who is the author of this great idea? It is the Minister for Labour. What this proposal does under clause 17, which amends section 28 (2) - or if I could put it in shorthand, amends section 28 - is to provide for a single Commissioner to approve of consent agreements. There is no means to secure a review of those agreements unless the Commissioner forms the opinion that there is to be a major detriment to the public interest. A little further on one finds that the Commissioners in many instances can be people of quite unstated qualifications. Put in another way, this amounts to the introduction of collective bargaining by the back door. 
I say to my honourable friend that I am quite prepared to listen to an argument on the merits of collective bargaining, but I still maintain my attitude that there is splendid virtue in frankness. Why does not the Minister say in this instance: 'We propose to introduce substantially in one area of Australian economic activity collective bargaining'. But again I am indebted, and the House should be indebted, to the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  for pointing this out to us. This is what it is all about. One Commissioner with unstated qualification can approve of a consent agreement and unless he forms the opinion that there is a major detriment to the public interest it is not to be reviewed and it cannot be reviewed by the Full Bench of the Commission. The Commission may form the conclusion upon the most objective of criteria that the public interest is plainly involved but there is absolutely nothing that the Full Bench can do to bring the matter before it. In contrast to this, in the same provision which the Minister for Labour proposes, if the commissioner is in some doubt as to whether the members of the unions are in favour of the agreement he can approach the Registrar and secure a ballot. An incredible situation arises in which there is an appeal from his doubt but there cannot be an appeal from his error. But the author of this, the Minister for Labour who wants to go off to Geneva - the tourist at large- 
To Sweden then. I suppose he can stir up goodwill there just as well as he can here - and he has not been much of a success. Let us assume that the  chairman  of this committee of inquiry has lunch with the Minister for Labour and says: 'You know,  Mr Minister,  you were wrong. You should have provided means whereby there was an appeal to the Full Bench from a consent order given by a single Commissioner. You should have made that provision'. Nobody seriously suggests that the Minister will introduce an amendment to that end. He has, quite effectively, stultified and frustrated, in advance, all of the work of the committee of inquiry. 
I  turn to a further point which, of necessity, must be my last point.  I  refer to the function of the conciliator. The Minister has rejected the suggestion that if a conciliator operates on his own, people who are in argument with one another will be disposed to go before him and put all their cards on the table. The Minister rejects that idea. He has had precious little to do with hard negotiation if he advances to the House that if  2  people in conflict with each other know that the man with whom they are discussing the issue ultimately will abandon one hat - the hat of the conciliator - and put on the hat of the arbitrator they will never be as forthcoming as they are when they know they can deal, in complete honesty and complete frankness, with one man carrying out one function. 
The late  Dr Evatt  recognised this in 1956 when he put down a long, compendious amendment to a Bill amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Act contains a provision, written in impeccable English - clear as a bell - for conciliation. Who was one of the honourable gentlemen who voted for the provision on that occasion? It was the Minister for Labour, who now comes into this House and says: 'We must abandon the good sense of experience. We must bow to the doctrinaire demand of the movement' - that is the Labor movement - 'as  I  see it'. The honourable gent is wrong. What would happen if the  chairman  of the committee of inquiry approached the Minister in  12  months time and said: 'You were wrong'.  I  appeal to the Minister again.  I  suppose it is an appeal which will be a splendid exercise in futility, but indulge in it  I  will.  I  appeal to the Minister, before he goes on his way to see the sights of Geneva and Sweden, to withdraw this Bill and give the Parliament and the people of the nation an opportunity to examine in detail the comprehensive report of a committee of inquiry. 
I want to ask the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  whether he would mind doing me a favour. The Minister has used a word in the proposed amendment to clause 3 which, with very great respect and diffidence, I suggest is simply not available in the English language - the word 'fullest'. The Minister has asked for the 'fullest participation by members'. I say to the honourable gentleman that if a receptacle, a Parliament, a person or, indeed, participation is full, it cannot be transported beyond that state; it is a finite state. I am not quibbling. It is one thing to put persiflage into a statute; it is another thing to put in ideas which I rate as being curious. But, please, why must we suffer inelegant language? Would the Minister mind removing the word 'fullest' and substituting the words the complete participation by members'? I do not think this will in any way injure the Bill and, with great respect, it would make for a more elegant arrangement of words. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 - (Parts) 
This Committee is now invited to consider a clause which goes to one of the most fundamental aspects of the Bill, namely, the division of the arbitral and conciliatory functions involved in the discharge of the role of a conciliation commissioner.I am sorry that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is not in the chamber. No doubt he is preparing for his jaunt abroad, which is one of the reasons why he is rushing this Bill through the Parliament. It is a thundering disgrace that the national Parliament should be called upon to consider such a complicated measure in this fashion. The Minister does not even do the Committee the courtesy- 
At long last he has arrived - Elijah come back to his own. The Minister is literally hung up on this issue. He wants to insist that there is a splendid sense of virtue in having one person discharging the functions both of a conciliation commissioner and, ultimately, if need be, of an arbitrator. I do not know why the Minister has this sense of obstinacy on this crucial matter. 
My honourable friend should not be so charitable and generous because to describe the Minister for Labour as quaint  seems to  me to be a massive misunderstatement of his position. If the Minister looks at what  a  former Leader of the Aus tralian Labor Party, the late  Dr Evatt,  decided upon this issue of conciliation and arbitration he will find that  Dr Evatt  took the position that if a person is to be a conciliator he should fulfil that role and should not be called upon to engage in arbitral functions. I suggest that the Minister for Labour should try to shed some of his obstinacy; we would then warm to him a little. As things are at present we look upon him as an individual who literally has come from either the North Pole or the South Pole - he is hard to warm to. 
I invite the Minister to consider what he is doing. The supreme function in this sphere is that of a conciliator. A person who has the skills of a conciliator can do far more to ensure the sweet running of an industrial organisation, however it may be expressed or however it may be shown up, than any other person. Not many people have the skills of a good conciliator. If 2 parties to a dispute appear before a man who is sitting as a conciliation commissioner and they realise that at some point of time he will take off the hat of commissioner and put on the hat of an arbitrator, to that extent they will be reluctant to place all their attitudes before him. I do not know why the Minister does not give this bifurcation of the 2 functions a run. Will it hurt him? Will it hurt his sense of vanity? I do not know why he is so obstinate about this. Why does he not allow this to operate, say for the next 12 months, to see how it works? I invite the Minister to give any illustration of where, since amendments were made to the provision, it has fallen down. I must confess that I know of no cases where it has fallen down. 
Apart from the honourable gentleman's speciality in being associated with one trade union I have probably had far more to do with the trade union movement than has the honourable member who interjects, and I can assure him that this has been not with tame cat unions. As I said, the Minister has a complete hang up about separating the functions of conciliator and of arbitrator. I think a real responsibility falls upon the Minister to ensure that he gives to the Committee an explanation why he is so persistent with respect to this clause. 
In my 18 years in this Parliament  I  have suffered a variety of insults but  I  am bound to confess that for the first lime in my life  I  am upset.  I  am upset that  I  should be confused by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  with himself. I  thought the honourable gentleman made out a perfect argument for the case that  I  was putting, that a clear distinction should be drawn between a man discharging the role of conciliator and a man acting as arbitrator. I would not like the honourable member to think that  I  whistled up a curious idea while walking across the carpet from the door to my seat simply, as the honourable gentleman said, to fill in a few moments because my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was prevented by an unhappy gathering of facts from being here. But he is here now. I  have long held the view that  I  have put and 1 am not alone in having held it. The honourable member for Phillip surely will not say that the former right honourable member for Barton was seized with a curious idea.  T  am referring to  Dr Evatt  who in 1956 stood at the table near the dispatch box and moved an amendment which included this provision: 
The making of special provisions, strengthening the processes of conciliation, including the appointment of additional commissioners charged exclusively with the function of mediation. 
The key word is 'exclusive'.  I  am delighted that the honourable member for Phillip agrees with me.  I  will not argue again as  I  have argued in years gone by. The grave difficulty in any industrial dispute occurs when the parties say: 'We are at loggerheads and this situation must involve the discipline of an arbitrator.' That is where a skilled negotiator, mediator and conciliator is priceless beyond all description in getting the 2 parties together and saying to them: 'Look, gentlemen, you have differences.  I  want to assist you to negotiate them.'  I  agree with the honourable member for Phillip that there is no doctrinaire attitude in this debate save that injected by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is so overcome by the prospect of his visit to Geneva that he seems to be beyond himself. I  have never heard an employer organisation thunder about this point.  I  have never heard anyone in the trade union movement complain about the attitude that if you can get a sound conciliator he is the man who can achieve a great deal in this field. 
I  am worried because the Government is seeking to abandon recognition of the true value of a conciliator.  I  must confess, for all of my manifest imperfections, that 1 am not persuaded to the view that you are correct merely because one or other of the parties would say: 'We object to your now sitting as an arbitrator'. My complaint is simply that you do not put the proper emphasis upon the role of a conciliator.  I  hold strongly to the view that if the parties to a dispute realise that a man can sit as an arbitrator - albeit they may say that they do not want him to sit as an arbitrator - they will not be as forthcoming as when they know that they can put all their cards on the table. That has been my experience. 1 have not moved in the crepe de Chine industrial circles in which the honourable member for Phillip has moved. Mine has been but a humble pursuit, but  I  have dealt with some rather rugged trade union leaders.  I  am delighted to have had their confidence. 
 I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Burke. 
I will put you at risk in that count. I find myself in agreement to this extent, that there would be some virtue in looking at what the clause is all about. Therefore, I am disposed to read the principal provision in the clause, lt is to this effect: Thai a person being an officer, delegate or member of an organisation, has done, or proposes to do, an act or thing, in an industrial establishment or elsewhere, for the purposes of furthering o:protecting the industrial interests of the organisation or of its members, being an act or thing done within the limits of authority expressly or impliedly conferred on him by the organisation. What goes before that is this: An employer shall not dismiss an employee 
.' That is the provision. 1 just want to say to the Minister for Labour: Who on earth determines whether those provisions are being met? Who on earth.  Mr Minister,  determines what is for the purpose of furthering or protecting the industrial interests of the organisation or of its members? Take the case of a factory. Some people ma&gt; gather together to hold a stop-work meeting for the purpose of listening to the Minister. One would really need to put the pressure on to convince me that to Listen to the honourable gentleman would be for the purpose o furthering or protecting their industrial interests. Take the case of a shearing shed involving the Australian Workers Union, although I do not think that  Mr Edgar  Williams would bend over backwards to arrange a meeting for the 
Minister to speak at. But imagine that gathering. The members are told by some individual: Everybody out. Clyde is arriving.' One can imagine the hushed scene and the honourable gentleman arriving at, shall we say, a shearing shed back of Bourke or somewhere. Does the Minister seriously say that that gathering would be for the purpose of furthering or protecting the industrial interests of the organisation? In a few words what this provision amounts to is this: lt is for the purpose of making political strikes legal. That is the position that the Minister is in. 
The second aspect about this clause is that the onus of proof is put on the person who is charged. J say to the Minister for Labour that I have some degree of affection for him, but because of the way he is behaving at the moment it is waning pretty quickly. I hope that if I ever hear the honourable gentleman mention 'onus of proof again the words will choke in his throat. This is what the honourable gentleman proposes to do under clause 6 (b), which is to be a part of section 5 of the Act. This provision will make it an offence if an employer simply tries to persuade an employee not to take part in a political strike which it is argued is in furtherance of an industrial interest. If an employer says to a man: 'Look, old chap, if you want to go about your business with this hair brained scheme and stop the factory for half an hour for the purpose of listening to the Minister for Labour - that is. the honourable member for Hindmarsh - I must inform you that you had better go right along and collect your pay and get out', ff the employer does that he commits an offence against the Act. What happens then? He is charged. 
He is liable to a penally of $400. Where does the onus rest in this case? 
Yes. A person would need more than S400 to listen to the Minister; he would need a knighthood given by a Labor government. Under clause 6 the onus is put upon the employer to prove his defence. The employer has to satisfy the court. Here he is, this great defender of Magna Carta, the one who stood up in this place year after year talking ad nauseam about the onus of proof. But in this legislation the onus is put on the employer. Why should the onus of proof not rest upon a person to satisfy the court that the stoppage was for the purpose of a legitimate industrial dispute or, indeed, for furthering or protecting legitimate industrial interests? In this legislation the Minister makes a provision for the purpose of legitimising all political strikes in the future. Then he turns around and caricatures the substantial basis of our system of jurisprudence that puts the onus of proof on the person who makes the charge. No clause in this Bill is more revealing of the Minister's philosophy towards the whole industrial movement in this country or indeed of his philosophy towards the whole economic base in this country than this clause. This is a contemptible provision. It deserves to be thrown out. 
The Minister is sitting at the table reading a newspaper. It is all very fine. I do not know what he is reading about. The honourable gentleman does not even pay the Committee the courtesy of listening to a debate on a clause. He chuckles away: i am on my way to Geneva'. That is all that is on the honourable gentleman's mind. It is said about the Minister that he is mean. I'll say he is mean! The honourable gentleman is so mean that he would stand outside the office of the RegistrarGeneral for births and deaths on a wet winter's night merely to check up on the age of a woman. I say to the honourable gentleman: This is a totally irresponsible provision to put in a statute of the Commonwealth Parliament. I know he is keen to get to Geneva, but if this is the sort of provision he wants to put down, the sooner he goes the better. 
I want to draw the Committee's attention to the content of clause 17, which is of far-reaching importance. By way of illustrating its importance I state that the present provision of section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides that if there is a consent agreement between 2 parties-- 
My question, which 1 direct to the Prime Minister, concerns the Statute of Westminster. I ask the honourable gentleman: Is it correct that the proposal to request the United Kingdom Parliament to legislate to abolish appeals from the Australian States to the Privy Council is based upon a desire to remove all remaining vestiges of colonialism and, further, to give expression to the contemporary mood for Australian nationalism? If that is the case, would the honourable gen tleman accept an invitation to consider placing in the requesting Bill to the Imperial Parliament a further request that the Statute of Westminster be amended so that any further appeals to the legislative authority of the United Kingdom Parliament will be excluded? 
I will take only half a minute of the Committee's time for the express purpose of congratulating the Minister for Labour upon his massive sense of modesty. One of the amendments proposed by clause 50 of the Bill concerns the situation where 2 candidates submit nominations for a position in a union and one dies before the poll is held. The amendment proposes that nominations will be called afresh. The Minister, because of this very gracious sense of modesty, has refrained from telling us of his own very bitter personal experience. This distressed my friend no end when he was placed in that circumstance and became the State secretary of the Australian Workers Union in South Australia. When his opponent for that position died the honourable gentleman took the position by default, and from that day to this it has been a source of acute anxiety to him. Today when he indicated in his typical urbane gentle way that he was prepared to concede that there was merit in this proposal, it brought to an end a long period of agony for the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who is now the Minister for Labour. It is because of that possessing sense of modesty that 1 thought 1 must at least acknowledge on his behalf what has happened. 
I second the motion. I do so very briefly. As all honourable members know, harshness of language upsets me and of course I eschew it. On this occasion I shun it instinctively and happily I find myself in that position. While I may admire and agree with the substance of the language used by my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  happily I have not had it thrust upon me to resort to any ascerbity of expression. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is about to go abroad. He is going to Geneva. If you close your eyes for a moment you can almost see the soft snow falling on the high hills within sight of Geneva. But as assuredly as the snow is falling there, a sense of remorse has swept over the Minister for Labour. One would never have imagined that he was particularly susceptible to the intrusion of remorse. But on this occasion he has fallen ready prey to its ravages and the honourable gentleman this afternoon is absolutely consumed with a sense of remorse. He has found himself put in a position where he arranged for the Bill to be pushed through this House with a haste that one can only describe as being thoroughly indelicate. Honourable members will notice the softness of the language for which I have a preference. This has worried the honourable gentleman and as I have looked at him in the last half hour that remorse is starting to manifest itself in that gracious charming countenance of his. I think that the Minister for Labour would welcome a recommittal of this Bill. I think that he has a decided wish- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! No point of order is involved. 
I did not know until this moment that the honourable member for Banks was a quarry proprietor. Plainly the Minister for Labour has been greatly troubled by the circumstance in which he has found himself. But I am sure that it is our ready wish and our clear anxiety to try to help him. Here is a man seeking redemption for what he has done in the course of the last 2 days. Never before in the whole history of federation has there been put through this House with such indelicate haste a measure of this nature. The honourable member seeks redemption. Remorse consumes him. It sweeps over him assuredly as the gentle snow flakes sweep over the alps. Surely we must heed the instinct for charity to try to help him, to rescue, to succour and to save him. If the Minister has now come to the realisation that a leisurely approach is needed to consider the significance of this Bill - if that is his wish - I think we should do everything possible to accommodate him. 
I support the Bill. If need be I will vote for it and I assure the House that I will have no difficulty in walking across the chamber to vote for it, or indeed, getting across by any other means. In the conduct of human affairs it is a matter of regret that obstinacy plays a dominant part. Of course, obstinacy has at its disposal a number of highly meretricious elements. It is not in the belief that I have succumbed to those elements that I say without ambiguity that I propose to support the Bill. One of the distinctive features about the majority of people who during the long history of this legislation have criticised it is that they share one thing in common; that is, whereas argument has been advanced as to why this matter should be resolved, all that one hears as to why it should not be resolved is a gathering of argument which does disservice to the name of argument by so describing it. 
I do not indulge myself in any luxury with respect to any remarks that have been made this afternoon, no matter how close in juxtaposition to my remarks they may be; but I observe that I find the temptation hard to resist, although resist it I will. This year in Geneva there will be a law of the sea conference. I suppose that to the majority of us it will be just another international gathering. To people with a nodding acquaintance with the agenda it will be a conference concerned with the law of the sea seeking to find a measure of definition. I do not believe that it is gilding the lily to describe this conference on the law of the sea as the most crucial conference of the 20th century. Honourable gentlemen who sit in this House and who have been in previous parliaments probably know far better than I do the imperfections that I possess. Probably they will forgive me and understand when I say that if there is one determination that boils in my being it is a sense of resolution to see that some public order comes into the conduct of affairs in this world; or those who live in this world will perish. That is not dewy eyed sentimentality. It is not a curious notion sponsored by an involvement with an organisation that may have some sentimental and humanitarian views. Surely to heavens this world is heartily fed up with conflict. Ti not, there is neither health in it nor hope for it. The relevance of this I will make clear in just a moment . 
Five-sevenths of the world in which we live is made up of oceans. It is the one last great frontier that man has yet to conquer. To say that it is not within touch of that achievement is completely to misunderstand the position. The tumble of events of the last IS years can be described only as a cataract in terms of achievement. Those people who attended the last great conference on the law of the sea in Geneva in 1958 and hammered out a code in 4 conventions on the sea thought that they had reached the end mark. One has only to look at Article 1 of the Geneva Convention dealing with the continental shelf to see the stark shuddering truth of that. The continental shelf, described as a geographical and geological phenomenon of the land extension out under the sea was regarded by those people in 1958 as being exploitable merely to the 200 metre mark. There is a curious fuzz of language following on which states, in effect, that if you can exploit beyond that point you may have it. 
This is the crucial matter that faces the world today. The achievements and persistence of man today take him way beyond that point. He has at his ready disposal, certainly to be compacted, measured and explained in terms of a few years, the means to exploit in a fashion the vast resources of the sea probably beyond the dream even of Jules Verne. What is the relevance to this country? What is the relevance in terms of those who say that we are not inhibited with respect to the external affairs power? I recall vividly the presentation of some views on the history of the external affairs power that were not received with rapture in some places. But I put temptation to one side. 
The simple fact of the matter remains that we have here in Australia, although as yet completely undefined, a vast continental shelf. We have heard in Australia those who preside over some of our State parliaments contend with a measure of unhesitancy that I find completely overwhelming that it belongs to us. I do not want to resort to harsh and pejorative language. It is too serious a matter, but I will not see imperilled to the least extent the name of this nation, its integrity, or indeed the welfare of its people because of the posturing of any State Premier or, indeed, the  president  of any political party. This transcends it and if that spirit is unwelcome in the Parliament of the nation I hope I will at least be able to find the strength to walk out of it. 
Take New Guinea, for example. There is an unbroken continental shelf between New Guinea and Australia - the State of Queensland. The Premier of Queensland has said that shelf belongs to Queensland. This is not a matter of argument; it is a matter of public record. The same view is held by some members in the State of Western Australia. I want to take the assumption that they are right and that it does belong to them. What is their position with respect to an independent New Guinea? The 1958 Geneva Convention provides that if parties to the Convention are having an argument with respect to a continental shelf, they may resort as the solution of their argument to the median line - simply the centre line. That is the basis of their negotiation. But a few years ago, the International Court of Justice in the great North Sea Continental Shelf case held that the median line was not a customary rule of international law. Therefore, if a nation is not a party to the Geneva Conventions as they now stand, it cannot use the median line with respect to international law. This is the relevance of the external affairs powers and the need to decide it, because if by chance the Premier of Queensland is right he cannot, because his State possesses no international personality, argue his own case and he cannot adopt the simplistic method of saying: T invite an independent New Guinea to agree with me to draw a median line'. An independent New Guinea by that time could well have studded around it powerfully backed international consortiums. 
I am horrified when I think of the incredible fuss we have had with respect to the Torres Strait islanders. Here we are dealing not merely with the future of the lives of the people and their welfare and happiness; we are dealing with the welfare of generations to come. I beg of this House and the people of this country that they do not shrug off the importance of this great issue. One might have rows over the territorial sea. However, the courts should be resorted to wherever possible, not that I seek to encourage litigation merely for its own sake. But we cannot solve these problems by resorting to caprice, to force or to posturing. Hard argument has never hurt any person and the courts are there for that purpose - to listen and to respond and to give their adjudication. This is the central issue in regard to the continental shelf and I would hope that we can come to that simple realisation. 
In regard to the international community, at last count there were, I mink, 135 countries of the world, 109 of which have some contiguity with the sea and all of which in one form or another have a continental shelf. One of the dominant proposals to come before the next Law of the Sea conference is the proposal to decide whether or not the continental shelf in terms of explorability should be given to the coastal state up to the 200 metre mark, and the area from the 200 metre mark out to the edge of the continental margin to be operated on the basis of an international trusteeship, 50 per cent to go to underdeveloped countries and 50 per cent to the coastal state, 'state' in that context being used in terms of international law. There are many minds in this world which are immensely attracted to that proposal in terms of showing a tangible expression of the needs of international countries which are in fact underdeveloped. 
I take the assumption again that the Premier of Queensland is correct. Is he going to agree to an international regime so seeking to order mining on the continental shelf? One has only to posit the argument to see the exquisite absurdity of it. That is the position with respect to the external affairs powers as I see it and the urgency as I see it to have the matter resolved. I take the other assumption just in passing. Here, I am at one with my friend, the right honorable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  If it should be held that sovereignty with respect to the continental shelf does not reside with the Commonwealth, there would be a powerful case to be put before the Australian people. 
I turn from that to the recent move by the State Premiers to go to London but I observe in passing that to compare the Australian federal system in this context with the American federal system is to misunderstand completely the 2 separate systems of federation. I made the charge - I did it, I hope, with a sense of generosity and charity - that the last Government purported with respect to Indonesia to hand over part of the State of Western Australia to Indonesia. I made that statement on the basis that the assumptions of the Premiers were right. If they were right, that is what happened and the last Government was in conflict with section 123 of our Constitution because we cannot alter the boundary of a State without a Bill of a parliament and a referendum of those living in the State. 
I turn to the move of the Premiers to go to London. It is perfectly true that the States of Australia can petition the Privy Council to give what amounts in effect to an advisory opinion or a declaration. That this is not a matter of mere theory is shown by the Boundary case of 1884 when 2 Canadian provinces, Manitoba and Ontario petitioned the Privy Council and the Privy Council referred the petition to the Judicial Committee which in turn reported back to the Privy Council and there the matter was. The great case with respect to the territorial sea in our law is the case of R v. Keyn of 1876. In that case, 13 judges in a majority sitting in the Court of Crown Cases Reserve held that the realm of England finished at the low water mark. 
What is the position of the State Premiers today? Taking the assumption that the Privy Council accepts their petition and refers it to the Judicial Committee of that body, that body would be faced with overthrowing Keyn's case. I have yet to hear any State Premier say: 'We are going off to the Privy Council and if it should happen to be against us we will accept its decision'. I indulge myself in this luxury to this extent: If by some chance, Keyn's case were to be ignored and swept to one side, it would be to throw a multitude of law into a state of utter bewilderment. Therefore, I would invite the Premiers to say that, even though they are attracted to this method of deciding the matter, they will at least abide by the adjudication. 
But another curious matter comes into this. The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council has always observed the custom of hearing the other side. The Commonwealth would be a party to any approach and possibly it would be that our colleague,  Senator Murphy,  would have to leave The Hague and go to London. He may not be greatly enraptured with that prospect. But would it be seriously suggested that, at this time in our history, we should on this matter accept the jurisdiction of the Privy Council? The High Court of Australia, as the convention debates show, was appointed just for this purpose - to decide these issues, to say where the matter rests. Those who say: Of course, the States are not too sure that they will get a fair deal in the High Court', do a great disservice to the traditions of this country. In my experience I have never known any judge who consciously would put himself in the position of abandoning the disciplines of his profession, seeking to sully the ermine that he wears and putting his integrity in jeopardy. Those who are touched by the judicial instinct - I do not use 'touched' in any uncommon sense - and those who understand it realise that these are the great surviving virtues of many centuries of struggle. I come back to where I began. I support this Bill. I will vote for it, and nothing in years will give me more pleasure than so doing. 
We are all entitled on occasions to indulge in flights of fancy and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  has had his fling this afternoon. I should have thought, speaking for myself, that it was fancy in the extreme when he declared that the people of Australia have nothing to be frightened of from the Labor Government. I do not want to inflict a lesson in history upon the honourable gentleman but that argument would have been hard to sell in 1947 when the cry went out to nationalise the banks. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  instinctively I shy away from saying anything that is hurtful or upsetting to people and, as a consequence, I am sorry that I cannot agree with the honourable member for Lilley that this is simply a contest between Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. It is to do the Queen's English a singular form of violence to read this Bill and then to conclude that all that it concerns is a conflict between TAA and Ansett Transport Industries. A more superficial reading of a Bill would be impossible to make. 
I am grateful to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his constant regard for me, on a personal basis. When I took to him a copy of the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party he wrote in it an inscription. I will spare him the embarrassment of reading what is in it but I indulge myself to the extent of saying that it is couched in felicitous language. I think it adds little to the authenticity of the document when I say that the inscription was written by none other than the Prime Minister of Australia who leads the Labor Government. The relevance of that is simply this: The prime objective of the Government, which my honourable friend leads and of which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is a distinguished member, is democratic socialisation. That, in a word, is the ultimate aim and this Bill, far from being a conflict between 2 airline operators, is the first significant expression of the Government's basic socialist belief. I do not condemn honourable members opposite who hold those beliefs and who expound them but what I do confess to is a mild form of irritation that they do not do so boldly. 
I know that there are those valient souls, many of whom support my side of politics albeit fitfully, who say: 'Well, of course, the Constitution is against any form of socialisation.' I have heard the Prime Minister himself say words to this effect: 'There is section 92 of the Constitution - a barrier over which the socialist cannot clamber.' Of course, that simply is not true and the Bill says in the most explicit of terms that that is not the case. This is the first significant foray by the new socialist Government into the world of commerce. 
Ooh, says the Minister for Transport. I must say to him that I owe him an apology. I never thought for one moment that he had a sense of humour, let alone a robust sense of humour, until I listened to his speech when he said: T need not go into the Bill in any detail.' I say to the honourable gentleman that he made a grand imperial job of not going into the Bill in any detail. So, if people want to find out what is in the Bill they should look at the Bill. To read the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport and then to imagine that they will apprehend from that an understanding of what the Bill is all about, would be like look ing for Alice in Wonderland in a meeting of the Labor Party Caucus, and I do not think that is quite on. The Australian National Airlines Act was first introduced in 1945. The then Minister for Civil Aviation was the late  Mr Drakeford  and he had this to say - these are the words he actually used:  in introducing this measure: for the nationalisation of airlines. 
He went on to propound his argument. I mention that because there was a vigorous display of frankness by a Labor Minister in introducing this measure for the nationalisation of airlines. But in this instance all we hear from the Minister sitting at the table is: I need not go into the Bill in any detail'. Was it modesty that swept over the honourable gentleman? Does that draw him back from being frank with this House and the country? If it is modesty I congratulate the Minister on having added another virtue to those that now adorn him. 
After  Mr Drakeford  introduced the Bill there was one of the epic struggles in the courts as to whether there could be one government-run airline in the country or otherwise. The socialists lost out and they did not take the loss with any great sense of grace. 
If the Minister for Education wants to come into the debate, I would welcome his intrusion rather than his sitting on the sideline making observations which are desperately academic and highly irrelevant and for the most part grossly inaccurate. This Bill is an emphatic expression that the socialists have not lied down - and I use 'lied' not in its vulgar sense but in its technical sense, as to whether you are horizontal or perpendicular. This is the first major attempt by my friends opposite to show that they are not as overwhelmed, that they have not been put out of business, to the same extent that many people thought was the case. 
The honourable member for Lilley and the Minister himself have said: 'Well, TAA is a first rate airline operator'. That is not under challenge. I do not know any honourable gentleman on the Opposition side who contends that for one moment. It has been a superbly run airline staffed by people with a sense of vocation for their industry. That is not the question. The question is: To what extent is the Government prepared to branch out into a great field of operation? This Bill seeks to test to the ultimate the corporations power of the Commonwealth. They may be wrong but even if they fail on this occasion they will know precisely to what extent they may go in order to set up structure after structure after structure of government run enterprises. Never before, or rarely, have I seen put in a Bill where they propose to get their head of power from. I invite the country to look at clause 6 which deals with a reference of power before or after the commencement of a particular sub-section. Since when is a government, no matter what its political kidney may be, entitled to assume that there will be a reference of power made to it either by the people or by the State? No government and no parliament should seek to legislate in anticipation. It could well be that the other 4 States which have not been attracted to the idea of making a referral would say: 'No, we will have nothing at all to do with it'. But here, the honourable gentleman, led by the Minister for Transport, is proceeding on the basis that this power will be referred to this Parliament. 
My friend the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  spoke earlier this afternoon about the advantages which are to be conferred upon this enterprise. One cannot, you know, simply describe it as TransAustralia Airlines from now on because, if this power is a valid use of power, TAA is put in a position where it can branch into any form of activity at all. We could even have established the Charlie Jones health camps run by that sympathetic PT instructor, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James). 
No doubt the honourable member for Bowman would be the person who would do the ringing of the bell first thing in the morning. 
That may well be the case. The simple truth is that under this Bill, if it is passed into law, this body, the commission, will have passed through some metamorphosis and become something else - will be able to enter into any form of business. Is that seriously disputed? It will be able to form any form of company. Is that disputed? It is all very fine for the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  or any of his colleagues to say: 'Ah, that is not what we intended'. It is not what they intended that counts. What counts is the language used in this Bill. After all, in the years to come we may not have such gentle, moderate-thinking people as the Minister for Transport. Who knows, we may have some of the wild men who come out of the West and seek to administer this Bill in a way that would bring fright to the Australian people. 
Under this Bill the Commission, or whatever it may be called, will be able to purchase or acquire any form of shares. Is that contested? Under this Bill the Commission would have access to a completely unstated amount of capital. Is that contested? Also, this capital will be at an unspecified rate of interest. There is nothing in the Bill to say that it has to be at bond interest or at the prevailing bank interest rates or due competitive interest rates or anything of the sort. When the honourable member for Lilley asks the question rhetorically: 'I did not know that honourable gentlemen opposite were worried about competition', of course, he is asking a question which is perfect in its sense of absurdity. It is not competition that we complain about. What we complain about is the possibility of manifestly unfair competition. What other transport body in Australia, be it Ansett or any other body, can have access to capital in unspecified quantities and at unspecified rates of interest? If honourable gentlemen opposite, know what that body is, and possibly they may be aroused from their massive silence to say what it is. 
-I would be grateful if at long last the Minister will get on his feet and give us the benefit, dubious as it may be, of his view on this Bill. 
As the honourable member for Gippsland pointed out also this afternoon, the other advantage to be thrust upon this body is that it will be put in a trading position where it will pay no State transport taxes of any description. What other body in Australia is put in that position of advantage of not having to pay road tax or stamp tax? If this body goes into the hotel business no obligation will be thrust upon it to pay any licensing fee. The contentions which I make are not a matter which stem from the prejudice of partisan politics. I submit that the points I am raising can be seen by looking at the Bill itself. Simple English is used in clause 5 and surely its meaning is clear. This clause provides that under proposed section 19 (1), the Commission can enter into any form of transport partly by air and partly by land between prescribed places. And it is not limited in terms of saying it must be closely connected with an airline. 
If honourable gentlemen opposite want to be upstanding about this and sweep themselves to the sense of virtue where they already regard themselves as having been entrenched, why do they not put in these provisions in matters closely allied or connected with air transport? I would have thought that would not be imposing too great a strain upon them. Another provision in the same proposed subsection of the Act is 'land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided' for the Commonwealth and authorities of the Commonwealth. What is the limit to that? Under this provision any engineering work could be established anywhere in Australia not for the purposes of servicing an airline operator but for the purposes of servicing the Commonwealth. It could service any department of state whatsoever. If my honourable friends opposite hold the views they have expressed I do not object to their holding them, but what I do object to is the reticence they have in stating their views so that we and the people of Australia may understand what they are about. 
The second provision to which I refer is the proposed section 19e. It provides: 
The Commission may . . establish, maintain and operate, or make arrangements with other persons for or in connexion with the establishment, maintenance and operation of, hotels- 
That is not for the purpose of being closely connected with airline operations. But under the power provided in this proposed new section a hotel could be established at Cunnamulla for the purpose of providing a country retreat for members of the Labor Caucus. The term 'recreation' you will agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is most expansive. Some of us indulge in various forms of recreation which may not always be looked upon with admiration by others; it is all a matter of taste. But in the Bill we have this generic term 'recreation*. 
Under this provision Harry Miller could be put out of business. Is that the intention of the Minister for Transport? It is to no avail him getting up and indulging in banalities and saying that this is not what the Government intends. The intention of a Bill is to be gleaned from the 4 corners of the Bill. I have stated the language which is used in the Bill. Again, what is meant by 'entertainment'? 
The honourable gentleman, of course, has most artistic and cultural instincts which he reveals in a most becoming fashion. But I am not quite so sure that this would always be the case with what the authors of this Bill propose. Under this Bill the casino in Hobart could be taken over some time in the future. Some people take the view that horse racing is a form of recreation. The Brisbane Amateur Turf Club could be taken over under the heading of providing recreation and entertainment. 
The Bill goes on to refer to 'services or facilities'. It is a test for the Minister for Transport to specify in the Bill that all of these services and provisions are to be closely allied with the air transport industry. That is a simple request to make. It does not ask the honourable gentleman to do very much. In one blow he could cut back all of the criticism that is made of this measure. The honourable gentleman should not think for one moment that it is only Ansett Transport Industries that may have some concern with this Bill. There are hundreds of motels which have been established throughout Australia and on current indications they are not making much of a do of it. Under this Bill the Commission at some time in the future would be able to exacerbate whatever economic distress those motels may be afflicted with. 
Just in passing, I say to the Minister, really and truly, of all the oddities to be put into a Bill the preposition 'if is the greatest. I refer to the words 'if Papua New Guinea becomes an independent country'. Would the honourable gentleman be prepared to address a mass rally at Port Moresby or in the Highlands of Papua New Guinea and say: 'I have just written into a statute of the Australian Parliament the words: "if Papua New Guinea becomes an independent country".' This wording is an insult to the whole independence movement of Papua New Guinea. The honourable gentleman would be well advised to get rid of it. 
I warn this House and I warn the country that this Bill is the first major foray by the new socialist Government to test the extent of the Corporation's power. This is the first major expression to see that the basic political belief which the Government holds, is given expression to. If the Minister wants to have a quarrel about that he can have the quarrel here in the Parliament. I can assure him that when the fighting starts outside he will know that he is being punched. 

 - Mr Speaker, I address a question to you. My question concerns the position of a journalist by the name of B. M. Everingham and I refer, without offence, to what I might describe as the Everingham affair. I ask: Will you accept my assurance that in no way do I seek to adjudicate upon any matter involving  Mr Everingham?  I further ask: Have charges been laid against  Mr Everingham  and was he given an opportunity to reply to those charges before his Press gallery pass was withdrawn? As representatives of the Gallery are in the Gallery by your leave and the leave of this House, I ask you: If no charges have been made against  Mr Everingham  will charges be laid against him in writing and will an opportunity be given to him to speak to them? 
I do not wish to upset my friend, the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  but I indulge myself to the extent of saying that I do not think he had his heart in his argument or, if I may put it another way, in an anatomical sense I think he put his foot in the argument. The best test of that is to be drawn from the honourable gentleman's observations about the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. He thundered: 'Who is it who has to look after all the rating responsibilities, the drains, the streets, the hedges, the roads and all the preponderence of local government matters? This does not happen in New South Wales'. That is precisely the effect of the analogy which the honourable gentleman drew. It is perfectly true and it points immediately to the argument before this House this evening. The simple fact of the matter is that the Territories are not States. They are in a process of transition. It is not a competent form of argument to contend that the Territories should be regarded as equal with the States. 
In no sense do I cast any aspersion upon my distinguished and gallant friend, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  whose advocacy in this Parliament on matters pertaining to the Northern Territory may be described, without being offensive, as persistent and competent. But I am not seeking to embarrass my honourable friend at all. What I am concerned about is the proposal now before the House that the Senate should have representatives from the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Look at the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  He made a speech which was remarkably redolent of the great conflict between the British Isles and the American colonies over representation. One could almost hear him declaim: 'No taxation without representation'. It reached almost a dull chant, to do him credit on the point. The simple truth of the matter is that the honourable gentleman asked in his speech - honourable members will recall the dulcet language in which he asked this question - 'Is it not strange that there is not one elected representative of either Territory in the Senate to expound the case for the local inhabitants?' He was lachrymose; the tears were pouring out of his eyes down on to the blotting paper. He was trying to encourage the view that there is something improper about the fact that the 2 Territories have no representation in the Senate. 
Let me say this to the honourable gentleman, to this House and, I hope, to the country: This is one of the most blatant attacks ever on the Australian Constitution. The audacity of the Minister for Services and Property is matched only by his fecundity of mind in dreaming this up. This Bill is not one which merely seeks, in terms of clause 4, to put into the Senate 2 senators for each of the 2 Territories involved. This Bill, by dint of that clause, seeks to destroy the whole of the Federal Constitution. I want to test this. I do not want to gild the lily; these days I have a heavy preference for erring on the side of under-exaggeration. Let us take the Minister's speech. He recited section 122 in language that would have done credit to  Sir John  Gielgud. if any of the broadcasting stations or television channels could get him on the air they would score points galore for the sense of poetry in his voice. He recited the section and then he made these profound observations dealing with section 122: 
It is clearly permissive. It was therefore the clear intention of the founders of the Australian Constitution that Parliament should be empowered to permit representation of residents of the Territories of the Commonwealth in the National Parliament. 
For the benefit of those who may not be going to bed with the Australian Constitution tucked under their pillows, I point out that section 122 provides: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
In summary, a Territory may be allowed representation on the terms the Parliament thinks fit. The honourable gentleman, who has swept himself into this spendid state of exuberance about mucking up the electoral laws of this country, says of that section: Tt is clearly permissive'. The second thing he says about it is that it was therefore the clear intention of the founders of the Australian Constitution to ensure that representatives of residents in the Territories came to this Parliament. I will deal with the last argument first. I am not culling them out in any terms of offence or, indeed, of substance. 
The honourable gentleman says that it was the view of the founders of Federation that the Territories should be regarded in the same respect as the States. I would be interested to know his authority for that curious proposition. To go back to 1897, when this matter was argued and the clause was before the Convention of that year,  Sir Edward  Braddon drew attention to the nature of the clause and said, amongst other things: 
I think there is a necessity for amending line 6. 
That deals with the precise line here - 
It states that the Commonwealth may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. I would ask why it should be left to the Federal Parliament to decide? The representation in this instance is to be in both Houses, not in one House or in the other. Why should we not preserve in this question the ratio of representation which has been fixed already in regard to our representation generally? 
After a mild exchange of interjections across the place, the distinguished  Mr Barton  said: 
I thought you were harking back. 

 Sir Edward Braddon replied: 
No. I am barking forward. 
And he was harking forward to the evening when the Minister for Services and Property came here with this scrungy little proposal seeking to demolish the Australian Constitution. 
The debate continued, and  Mr Deakin,  the most percipient of the minds who have ever had anything to do with the Australian Constitution, appealed to  Sir Edward  not to press his amendment.  Mr Barton  joined with him in making this appeal. He said this: 
I ask the honourable member not to insist on his amendment, which refers to territories and not to new States. It would be impossible for the Commonwealth ever to consent to the admission of territories which might be sparsely populated, and which would, according to the honourable member's proposal, be entitled to six members in the Senate. Territories or districts which are only in a primitive state of development are intended to be dealt with by a clause of this sort. They are in a transition state, and they are governed by the Commonwealth until such time as the States have reached a condition which would entitle them to representation in the Senate. 
There is nothing in the debates dealing with the Federal Constitution which lends the slightest weight to the proposition put before this House by the Minister for Services and Property. To say that it was the intention of the founders of Federation that the Territories should be represented on the same basis as the States or as new States is to do history a dreadful disservice. For the purposes of illustrating the fatuousness of the Minister's assertion, let me deal with the matter in practical terms. It should not be imagined that the only 2 Territories for which this country is responsible are the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. What about Norfolk Island? What about the Australian Antarctic? What about Ashmore and the Cartier Islands? What about Heard Island and Macquarie Island? What about the Cocos (Keeling) Islands? 
Let me deal with the interjection by the Minister for Services and Property merely to light up how utterly inadequate he is in terms of pressing an argument with any measure of conviction and frankness upon this great and grave issue. Does the Minister say that the Cocos (Keeling) Islands are uninhabited? There are people there who. to take the Minister's own argument, are entitled to representation in the national Parliament as residents of the Territories of the Commonwealth. Where is the consistency of the Minister? Where does he draw the line? What is his benchmark, other than the mere pragmatism of political opportunity? This is the Minister's position. There are 5 other Territories. The Minister's silence can only be described as rivalling that in a shearing shed after the cut out. If the Minister is correct that section 122 in the Constitution - to use his language, gloria in excelsis - is permissive, what of the consequences? Let honourable gentlemen opposite not put themselves into any curious position as far as this matter is concerned, because I confirm the view that there are no certainties in politics and the fact that they are in government today does not mean that they will not be in opposition tomorrow. If the Minister is now resorting to using section 122 of the Constitution for the purposes of adding a few senators here, a few members there, what is to be the end? The Minister says that it is his judgment that there should be 2 members. Why not, putting it in homely language, kick it up to three? Why not make it five, seven, nine or eleven. As my distinguished and learned friend, the honourable member for Parramatta, said earlier in this debate, where is to be the cut off mark? If the Minister is correct in asserting that section 122 of the Constitution is to be used, as some commentators describe its use, as a unitary section in the Constitution, a section which gives plenary powers to do anything, this section of the Constitution means in effect that all other sections in the Constitution can be trampled upon. A more impossible proposition I have never listened to in my life. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory is interjecting, asking what the High Court has done about it. 1 invite the Minister to follow the High Court's decision through on this matter, ranging from Buchanan's case to the case of Spratt v. Hermes in which the present Chief Justice dealt with section 122. What he said may furnish some understanding for the Minister for the Capital Territory upon this point. 1 always indulge myself in the direction of charity.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, the Chief Justice, said: 
Section 122 gives to the Parliament legislative power of a different order to those given by section SI. That power is not only plenary but is unlimited by reference to subject matter. It is a complete power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the territory - an expression condensed in section 122 to 'for the government of the Territory'. 
What the Minister for Services and Property and the Labor Government are attempting to do is to translate section 122 into a power which would enable the Government to control and trample upon every other power in the Constitution. Let me demonstrate that very quickly. If the Minister for Services and Property is correct, by a mere amendment to this Bill or Act at some time in the future 2 senators could be swept to, say, nine or eleven, and depending upon the political climate they could be members of the Senate for 3 years at least. During the course of that time they could be responsible for accepting or rejecting all manner and forms of legislation. I have never known in my experience such a curious attempt being made by a government in possession of its wits to mislead the Australian people. If the Parliament should want final proof of that I invite this House to consider one of the other attending Bills, the Bill dealing with the Representation Act, put forward by the Minister. He puts out a simple little statement to explain to us what it is all about. I would have a distinct preference for talking to my pekinese dog to find out what it is all about. Dealing with one of the clauses the statement says that section 10 of the Representation Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (a) the word 'Senators' and substituting the words 'the Senators for the States'. What impertinence. What impudence. Here is a Bill purporting to amend in explicit form a section in the Constitution. Section 24 of the Constitution provides: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of senators. 
It has nothing to do with senators from the States or anywhere else. I say to the Minister for Services and Property: Call off your trip abroad to examine electoral laws. Stay here. Spend a few hours in the Library, do a bit of homework and catch up on the reality of Australian politics and you will be persuaded to the view that introducing legislation of this character has no purpose and will offer you little hope. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  quite explicitly: Will he agree with me that all that would be required to include the territories of Norfolk Island, the Australian 
Antarctic, Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Heard Island, Macquarie Island and the Cocos (Keeling) Islands would be a simple amendment to proposed new section 3, sub-section 2 of this Bill? It is a simple question. I am quite sure that my friend the Minister, without too much feverish activity, would be able to answer it. 
I will speak very briefly to this clause. To point to the absurdity of this entire proposal I would like to ask the Minister for Services and Property: Why does he pick on 2 senators? What is the virtue in having two? What calculations have been entertained by the honourable gentleman in arriving at 2 senators? As a further illustration of the fact that it was never intended by the founders of federation that a Territory should be represented by senators I again draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the debate of the 1897 convention on this very point. Deakin and Barton - their reputations are not to be smiled away by the honourable gentleman - both proceeded on the assumption that the Senate would remain a States House. I accept the view of my honourable friend the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  that that has substantially disappeared. If that be the case and if it is today essentially a Parties House then what the Government is doing is seeking to turn its entire back on the nature of the compact as established at Federation. 
I ask the honourable gentleman if he will read what Deakin had to say. He said: 
The Senate will have  an  equal  voice with tha  House of Representatives in determining what representation is to bc given . . . 
Right through the whole of his argument, when he was replying to  Sir Edward  Braddon, he proceeded on that assumption.  Mr Barton,  when speaking of the Territories, said: 
They are in a transition state . . 
This is a matter of historical record. I warn this Committee - and I hope that my warnings may filter outside to the country - that this is a most significant attack upon the Constitution and if it should by any chance succeed it  will  open up the gateway for smashing what is left of federalism in this country. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
The term of service of  a  senator for a Territory commences on the day of his election and expires  at  the close of the day next preceding the polling day for the general election of members of the House  of  Representatives next following his election. 
Two types of Senate vacancies are dealt with in Part II of the Constitution. There is a casual vacancy which is filled by the State Parliament, and there is a vacancy simplicited which arises if a senator is absent for  2  months, the Governor-General is notified and he in turn notifies the Governor of the State concerned. Here the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is proposing that there is  a  vacancy. In other words, he is riding rough shod over the whole of Part II of the Constitution. I just draw attention to that. I would be very amazed if it was in the power of the Government to do this. I am delighted to hear the honourable gentleman say: 'We have received advice'. No doubt he has. But I can assure him some of the advice he has received will be open to argument, and certainly will be submitted to it. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Clause 5 seeks to amend the Representation Act by omitting from paragraph (a) of section 10 the word 'Senators' and substituting the words 'the Senators for the States'. That dramatically lights up the simple fact that the Government envisages 2 types of senators - senators from the States and senators from the Territories. As to the proposition of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that this will in no way affect the representation in the House of Representatives, I draw his attention to the language used in section 24 of the Constitution, which states: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of the senators. 
There is no suggestion in any part of the Constitution that any government is at liberty to distinguish between senators qua senators and senators of another variety. I suggest to the Minister that what he is attempting to do here again lights up the fact that he is seeking to circumvent the Constitution. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. My question concerns the matter of Crown privilege of documents and the landmark case decided in the House of Lords in Conway v. Rimmer, which considerably narrowed the circumstances in which the Crown may claim privilege of documents. Can the Prime Minister recall asking in April 1970 of the then Prime Minister a question concerning Conway v. Rimmer and the implications of that case for parliamentary committees? Can he be encouraged to agree that plainly implicit in his question is a suggestion that only in the most exceptional circumstances should any attempt be made by a Minister to withhold a document from a parliamentary committee? Finally, if I should succeed in getting that encouragement from the honourable gentleman, will he give an undertaking to the House that if a Senate committee should ask for the telex message sent by  Mr Barbour  of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, it will be placed before the committee? 
I suppose that this is a very curious time of the day to be discussing what appears to be a Bill of no great consequences. The Bill, in my view, nevertheless represents an historic mark in the march of our people. It seeks to change the royal style and titles of  Her  Majesty the Queen as the sovereign of this country. According to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  2 specific changes will be made. The first change is an amendment to delete from the royal style and titles all reference to the United Kingdom. The second change is to delete reference to the title 'Defender of the Faith'. I suppose that at first blush this would seem to be no other occasion than merely one upon which in some curious nostalgic way to trace the development of the title 'Defender of the Faith' and to look at the links which this country has with the United Kingdom. I intend to excuse myself from such an excursion. 
I wish to look at what I regard as the significant feature of this Bill. In my view, it does more than make 2 rather meagrely casted amendments. It does far more than delete reference to the United Kingdom in the royal style and titles. It does far more than merely seek to delete the title 'Defender of the Faith'. One of the curious things in life - I hope I will be forgiven for engaging for a moment or two in a philosophical foray - is that so seldom does any generation believe that it is actively associated with history. I suppose most of us take the view that history, by the large, is something which has gone before us and is in no way actively associated with us. We tend to regard the times in which we live as in no way actively participating in the great spread of history. Of course, a moment's reflection shows that this simply is not the case. 
I can vividly recall on one occasion at Easter, shortly after the Soviet invasion of Czechoslavakia, going across the border between Austria and Czechoslovakia. I hope,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I will have your indulgence to speak of this occasion; you will see the relevance of it in a moment. Just near the border of those 2 countries is to be found what remains of an old Roman fort. The fort was part of a Roman line of communications stretching from Rome itself right through the whole of Western Europe and to the British Isles. All that remains of the Roman Empire today, as far as that part of the world is concerned, is a collection of stone and rock. As I looked at it - I can see it in my mind's eye - these words came back 'to me: 
. the words of Caesar might 
Have stood against the world: now lies he there And none so poor as to do him reverence. 
The Roman Empire disappeared, and today we are involved in the consideration of the disappearance of yet another empire - the British Empire. I voice no complaint about that. The complaints of years gone by largely went unnoticed, indeed by some in this House. But that is a controversy of years gone by. The simple fact is that we have been and we are involved in this tremendous change. Probably the last generation has seen more change in this Australian institution and probably more change in the Commonwealth of Nations and the Empire than has been seen in any other empire. 
I think it does us good occasionally not to pretend that something has not happened but to look back and to see what in fact has happened and why it has happened. The position of the monarchy in relation to Australia and its position in relation to what I might without offence describe as being the other Crown countries in the British Commonwealth of Nations, are by no means identical. This is the substantial thesis that I want to put to the House this evening, to beg of its time for a few moments so to do. The fact remains that the British Empire, which Field-Marshal Smuts was able to describe in the 1930s as one of the 4 great powers, has gone. The Commonwealth of Nations today is one of those amorphous gatherings of nations from which it is very difficult to distil anything in common. If one comes more definitively to those countries which still regard themselves as monarchies one finds great changes indeed going on in relation to the nation in its corporate sense and to the monarchy as an institution. 
In 1961, when the United Kingdom sought to join the European Economic Community it was a move which I must confess - I suppose the national Parliament should not be despised as being a confessional box - was the end of what I regarded and held deeply as all prospect of the Commonwealth emerging as a third world force - something to fit in those days between the messianic mood of Moscow and what I might without offence describe as the egregiousness of Washington. I thought the Commonwealth could act as something to bridge the two. I saw that hope and that world shattered before me. I wrote at the time about it. I know that a lot of people thought that what I wrote at the time may have been a long distance away from reality. Be that as it may. But at times we all are victims of dreams and of hopes, and if men ever get to the stage where they are not to be inspired by hope or not to be persuaded by dreams, we will live in a pretty desperate and dull world. 
In 1961, when Britain sought to join Europe, I wrote to the 'Times' of London on the point of the royal style and titles and on the effect on the monarchy. This is what I want to put to the House. I wrote: 

 Mr Macmillan has given assurancesto Commonwealth leaders that Britain will not join the Common Market without seeking to make adequate provision to safeguard their respective trading positions. These . assurances have been welcome. Nevertheless,  Mr Macmillan  has given no assurance whatsoever regarding the ultimate political consequences of British membership of the Common Market. 
What is to become of the monarchical institution within the framework of European unity? No British Minister has made the slightest attempt to answer this question. How, one may ask, can allegiance be given to a European Parliament and to the monarchy? What if circumstances promoted a conflict between the allegiances? Which allegiance would have priority? 
I raise that not to seek to vindicate a view, be it regarded as puny or substantial, of 10 years ago, but to persuade a reflection upon the importance of institutions within our framework. If one reads a White Paper prepared by the Lord Chancellor in May 1967 on the legal and constitutional implications of the United Kingdom membership of European communities one is left with an overwhelming impression that British membership of Europe transcends completely any consideration of joining some tariff, some economic or some merchant operation. For example, I shall read from paragraph 4 of the Lord Chancellor's paper. He said: 
The novel features of the European Treaties lie first in the powers conferred on the Community institutions to issue subordinate instruments which themselves may impose obligations on the Member States or may take effect directly as law within them; 
This proposition, of course, expressed to any person with a tolerable acquaintance with the legal relationship between the monarchy and Parliament and the monarchy and the individual, can only be described as being profound. As confirmation of that view I refer the House to the views expressed by that distinguished writer, Professor Wade, when writing in the 'Law Quarterly Review' of January 1972. He observed: 
We are now to enter a new sort of international club where the rules require more than mere restraint: they require the integration of 2 legal systems which may conflict at many points. Our obligation is to ensure that community law is paramount. 
Again, with a view to pointing out what has happened I refer to what was written by Lord Denning when he was Master of the Rolls and who is again Master of the Rolls, in a foreword to a book entitled 'Common Market Law' which I think was published in 1961 or 1962. With typical Denning perception and vigour he wrote: 
Our Constitutional law must be rewritten so as to show that the sovereignty of these islands is not ours alone, , but shared with others. Large parts of our Statute and common law must over the years be adjusted. 
His Lordship continued: 
The last word on the Treaty will rest, not with our courts, not even with the House of Lords, but with the Court of Justice at Luxembourg. 
What I have quoted is in my opinion evidence of one simple but very profound prop osition, namely, that the political consequences of British entry into Europe upon the institution of the monarchy are as yet unseen and this even by those who live in the United Kingdom itself. The consequences in an indirect way for Australia 1 shall seek to invite the House to consider in a moment or two. It is impossible to read the Treaty of Roma without coming again, I would submit, to the conclusion that what is aimed at ultimately is a political unity. 
Within the context of the United Kingdom these propositions emerge. It is the Queen, in Parliament, which makes the laws. When a person seeks a writ from a court it is the Queen's writ which flows. When a person seeks an order of prohibition, an order of certiorari or an order of mandamus it is the Queen's orders which flow. The Common Market treaty seeks ultimately to have a common citizenship. How can the citizenship of the British citizen be diminished without affecting pro tanto the position of the citizen in relation to the monarchy? Merely to ask these questions is to identify what is happening. In relation to Australia that happily has not happened. Let us not forget that the Prime Minister is  Her  Majesty's Prime Minister of Australia and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is  Her  Majesty's right honourable Leader of the Opposition. Every person who comes into this Parliament commits himself in one way or another to allegiance to the Queen. Part I, section 1, of our Constitution states: 
The legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in a Federal Parliament, which shall consist of the Queen, a Senate, and a House of Representatives, and which is hereinafter called 'The Parliament', or 'The Parliament of the Commonwealth'. 
Do not for one moment think that this is talking about some abstruse point of law. This is a Constitution not to be lightly altered and which, indeed, experience has shown cannot be lightly altered. The three - the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives - make up the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. I know there are some who take the view that this is mere fiction - something which over the years has degenerated into a formality where the Prime Minister gives advice to the GovernorGeneral, the Queen's representative, and that advice is automatically taken. I wonder whether the Prime Minister will forgive me if T remind him of the words of a very distinguished predecessor of his, not in the office of 
Prime Minister, but as Leader of the Australian Labor Party, the right honourable  Dr Evatt  who, in his great treatise, 'The King and  His  Dominion Governors' wrote: 
Surely it is wrong to assume that the GovernorGeneral ... a mere tool in the hands of the dominant party. 
Those words were written with very great authority. Wherever one goes one finds that that is the case. It would not be out of point to observe that Professor Eugene A. Forsey in Royal Powers of Dissolution' - the word 'dissolution' is on the lips of a surprising number of people on both sides of this Parliament - wrote:   the danger of Royal absolutism is passed; but the danger of Cabinet absolutism, even of Prime Minister absolutism, is present and growing. Against that danger, the reserve power of the Crown, and especially the power to force or refuse dissolution, is in some instances the only safeguard. The Crown is more than a quaint survival, a social ornament, a symbol, an automation with no public will of its own. lt is an absolutely essential part of the Parliamentary system. In certain circumstances the Crown alone can preserve the Constitution or ensure that if it be changed it shall only be the deliberate will of the people. 
I refer again to Part I, section 1, of the Australian Constitution. Whatever the Prime Minister's views may be on the - 
Debate interrupted. 
When this matter was last before the House I was talking about the juridical position which will be imposed upon the monarchy by the entry of the United Kingdom into Europe. I was dealing with the effect upon this country. I must confess a measure of dismay that the mechanics of this place are such that a debate upon the future position of the monarchy should be broken by a mechanical device. At 10.15 p.m. last night you,  Sir, with  your impeccable sense of courtesy said that the debate is to be adjourned. One is obliged to try to recapture the fragrant moments of 24 hours ago, but I do not intend to do that, I hope, at least to the relief of honourable members. 
We are talking about a Bill which in my view represents a landmark in our existence. The last occasion on which this Parliament debated a Bill relating to the royal style and title was in 1953. At that time sitting at the table where my friend the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  now sits was the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Kooyong, and he dealt with the subject with a command of industry and understanding and his own impeccable command of interest in the whole of the British experience. I can recall what he said, I believe, almost to the word when it was suggested that the royal style and title should be changed to some territorial expression, Queen of Australia. He said: 'No, this is not to be the case'. 
 Look, my dear friend, time rambles by and I often wonder whether we are accoutred to meet it. In 1953 the then right honourable member for Kooyong was sitting there and he said: 'It has been suggested that the United Kingdom be left out of the description of the royal style and title'. He described that as being fantastic. Yet here today it has been left out. Does this not underline, in politics, how true it is that the resolution of today is not necessarily the camping place of tomorrow? The other amendment proposed by this Bill is to take out of the description of the royal style and title the words 'Defender of the Faith'. I think that this was included during the time of Henry VIII, when Pope Leo X, if my febrile memory serves me right, conferred on him the title 'Defender of the Faith' because he had written a treatise against the alleged heresy of Luther. 
If authenticity of documents is to be our study, there will be some interesting revelations. Ever since William Rufus had been crowned King of England there had always been the description 'By the Grace of God.' 
My dear friend, if we are to forget the cradle in which we were nurtured and nursed then there is nothing to commend us at all. The whole of our being goes back to these great centuries. For a 100 years after William of Rufus had been declared by the Grace of God, this had continued. The challenge to this Parliament today is to acknowledge the fact that the great waves of history have washed against us. One may not necessarily lament this, but I think that it shows a very shallow understanding of our circumstance if we do not at least pause to acknowledge it. This is what I put to this Parliament today. 
I confessed with a sense of no shame last evening the effect that the disintegration of the old Commonwealth had had upon me; the fact that I had looked with a measure of anxiety, a measure of unfeigned hope, for the Commonwealth to be given a role between the Soviet Union and the United States of America. If I was wrong in imagining that to be a worthwhile and purposeful role, I hope that I will not be condemned by those who sit around me. At least it was a hope, at least it was a dream and at least it is something for which I am not ashamed. Here we are brought by dint of circumstance to the realisation that the Queen is in our everyday existence. If one looks at section 1 of our Constitution one sees reference to the Queen in Parliament. This is not something that is to be whistled aside by any declaration of doctrinaire policy, no matter how enfevered it may be. This is something which is there and is not to be disturbed other than by the will of the people. 
It would not be out of place, in the words of a man who has given great hope to our people, to observe that, as far as the old British Empire and Commonwealth is concerned, this is the occasion to acknowledge the fact that it may well be that the gulfs will wash us down. It may well be that we shall be washed down and shall touch the Happy Isles. It may well be that all that will occur. But, in the minds, the hearts and the spirits of the people who have looked upon this great gathering of nations, this is something not to be ignored as we walk by. This is a very great occasion on which to acknowledge the fact that the Crown has served a serious purpose in our existence and, despite the clamours and the anxieties of some second rate socialists, it will continue to do so. 
I simply wish to make a very short observation. I think it is a measure of the importance of this Bill that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has seen fit to be present during the whole of the second reading debate and, indeed, during the third reading debate. I think that that mere fact is an indication of how historic is this Bill. This is not some casual Bill before the House. It is a Bill of profound importance. 
My question, which I address to the Prime Minister, concerns the judgment given by the International Court of Justice relating to this country's application for an injunction to restrain France from nuclear testing. Does the honourable gentleman agree that his release of what appeared to be the details of the judgment in advance of the actual release by the Court has put the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, who sat on the International 
Court, in a very difficult position - one of embarrassment. If the honourable gentlemen does acknowledge that, will he detail to the House the circumstances whereby he became acquainted with the details of the Court's judgment? 
Some years ago in England 2 young men were charged with murder. They were aged respectively 16 years and, as I recall, 19 years. The circumstances whereby they came to stand in the dock were these: They broke into a warehouse late at night and they were apprehended by a caretaker. The young boy 16 years of age had a revolver with him. They sought to escape from the caretaker. The elder boy called out to the younger one: 'Give it to him, Dick. Give it to him.' 
I thought we were dealing with a matter of high principle; not with a matter of comics. The young boy pulled the trigger of the revolver and shot the warehouse keeper, who died. Both of them were charged with murder and both of them were convicted. The young boy who had pulled the trigger and who was in fact responsible for the death of the caretaker, because of his age could not be sentenced to death and the elder boy, who was in fact an accomplice, a party to the offence, the one who had called out: 'Give it to him, Dick. Give it to him,' had the sentence carried out upon him. I give that narrative because I believe that it points to the dilemma in society's consideration of whether or not the death penalty should be retained. I will come back to it in a moment or two. 
A few months ago I went to the funeral of a young daughter of one of my very close friends and while we were waiting for the cortege to arrive at the cemetery in Brisbane I stood beside the grave of a man who was hanged in Queensland some years ago for bushranging.  His  name was .Patrick Keniffe I stood beside his grave with a .man who. has appeared in hundreds of murder trials, and there are very few people living in the Englishspeaking world today who can say they have appeared in hundreds of murder trials. He is  Mr Daniel  Casey of the criminal bar, a very distinguished Australian and one of the greatest defenders of liberty this country has ever known. I could not help but think as I stood beside the grave of Keniffe: 'Could you have pulled the lever to send this man to eternity?' As the coffin of this young girl was lowered into the grave the thought came to me, as I believe it comes to most of us, that the most tremendous event in life is death. No matter what our sense of belief may be, whether we are squeamish about the idea of dying or not, whether any one of us is gripped with any sense of thanatophobia or not, the greatest event in life is death. I went back to Keniffe: 'Could you have pulled the lever to send this man hurtling to eternity?' 
The statistics are dead against those who assert that capital punishment is a deterrent against capital offences, . that it discourages people from committing crimes of great or exacting violence. I must confess that this has been one of those intellectual and philosophical torments through which I have gone. I suppose it is something that all of us from one time to another pass through. I must confess that I remain today unconvinced that fierce penalties do in fact discourage people from committing offences. When one comes to the central core of what lies before us surely there is on the one hand this question: Does the preservation of capital punishment discourage and should society seek to preserve it? I must say for myself that when I reflect upon the outrageous crimes that can be and are committed during times of war, I unhesitatingly say that capital punishment should be preserved for those who would seek to so outrage their country as to hand it over to the enemy. But then I remind myself that in times of war most of the laws of society do in fact disappear or, if they do not disappear, are certainly put in jeopardy. This seems to me to be the question that this House should decide this evening. We can legislate only with respect to the 2 Territories, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Statistically can we be sure that we are right? It is very comforting to look at a great range of figures and say: 'I think perhaps you are right in contending that capital punishment has not led to any decrease in substantial crime, say, in the United States of America or the United Kingdom and, ergo, that will be our experience here in Australia'. I do not think that that is the way we can approach it. What we have to consider is whether or not our society can accept that form of retribution which seeks to extinguish life. That is the proposition as I see it and I respect those who take one side or the other. I have thought earnestly about what society should do to a person who, for example, would insure his mother-in-law, put her on a plane, put a bomb on the plane and blow up the whole plane. I have thought about the circumstances where an individual would place a bomb, say, under the central control tower at Mascot aerodrome when aircraft were manoeuvering in close proximity, either coming in to land or taking off; or where a bomb is placed under the central signal station at the Central Railway Station when half a dozen trains were coming in to their respective positions and the enormous calamities that would result from the detonation of that weapon. That is a consideration and it is a matter for utter conscience. 
I do not think that any political doctrine can bind any person to any particular view on this. It is quite beyond political doctrine no matter how expansive, no matter how definitive that doctrine may be. I think we all have to work these questions out for ourselves, in our own way and however imperfectly we may do it. There are a few of us who have appeared in trials involving capital offences. For myself I have always found them to be most harrowing experiences and, at the risk of selfindulgence, I recall the occasion when I appeared for a railway fettler charged in Queensland with wilful murder. He was seen by 2 people to put 6 bullets into a man. He admitted to the fact that he had done so to 3 others, including a doctor, a sister at a hospital and an ambulance-bearer. The only defence available to that man was that of intoxication, to seek to reduce the charge to manslaughter. I failed, and the effect of that failure upon me was very significant. It was not up to me to measure its effect upon the man. But what has always remained with me is the thought that if when the jury brought in the verdict of guilty, the judge, as he would have in years gone by, had imposed the one sentence available and sentenced this man to be hanged, I would have found that utterly unconscionable having regard to all of the circumstances. I must confess that that personal experience of that one murder trial has taken me very considerably away from the position I once held, whether rightly or wrongly. 
I know there are those who are probably of stronger fibre, of stronger character, of stronger mind, who would not feel squeamish about that sort of thing. But to have lived through the days with that man and to have seen the sense of anguish and indeed to have felt it is not an experience that can be lightly described nor, speaking for myself, lightly dismissed. On the other hand I have had the experience of appearing for people who, because of the way the events fell, because of what one may describe as 'the luck of the conduct of the trial', escaped. 
Of course it is not up to any counsel to determine whether or not his client is in fact guilty. Indeed if a client does admit to his own guilt the duty of the counsel is plain - he must put the Crown to its proof. But the difference between days gone by and today seems to me to be this: We contend that we are enlightened although I have the greatest of doubts whether in fact the reality bears out our intention. But I think we should give some indication that we are striving to bear out our contention and that we are enlightened. We live in a world that has become desperately inured to the tragic loss of life. We live in a world where human values and regard for human values are very much in jeopardy and taken for granted. I suppose the constant search of mankind today, as it has always been although never made quite clear, is towards seeking to create that form of society in which there is a very genuine regard for human values and the supreme human value, surely, is that of human life. 
I come back to where I began. Death is the greatest event in life no matter what our belief may be. It is very hard to ask people to destroy life. This is not some vague, some empty sentimentalism. To ask a person to go and to take life in war is a matter which, of course, we take for granted and we are not emancipated by the fact that we do take it for granted. But during the course of peace surely something else is the search of us all. I have not had an opportunity of examining the amendments which have been circulated in the name of my friend the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I assure him that I will examine them. I express to the House that at the moment I hold to the view that in cases of treason the extreme penalty should be maintained. I confess without any sense of shame that I have very considerable misgivings with respect to what should be done to those who commit heinous crimes involving the loss of a great deal of life either by the blowing up of aircraft or by the blowing up of those control mechanisms which lead to calamities. 
This is the position in which I find myself: Crimes of passion such as murder which has been brought about by provocation are in the ultimate intelligible and one seeks to understand them. The development of the law has been such as to seek to offer some form of mitigation. Indeed, one only has to mention provocation to realise that in certain circumstances where provocation has been established that mitigation does reduce the enormity of the crime and as a consequence relieves the person who is involved of facing the extreme penalty. This is a matter of great gravity but beyond that it is a matter of simple blunt conscience and no matter how hard we may strive to escape our conscience it is something to which we are tied, and tied for all time. 
I do not propose to detain the Committee for very long. I explained last evening the personal dilemma in which I found myself in respect of this matter and the personal experience that took me away from a particular position with respect to the death penalty. I also indicated to the House that I believed in maintaining the death penalty for treason. I thought that was put quite without ambiguity and, even though I may attract a measure of displeasure from my colleagues on both sides I must say that I do not approach this question with respect to treason from the point of view of deterrence in any shape or form. I believe that a country, in its corporate state, is entitled to protect itself and when there is any attempt to infringe that corporate integrity and security it is entitled to resort to all forms in order to ward off those who would seek to destroy it. When a person seeks to destroy the security and integrity of the state, I must confess that no consideration of deterrence goes through my mind, I say unhesitatingly that the community is entitled to resort to retribution. This is the one ground on which I find myself quite overwhelmed by the high considerations of the safety of the state. 
I agree with the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  that there are many cases which could be cited and which go into what one could describe as some twilight zone of difficulty in characterising and identifying whether something is treason simplicita or not. The Minister instanced the historic case of  Sir Roger  Casement. One can recall in our time Pontecorvo, George Blake and Alan NunnMay, to mention but three. One could go on; but that is to no avail. Possibly what the Minister would invite us to do, in conjunction with the observations by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  is to be a little more definitive as to what treason is in this day and age, because certainly in the -United Kingdom the Treason Act of 1352 still holds the field and that is a complete piece of nonsense. I have put my position; I can do no more. I must support the amendment. 
I offer the view that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is not meeting with any boisterous display of support because no honourable member has risen in his place to say that be takes the view that this legislation is splendid in design and will bring an immense amount of relief and delight to the hearts of all of his constituents. The Postmaster-General is sitting at the table in a state of concealed distress. 
 His heart is in anything but this legislation, I can assure honourable members of that. After listening to the views offered by my friend, the right honourable Leader of 

<graphic href="085131197309174_56_5.jpg"></graphic>

the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  I want to say this to him: I do not know what you have in mind in the way of an amendment, but if it is against these Bills you have got me for a start. Some years ago there was a character in the Queensland Parliament who bad an immense capacity to get his metaphors mixed. One day he really excelled himself when, with a flourish of rhetoric that would have done credit to Cicero, he said: 'What is this government doing? I will tell you what it is doing. It is gathering up the reins of the ship of state and it is galloping it pell mell towards the edge of the precipice.' All metaphors can be put to one side, but I think that is a pretty tidy account of the Government led by the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of which my friend, the Postmaster-General, is a member. Whether it is galloping to the edge of a precipice is a matter of opinion. But maybe we will have a closer idea of that on Saturday. 
I want to say to my honourable friend, the Postmaster-General: 'You are making a thundering mess of things'. I do not intrude any partisan observations into this. I am keeping politics out of it completely. But when I look at what he has done with respect to these 3 post and telegraph Bills, his first major foray into legislation, I am genuinely upset. I would have hoped that the Minister would have sought before this debate was over to try to retrieve the position. I have always looked upon the Postmaster-General as being a person of immense reason. But I am bound to tell him that I have the gravest of doubts, after seeing these Bills, whether his family motto could be described as 'Patience and reason above all.' 
I am coming on to the Post and Telegraph Bill. I would hope that that message would reach you,  Mr Speaker,  even if it had to be carried by Cobb &amp; Co. coach. A commission has been appointed to inquire into the affairs of the Post Office. These Bills represent a complete insult to each and every one of the commissioners. Neither the PostmasterGeneral nor any other person who takes the view that he has virtue on his side will escape this position. What is the point in appointing a commission to inquire into the affairs and operations of the Post Office when these 3 Bills, utterly radical in their approach, are introduced? 

 Mr Speaker, you inquired what Bill I was dealing with when I referred to the motto of the Minister being: 'Patience and reason above all'. What patient man would not have said: 'I will await the outcome of this royal commission before I introduce these radical approaches'? What reasonable person would not have said: 'I will wait and see what the commissioners turn in'? The members of this commission are 3 very distinguished Australians. Whatever their report may be, it will be a painstaking one. Why ask the commission to sit? What is the point in it? I ask the Postmaster-General: What if the commission makes a recommendation which calls for the complete restructuring of the Post Office in Australia? What is his position to be then? 
What will be the position of the Government? I do not know when the report of the commission will be presented. I venture the view that we would expect to see something in the nature of an interim report by the end of this year. If that is taken as an assumption and if it is taken as a further assumption that the commission will recommend, for example, the establishment of a corporation, what would be the position of the PostmasterGeneral in relation to such a recommendation? 
Let me take the position a little further: The commission may recommend the establishment of a corporation and also that that corporation follow the practice adopted in the United Kingdom, that as an independent body it must return something in the nature of the bond rate on capital invested. Postal charges will have to increase still further. I say to the honourable gentleman and to those who sit with him in the Government that this a hotchpotch approach to the problems of the Postmaster-General's Department. I shall seek to summon such puny powers as I have with the hereafter to do something to any member of the Labor Party who ever mentions a sentiment to this effect: 'I believe in decentralisation'. No set of Bills is more designed to fling a wet towel in the face of those who want to live in the bush than these Bills. As the Leader of the Country Party has said, it is all very fine for those whom I might describe, without offence, as being the city slickers- 
The silvertails, those who live in what we could call the crepe de Chine electorates; but when we are dealing with electorates which cover immense distances this seems to be a most unfair way of seeking to understand their problems. In one of his speeches the Postmaster-General admits precisely that. 'I must hand it to the honourable gentleman. The 3 speeches which he has made on these Bills rival in brevity the speech delivered by Moses. Listen to this: 
Broadly the new charges have been determined against the background that there should be no hidden subsidies and that assistance should be given in a direct form where such assistance is justified. 
Indirect subsidies! That is a bit of an insult to a Parliament in which every member has an opportunity to determine for himself whether something is an indirect subsidy. The honourable gentleman is saying, in effect, that the Government has not many seats in the country, it does not like its prospects of winning votes there, so those who live in the country can go to Bourke. That is a curious collocation of language. That is exactly what the honourable gentleman is saying. 
 Mr Speaker,  if you wait for a while I will join you. The Leader of the Country Party has put his finger right on this. Of course it costs more to deliver mail say 100 miles up the Langlo. I imagine that the Postmaster-General and some of his colleagues have never heard the expression 'up the Langlo'. If the Government wants people to live there and to maintain enterprises in this part of the world it must be prepared to offer them reasonable services. By these Bills it denies them reasonable services. Precisely the same comment applies to telephones. 
I assure the honourable member for Eden-Monaro that we have him on our ringbarking program. The same comment that applies to telephones applies to country newspapers. My friend the Leader of the Country Party is correct when he says that local news in these small provinces is of the utmost importance. If the Government intends to suffocate the basis upon which they exist, it will take from them a very substantial attraction. I am convinced that politics and the discipline of seeking to survive politically encourages one to embrace an immense variety of political weapons. I suppose that flexibility would be one of the chief weapons by which all of us seek to survive. If the House wants an illustration of that, I will give it one now. The present Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  and metrication is an example. I call it metrication. He is in charge of metrication. If you will pardon me,  Mr Speaker,  it is one of the many things in this world which I do not understand. I have never met a jockey, a trainer, an owner or a horse that understands the metric system. I think it has cost me a lot of money. When one looks at this Bill, one can see some of what I would describe with immense Irish restraint as the evils of metrication. I want to give an illustration of flexibility - for the benefit of the Minister for Science - when there was last, what I would describe as an adjustment to postal charges. Honourable members will notice the euphemism of language which is happily the case. This was an adjustment in 1971. What did my friend the Minister for Science say? He said: 
The Government is using the Post Office as a tax collector rather than as a service agency which is what honourable members on this side of the House believe it should be. 
A service agency. Look at the honourable gentleman. We should at least congratulate him - he is blushing like a beetroot. Let us be under no misapprehension as to what takes place under these Bills. Again, I am indebted to my friend the Leader of the Country Party for pointing out that in some instances the rates have boomed up 500 per cent. If this illustration given by the Leader of the Country Party seems a little distant, let me take the simple case of posting a 7 oz letter, as I think this illustrates the point completely. At the moment one can post up to a 1 oz letter for 7c. Now I am assured by those versed in metric affairs that that is the equivalent of 28.3 grams. Let me for the sake of tidiness knock off the .3 grams and say that one can send a letter weighing 28 grams for 7c. All clear? Under the proposed rate one can send a letter for the same amount of money - 7c - but the weight is limited to 20 grams. That is a 40 per cent increase. Let me say to the Postmaster-General that at Christmas time he will get no Chrissy card from me, because all Christmas cards and all Father's Day cards - and who would deny me from being sent a Father's Day card - will cost more than 7c. I was distressed when I found that that was the way the thing worked. But then I looked a little further and I thought: What is the merit? Is there any genuine economic merit in bumping up postal charges? And I came to the words of an authority, the finest authority to be cited in this land, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself. He had this to say - and I hope this is carved on- 
Not on his tombstone. Let us keep ourselves away from death and look on the bright side of life. In 1971 the honourable gentleman had this to say: 
Postal and petrol increases in the current Budget will inevitably produce an identical effect, as will payroll tax . . . 
There will be immediate rises in costs to all consumers and there will be the inevitable flowthrough as these charges are passed on later in the year. All these rises could and would have been avoided by a government which genuinely sought to hold prices down. 
Aha, to hold prices down. Here they are being bumped up, 40 per cent here, 100 per cent there, 300 per cent there, 500 per cent there. And listen to this,  Mr Speaker,  for we have not yet come to the punch line: How can we take seriously the rhetoric of Ministers on inflation when the Government makes so consistent and comprehensive a contribution to the rapidity with which living costs increase? That is the language used by the Prime Minister in 1971 when very modest adjustments were made to postal charges. Here is a most flagrant attack on country people; here is an example of socialist budgeting. Here is an example of a government which, whether it believes it or whether it understands the position, is galloping pell-mell towards a precipice. If Government supporters think I have no charity in my being I must confirm it; if I see the Government standing on the edge of a precipice I will push it. 
I second the motion which has been moved by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  He has presented a most convincing case to the House.  His  argument is cogent and he has been very restrained. Not merely the sense of urgency which exists in the community and in the 3 Services supports in a very generous fashion the observations of the honourable member for Kooyong, but also the observations which have been made by people closely connected with the Government. But put all that argument to one side. The overwhelming reason why this House should now proceed to debate the motion of the honourable member for Kooyong is the fact that a clear invitation was extended to the honourable gentleman by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  Does the Minister take the view that he should be at liberty to taunt the honourable member for Kooyong and to say, T extend the invitation to you', and not to accept the answer to that challenge? If the Minister extends an invitation to me in the frank and courteous terms of the invitation this morning, of course I will respond. The response that came from the honourable member for Kooyong was plainly spontaneous. The invitation was extended and the honourable member responded. The House should proceed to discuss what is after all the first consideration of any Government - the security and the welfare of the nation. The way things are going at the moment we will not have a force available to take Red Hill on a hot Sunday afternoon. 
I would trespass upon the time of the House for but a few minutes to offer a few views which I hope are quite detached from any party political affinity. There has been no controversy in my 18 years in this Parliament which has incurred the wrath of my political colleagues more than this issue. The knives have led to some bleeding, but happily not to the extinction of the blood flow. I come back to a few fundamental issues as far as this legislation is concerned. I indicate to the House that I support the general principle, that is to say Parts I and II of the Bill. I reject Part III, the mining code, on which I shall have something to say in a moment or two. Parts I and II were substantially the parts in the Bill introduced on behalf of the present right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs by the then Minister for National Development and honourable member for Darling Downs,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who has since swept himself into retirement. I still see the same sense of urgency that the Minister used on that occasion. 
As far as the territorial sea is concerned, 1 am not greatly concerned. As far as the continental shelf is concerned, I am concerned. I want to repeat, if I may, something to those who take the view that this is a narrow pinched view. If the Acting Government Whip could occupy himself, I want to talk about one or two things, because people hold strong views on this matter. 
 I am delighted to get your asseveration that they do hold strong views, because in my view the last government behaved illegally as far as the continental shelf is conceerned. That is the proposition. Is there any doubt about it? The last Government, the McMahon Government, behaved illegally as far as the continental shelf was concerned. Does anyone disagree with that? 
 I am delighted to hear that from the honourable member for Petrie. Section 123 of our Constitution provides that this Parliament cannot unilaterally alter the boundary of any State. Is that in dispute from the honourable member for Petrie? I doubt it. The State Premiers, in particular the Premier of that northern State, contend that the continental shelf belongs to the States. Is there any doubt as to the assertion? This is the assertion which he makes. It was made by the former Attorney-General in Queensland,  Dr Peter  Delamothe. We have not had a lawyer in Queeensland as Attorney-General for over 40 years - a thundering disgrace. But put that to one side. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  wants to interject. If he wants to confute what I have to say I hope he will get up and say so. 
I will move an extension of time and we can sit here to sun-up as far as I am concerned. The Premier of Western Australia, the Premier of Queensland and all the Premiers by and large have contended- 
Look, go and take some valium and keep yourself quiet. They have asserted that the continental shelf belongs to the States. 
Of course he does. This is the point I want to make to you. Under the Australia-Indonesia agreement this Commonwealth Parliament purported to hand over part of the State of Western Australia to Indonesia. What does the honourable member have to say to that? 
Yes and people go out and commit murder. That does not connote approval or it should not connote approval. That is a silly situation people have got themselves into. I want to deal with the view put by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  for whom I have the utmost affection and admiration. Fancy in the Parliament, nurtured in the tradition of Westminster, saying that you will have a mixed responsibility. Who answers for what happens under a mixed responsibility? Does the Minister in the Queensland Parliament answer to the Queensland Parliament? Does the Minister for Minerals and Energy answer here? There must be the clearest line of authority as far as Parliament is concerned. 
They are 2 practical grounds that I offer to honourable members, and unless they are to be swept into a state of curiosity about this great issue they will face up to them. But I want to go on to a further one and I will not have any person, no matter to which political party he may belong, seek to overwhelm me on this ground. Five-sevenths - I want to repeat the statistics on this - five-sevenths of the world in which we live is made up of oceans and the last great world to be conquered, so far as we are concerned, is represented by the oceans. Already those with power, money and influence are seeking to exploit the oceans. Howard Hughes has already started to mine the oceans. Is this race to go to the swiftest? I ask this question again. I ask it not for the first time. Is this race to go to the more powerful, to the strongest? 
The  President  of the United States, backed with his unique authority, is going to the next Law of the Sea Conference, to ask the nations of the world to abandon the 1958 Geneva convention relating to the law of the sea dealing with the continental shelf and to restrict it to the 200 metre mark. The area between the 200 metre mark and the end of what is called compendiously the continental margin is to be handed over to a trusteeship arrangement operated by the United Nations and the coastal state - 'state' is used in that context in international law, not as a component of federation - for the purposes of international law. 
I come to this point: Here is a plain challenge to Australia. How can this country legislate with respect to the 200-metre mark outwards to hand it over to anybody in infringement of section 123 of the Constitution unless we know where the sovereignty lies? Now, my honourable friend from Stirling says: 'Irrelevant. You cannot hand over part of Western Australia, Arnhem Land or any other part of Australia to Indonesia'. Why is that so? The argument is that one would alter the boundary of a State. If the argument of the State Premiers is right, one cannot do the same with respect to the continental shelf. 
I come to New Guinea. This is the last practical observation that I will make on this point. The North Sea continental shelf case decided by the International Court of Justice laid it down that the median line, that is, the centre line, is not a customary rule of international law. So where we have 2 nations bordering each other, joined by a continental shelf, a dispute between them must be settled by argument and by negotiation. That is the essence, that is the ratio decidendi, of the decision of the International Court in the North Sea continental shelf case. 
It is seriously argued that Queensland can argue its case? Queensland has no inter- national personality. But I am left with the conclusion when I mention that to some State Ministers that I would almost be accused of declaring that they suffer from some form of social disease.  Sir, this  matter is too serious to be trifled with. The whole purpose of the High Court is to settle this sort of argument. It is all very fine to say that all arguments are political. Of course they are in the ultimate. The High Court is there to adjudicate for this precise reason. 
The last matter that I wish to raise concerns as grave a matter as anything that I have heard in this Parliament. I refer to the speech of my friend, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  My friend this evening has quoted or purported to quote from a speech allegedly prepared to be delivered by a former Minister for National Development. There is a very old convention of government that no letter, no preparation, no recording and no proceeding dealing with the Cabinets in preceding governments are to be disclosed until such time as allowed by law. This has been done on 3 occasions by this Government. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - I think it was in February of this year - whether he supported that convention and he said that he did. 
It has been broken. If this breaching of that convention is to be taken as representing nothing, we have come to a very sorry pass. I say to my friend, the honourable member for Blaxland - and there is a measure of friendship between us - that he was in grievous error this evening in making the claim that he did. To say that he did not get the speech, the letter or whatever it purported to be, from the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  did not exculpate him. I would suggest that it has exacerbated his position. How did he get the letter? How did he get what purported to be the speech? These are not, in my submission, trifling questions. These go to the whole foundation of government. If this Parliament is to tolerate a Minister's using what purported to be an exchange of correspondence between Ministers and their colleagues in former administrations, there is no health in them nor hope for them. But for a private member of Parliament to have access to these documents and to use them in the heat and thrust of political controversy - I say that minded as I am at the moment I would seek in the next few days an explanation from the honourable member for Blaxland as to how he came by it; otherwise I will move a censure against the Government led by the Prime Minister. 
I move: 
That the honourable member for Moreton be given leave to move that a select committee of this House be appointed to inquire into the circumstances whereby the honourable member for Blaxland came into possession of documents- 
The mathematics of the proposal put to the House by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  may shortly be stated. We are to have one and three-quarter hours to debate 82 clauses. From that position not even the ingenious mind of the Minister can rescue him. We are being offered the prospect of spending at the Committee stage approximately 1 minute 35 seconds on each clause. I say to the Minister: You are here this afternoon, the leading architect in constructing one of the major travesties of Parliament ever to be seen in this country and do not say for one moment that you are not. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - I feel desperately sorry for him - is beset with a number of problems. He suffers firstly from ailurophobia, that is to say, a morbid fear of cats. Here is the honourable gentleman also showing us that he suffers from impatience. 
As for the Minister for Services and Property, we listened this afternoon to a scared man. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is completely correct when he said what a pity it is that the honourable gentleman ever came back from London. When I heard that the honourable gentleman was coming back from 
London I took the matter a little further. I said: 'What a pity the Wright Brothers ever got busy'. The figures quoted by the honourable gentleman in regard to previous debates are, of course, utterly irrelevant. Here is a Bill putting before the Parliament radical alterations to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It ill becomes my friend the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  to turn up and say: 'All ignorance is on your side; all virtue is on ours'. The honourable gentleman is sopping wet with his own sophistry. I say this to the Minister for Services and Property: New Guinea is not the only place where 'pay back' is practised and the day will come when you will regret intensely the capricious action you have taken today. Even though we may have only 1 hour 45 minutes, let me say this to the Minister for Labour: We will make you remember every creaking, groaning second of that time. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is seeking to be modest. I do not wish to upset him but it is a role that he is desperately ill fitted to play. There is a very simple point involved here and happily it can be stated in simple terms. Is the Minister to have his own industrial police force or is the proposal to be governed by the Public Service Board? This is the question. The Minister, with his George Arliss instinct, cannot smile this away. The grey eminence is sitting there smiling. Every time he smiles he reminds me of the silver fittings in a crematorium. A very simple point is involved. One of the Minister's colleagues, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  dashed back from London to see us all and to bring gloom to our existence. What if he were to put in his Acts clauses to appoint particular people to police the various Acts which he is required to administer? I notice the Minister has left the table. There is no need for him to run away. I am not going to eat him. I have not got to the cannibal stage yet. Mind you, one would need to be hungry even to have a munch. 
What the Minister has to face up to is this simple point: Is he to be a power unto himself? I invite the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  to observe what is involved here. Is the honourable member prepared to give to the Minister for Labour of the day the power to appoint his own industrial police force, or does the honourable member not have a preference to have all of these people under the general superintendence of the Public Service Board? That is the proposition involved. Let us not be confused about it. The Minister for Labour seeks to be a champion obfuscater. This is the only point to be considered. It is of no avail to resort to levity of expression and to throw insults, however gentle they may be, aimed in the direction of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I ask the Minister: Do you want your own industrial police force or not? I ask him to answer that question. 
On reflection I often think that some of the supplications I direct in the direction of the Deity are mean and unworthy but having listened to the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  I am convinced that there are others whose prayers are not merely unworthy but impossible. 'God help us' he said. Keep God out of this, please. We are dealing with some proposals which should stand on their own in a secular sense. I want to remind my friend that it is almost 22 years ago to the day when a brave, bold, young, vibrant, colourful voice was sounded in this very chamber. It said: 
Never let us reverse the onus of proof. We have not stumbled on our way from Magna Carta, through the Bill of Rights, the Act of Settlement, through 2 great wars to have the onus of proof taken away, reversed by capricious government. 
And whose voice was that? It was the voice of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  This bold, mellifluous, vibrant, colourful voice, this engaging character who has insinuated his being into our very souls, this was the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
What was the occasion? He was speaking to the Communist Party Dissolution Bill. But put that to one side. Let us embrace the honourable member's principles, despairing as that may be. But on that occasion, I venture to suggest, the honourable member was right - dead right. I am sorry but I cannot stop merely at the adjective and leave it at that. Here it is in this provision. What the honourable member is doing is saying that it is a defence if the employer satisfies the court. I say to my honourable friend: 'Cannot we sweep you back through the years gone past - 22 years. Cannot you take up those old principles?' If the honourable member wants to be known as Australia's Wat Tyler or indeed as Australia's Number One Tolpuddle 
Martyr he will need to do a little better than he has been doing. Let no honourable member in this Committee or in the country be under the slightest doubt what this provision does. It confers on a trade union led irresponsibly the right to indulge in political strikes without any sanction being imposed upon it. 
This is a provision for industrial anarchy. I invite honourable members to listen to the language of the Bill which states: 'A person being an officer, delegate or member of an organisation can go into an industrial establishment' - I am paraphrasing - 'or elsewhere for the purpose of furthering or protecting the industrial interests of the organisation or of its members, being an act or thing done within the limits of authority expressly or impliedly conferred on him by the organisation.' Who on earth determines what is a purpose for the furthering or protecting of the industrial interests of the organisation? Let us take a case in point. The honourable gentleman may appoint one of his bosom pals - mind you he has not a very elaborate list to choose from - to be an industrial officer, who may decide to go into the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd works. He may further decide that it is lawful in the industrial interests of the organisation to stir up goodwill on behalf of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. So he may call a 2-hour strike. He may say to the workers: 'You must donate something towards the honourable member for Hindmarsh to protect him' or, in my case I would prefer to say 'for his embalming'. 
Under this provision of the Bill if the employer, the managing director of BHP, came down and being swept beyond human patience, said: T will have no more of this', and he gave the gentleman a kick in a certain place of the anatomy, what would happen? Under the provision introduced by the Minister the man's actions subjectively are in the industrial interests of the organisation. That is the first point to be observed. I do not want the Minister to become lachrymose. He is sitting there with his chin on his hand. Cannot he possibly try to take an intelligent interest in what is going on? Under this provision there is absolutely no form of redress that the general manager of BHP can resort to. If he is hauled before the court the onus of proof would be on him to satisfy the court. Really and truly, what the Minister is proposing is in essence the basic ground rules for industrial anarchy. The honourable member's experience of the shearing shed is a little behind him. That is conceded. But I remind the honourable gentleman that certain ground rules were to be observed there. We are not all masters of our own destiny. If the Minister is to insert in industrial legislation proposals of this kind the time may come when the horse will kick up its heels and strike at the Minister. 1 hope that it does not miss. 
When our courts look at an Act of Parliament and seek to interpret it for any reason they take no notice of the parliamentary debate connected with the Act of Parliament. There is a very simple and very sound reason for that. It is to be found, among other things, in this: In order to find out what is in an Act of Parliament it would be an exercise in futility to consider the debate linked with it. Without wishing to be abrasive to the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  I say that that was approximately the position in which he left us this afternoon. Our courts turn to the Act itself, unlike the French courts which indulge in the luxury of looking at what they call the traveaux preparatoire-the work that has been associated with the Act of Parliament in order to determine what it means. 
I must say that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has singled himself out and has given a quite dashing perform ance as far as this Bill is concerned. The honourable gentleman brings to political life a great number of skills, not the least of them being a massive sense of urbanity. The Minister was at his urbane best when he delivered the second reading speech on this Bill. He never at any time gave to the House the central purpose of the Bill and it is to no avail the honourable member for Hawker's going off and looking with an intense sense of anxiety at the diminution in Australia's control with respect to some companies. My honourable friend would act to better purpose to tell the House what are the possibilities of this Bill. It is to those possibilities that I want to turn. 
This ""Bill, whether honourable members agree with it or not, will enable certain things to be done. We will come to a consideration of my views later on. I know that I may have some difficulty in insinuating them into the minds of some of my friends on the Government side of the House, but at least I will attempt to do just that. This Bill will enable the Government to enter into business. Does anybody argue against that? It will enable the Government to enter into business on a massive scale. This Bill will enable the Government, through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, to take over any business. Does anybody argue that? Our Constitution, of course, presents formidable obstacles to the socialist who is attracted to the idea of socialising an industry - say, the steel industry. Simply because of the decisions of our courts he cannot get to them in the direct manner that a government working under a unitary system such as that of Great Britain would be able to get to them. There cannot be the one stroke to annihilate an industry and to put it under government control. I must admire the ingenuity of my friends opposite. This is one of the most ingenious devices ever used by any Government anywhere in the world in order to get government control, and to get it through a corporation. This Bill represents the most far-reaching savage attack on free enterprise that we have known in the 73 years of our Federation. 
 I will justify every syllable to the Minister before I sit down. By contrast the bank nationalisation proposals fade into insignificance compared with the potentialities of this Bill. It is possible under the Bill for the Corporation to reach out and to control any industry and to ensure that the industry in the ultimate does the bidding and the beckoning of the Government. Some spokesmen on the Government side have said: 'Oh, this is just a bit of tidying up of the AIDC. It is just a bit of tidying up. Nothing very radical about it, old chap; do not get fussed up. It is not worth getting prickly about at all'. That is the proposal they have sought to press upon us. The truth of the matter is that this is a street away from the present AIDC. 
I am thinking of a very long street - one that runs across the Nullarbor Plains. This is a substantial and radical alteration to the present Australian Industry Development Corporation Act. Look at what is proposed. We are to have an enlarged board. We are to have the National Interest Committee. What a vibrant connotation of words - the National Interest Committee. Who on earth would be opposed to the national interest? One can almost hear the Minister for Overseas Trade, having appointed members to the National Interest Committee, saying: 'Oh, look at him. He is a member of the National Interest Committee.' One can almost detect now a strong odour of sanctity about the National Interest Committee. And we are to have a National investment Fund. There is something quite robust about the word National'. Those people who are puzzled and worried a little as to what precisely will take place are to be sedated by means of a supervisory council. It brings one a great sense of comfort to have all of these bodies - the National Investment Fund and the National Interest Committee. 'Daddy, what does that man do?' 'Ob, sonny, he is a member of the National Interest Committee.' The supervisory council brings such splendid comforts. These bodies are the paraphernalia of respectability that the Minister for Overseas Trade seeks to confer. 
The fact is that these bodies represent collectively a desperate sham on the part of the Minister for Overseas Trade. Make no mistake about that. Let no person say later on that he did not know the gun was loaded. The real power in this Bill rests with the Minister for Overseas Trade. That is clear if one turns to proposed section 8 of the Act or clause 7 of the Bill. The most important part is proposed section 8B. It says that the Minister will from time to time write to the Corporation. We have the Corporation. It is there - founded on the corporation's power which has been considerably emancipated in recent times and goodness only knows precisely what limitations may be placed upon it. The Minister may write to the Corporation informing it of the policy of the Australian Government in relation to the establishment, development and advancement of an industry. That is the first action. I think that the Minister will be indulging in a lot of correspondence, from what I heard from some honourable gentlemen opposite. 
Then if the Corporation will not take any action - and it appears that it is within the functions of the Corporation - if the Board decides not to provide the finance, it reports back to the Minister. What does the Minister do then? The Minister, if he is of the opinion that it is in the national interest that the Australian Government should - there are the provisions - facilitate the provision of finance, or assist the Corporation to engage or participate in the enterprise or project, may go and have a chat with the Treasurer. Then hands will come out into the pocket of the taxpayer to provide it. What is the key to this 'In the opinion of the Minister'? That is the great enduring cry of all political conflict; - 'the Minister's opinion' - as though that is beyond any form of attack. I must confess for myself that I have the greatest of intellectual difficulty and understanding in appreciating various doctrines of infallibility, but let me say this to the Minister: I find it an annihilating experience to say that he should have in his hands the power to determine what is in the nation's interest. If that is the approach of the Minister I am grateful that at least in the first 12 months of Labor government we have found out exactly in what direction it is treading. 
The great cry is: 'Trust the Minister. The Minister cannot do any wrong.' I will give an illustration of how far Ministers can go wrong. Some time ago in the United Kingdom the mood of the socialist government of the day -  Mr Attlee's  Government - was to plan for the mechanised production of groundnuts in East and Central Africa. This was the great scheme. They started off with the same clarion call - the same strong, powerful, overwhelming, persuasive arguments about nationalism and assisting people - the hands of compassion stretching out to the hungry throughout the world.  His  Majesty's Government had therefore decided - that is to say, the Ministers - to proceed immediately with the development of approximately  3i  million acres of land in Tanganyika, Northern Rhodesia and Kenya on the general lines recommended by the mission. Having declared that, the Minister for Food,  Mr Strachey,  like all good Ministers keeping the House informed of what was going on, said: 
The House will wish to be informed- 
The same pretentious line that has not changed from one generation to another - of the steps which are being taken to ensure continuity of direction of the project for the large scale mechanised production of groundnuts and other agricultural produce in Africa. Clearance of the bush- 
The Minister said proudly - and other work on the project has already begun. As originally arranged the managing agents who are at present in charge wish to terminate their agency  . . Legislation necessary to set up a public corporation which will then take over will, as already announced, be introduced in due course. 
They, too, went for a corporation but the power remained always with the Minister. 
In the White Paper which was produced on the subject for those who pulled away from the idea of getting the groundnuts scheme under way in Africa there was this: 
If this large scale experiment succeeds, it may well prove to be an important step- 
One can almost hear the man reciting it - towards the Food and Agriculture Organisation's goal of a world free from want. 
That was a great socialist scheme. So we go along this road. Apparently things did not go too well, so they produced another paper to indicate exactly what was happening. Of course, it was in the lovely, subdued language of all the bureaucrats who would have the greatest of difficulty in even running a pie stall into bankruptcy. The paper said: 
Any estimate at this stage of the probable cost of the new scheme must be subject to a wide margin of error. 
That is lovely language - 'a wide margin of error'. In other words they were well off the track. It continued: 
But on the best information available- 
It is always the best information; it is not merely information - at present to His Majesty's Government, the amount required over the 7-year period will be of the order of 6m without allowing for contingencies for any bush clearing after 1954. 
They persisted. One must admire their sense of persistence. Then, alas, something happened. They ran into bad weather. They sent our large consignments of tractors and heavy machinery to East Africa to be unloaded from ships, and there they found out that there were no wharf handling facilities to unload the tractors. 
Bad luck, of course. I am indebted to my friend the honourable member for Wakefield for the manifestation of simple charity which deserts me. The scheme was wound up. It cost the British taxpayers 36m which was just written off. That is about all we found out. The Minister for Overseas Trade says: 'Trust me. We know best.' I want to ask the honourable gentleman what inbuilt safeguard there is in his approach to business life when he says: 'Ah, I will never make an error of the proportion of groundnuts. If you can trust me, I will be the one. My judgment will be superb in all manner of things.' Let me take a specific case. Proposed section 8 of the Act is the powerhouse of the Bill. The rest is persiflage. Already the Minister has put down 30 or 40 amendments to this proposal. But proposed section 8 is the powerhouse. Let us assume that the Minister writes to the Corporation, in courteous terms, as one would expect from him, and says: 'I inform you that it is the policy of the Australian Government to do something about increasing steel output in Australia'. This could well call for a large injection of funds into the steel industry in Australia. The Corporation comes back and says to the Minister: 'My Dear Minister' - with an appropriate touch of genuflexion - 'We do not think that it is really proper at this time to expand the steel industry. We think there are more urgent areas to be developed'. The Minister could then say: 'I have received that report from the Corporation'. The next step takes place. The Minister forms the opinion that it is in the national interest for him to move into Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Under the terms of this Bill it is quite possible for the Minister to go onto the open stock market and buy up literally every share available in BHP. I understand that there are of the order of 156.2 million BHP shares. The Minister can say: 'Buy them up, boys. It is only money'. If he got sufficient control of the shares he could get the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  on the board of BHP. Even the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  could go on the board. I suppose that would be preferable to joining the Court of St James. Does the Minister confute that? 
The Minister could turn round and say, as has been pointed out, in what is a declaration of political faith in clause 5 of this Bill: 'We want to get into the transport industry; R.M. needs stirring up. It is in the national interest.' So the Minister goes and buys up all the available shares in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd round the country, gradually inveigles his way in and gets control of the company. Then the Corporation can run where - along the lines of the groundnuts scheme? That is always the peril at the end of any socialist plan, any socialist program, and that is the central issue of this Bill. It is to no avail the Minister for Overseas Trade rising and saying 'Oh, but no, those fears are quite groundless; we are so reasonable', the urbanity of the honourable gentleman creaking even to the joints, the honourable gentleman posing as the man of great reason and of great understanding and so gentle. I have always admired the frankness of my honourable friend and the fact that he has never disguised for one moment that he is a deeply committed socialist but I must confess that he has brought a measure of chagrin to my miserable frame in that frankness seems to be deserting him. Under this Bill he has not sought to tell us all the facts. Why does my honourable friend not now recant and be frank and candid and tell us that under this Bill we can get into any business at all. The Minister can say: 'Buy out Mount Isa mines. The Corporation will take over. It is in the national interest to get things really cracking in the Mount Isa-Cloncurry district and stir things up there.' 
Somebody else could take over from Peak Downs in Queensland - another calamitous performance of a socialist government. I hope that members of this Parliament will understand what is involved. This is a clear and clever attempt by the Australian Government, committed by dint of its policy to an objective which I excuse myself from supporting in any shape or form, to do as I have said, and it is up to the people of this country to realise that this is what is in mind. If they realise what is in mind I do not think that the Australian Government will be in socialist hands for much longer. 
This motion will be carried. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has the numbers, and no person revels more in being in command of the numbers than does the honourable gentleman. But I say this to him: He will pass this motion but to the extent that he passes it he will seek to annihilate the spirit of this Parliament, and if he draws comfort from that he is .easily pleased. I say to the honourable gentleman that I am forbidden by the Standing Orders of this place to describe him in language that would seem to me to be appropriate. The honourable gentleman says that we have had this legislation on the stocks since 30 August and therefore there has been ample time to debate it. I say to the honourable gentleman that he is suffering from the Muenchausen syndrome. As far as the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is concerned, I say this to the honourable gentleman:  His  groaning condescension is matched only by his impertinence. If a person disagrees with the honourable gentleman he says: 'You are not being constructive.' That is the attitude of the totalitarian. 
The honourable gentleman does not like it. 
The obloquy which has come from the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  will fool no one at all. The honourable gentleman has sought to convince the Parliament by resorting to insults, and he has sought to do so by speaking in reasoned terms. The honourable gentleman has spoken reasonably in terms of quietness. He has reminded me, I must confess, of a very large, truculent, bull calf coming into the ring prior to being branded - destined to be ruined in more than one capacity. 
We make a mistake in treating the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  so generously. What a shy, fragile little being he has turned himself into this afternoon. He said to us: T would love to tell you the reasons why we must truncate this debate, but I dare not'. Since when has modesty consumed the honourable gentleman's being? He said to us: You have known all about this measure since 30 August'. But he did not say whether that is any indication that the Parliament has had an opportunity to debate it. I said to the honourable gentleman yesterday afternoon that I feared that he had become a victim of the 
Munchhausen syndrome. Fearing, of course, that the significance of that remark has escaped the honourable gentleman, 1 am bound to say to him that if he says that the Parliament has had an opportunity to debate this great issue, and if he means it, I can only accuse him of being the most polished tergiversator of our day. The honourable gentleman can find out what I mean by that. 
The Minister for Services and Property is seeking to build up for himself a reputation as the Stalin of Australian politics - the man of steel, smiling away. He cannot smile away the great traditions of this Parliament. Parliament is supposed to be a talking shop. The word comes from 'parle', meaning 'to speak'. 
The Minister for Labour, of course, has built up a sturdy reputation in Australian Workers Union politics. He is the only person ever to become the secretary of a branch of the AWU by his opponent dying during the course of a poll. If the Minister for Services and Property takes the view that he is doing a service to the parliamentary tradition I must - I hope with characteristic courtesy - say to him: 'You are in error'. It is to no avail for the Minister for Overseas Trade, in his unctuous, schoolmasterly fashion - if the Minister put his glasses on intellectually he would be better off - to seek to hector us and to lecture us. The honourable gentleman's days are numbered. I warn him of that. When the people of this country understand the miserable, contemptible way in which he is working on the parliamentary traditions, they will take to him like ants to a mutton chop - and I hope they do not miss one bit of the meat. 
My question to the Minister for Defence concerns the gathering of defence information. Does the honourable gentleman acknowledge that in the collation of information relating to this nation's defence it is legitimate for the nation to use such sources as may offer relevant information irrespective of the political complexion of those sources? Has the Australian Government declined to receive information from South African naval intelligence because of the racial policies of South Africa? Will he give this House an assurance that in the gathering of defence information it will be defence exigencies which will be in command and not political prejudice? 
I am, of course, a very sensitive soul. It is with a very great measure of reluctance that I observe that some time ago the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was in Washington in the United States of America. Where did he stay? At Watergate. Those poor unsuspecting Americans have been thinking for some years that  President  Nixon had something to do with the bugging of Watergate. I want to say this to the honourable gentleman: He is now seeking yet again to reduce Parliament to a complete formality. The honourable gentleman, depending on his wit, on 48 hours notice whistled away to find out who Baron von Munchausen was, and then returned. Parliament is a talking place. The word .---1- means 'to speak' or 'to talk'. Who is seeking to depreciate that? It is the Minister for Services and Property.  His  getting up and saying what happened 5 or 15 years ago is to no avail. I am talking about great principles, not about some idle pecccadilloes. This Parliament is being invited to make a decision in a very short time with respect to one of the most significant pieces of legislation- 
When the Minister for Health sits there he assumes all the appearances of an owl. When he opens his mouth he disposes of that. 
It seems quite clear that every generation is consumed with a sense of vanity. Every generation seems to take the view that it alone is confronted with a gathering of unique difficulties. What is more, every generation seems to take the view that it has its own emphatic remedy for any difficulty that may arise. Having listened to the speeches from Government members opposite - the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  and my friend, the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  - I am convined that in essence we are no different today. 
Of course, the truth of the matter is that when one deals with the question of restraint of trade one is dealing with a matter of very great antiquity. The early Egyptians 3,000 years before Christ were confronted with the problem of dealing with restraint of trade with respect to wool and clothing. There is nothing new about it. Some of the mummies to be found in the mausoleums would have dealt with this issue. Having listened to the debate, and without being offensive, I think their speeches would have been far livelier on this issue than some of the speeches I have heard from Government members opposite. Thales, the very early Greek astronomer, ascertained from the stars that there was to be a bountiful crop of olives. So Thales, not being a man connected merely with the stars, went out and hired months in advance all of the olive presses. So when it came to the olive crushing season there was Thales in command of all of the olive presses. Genius! Restraint of trade! Diocletian in the year 301 A.D. - I am bound to say that the Minister for Secondary Industry has a strong personal resemblance to Diocletian - had his problems with restrictive trade practices or restraint of trade, as it was known in those days. He had a simple remedy for it. Any person who infringed his system had his head cut off. At least this remedy had the charm of simplicity. About a century later in 483 A.D. there was the Constitution of Zeno. Fifteen centuries later that Constitution was to influence heavily, of all things, the Sherman Act in the United States of America. 
Dealing with our own Anglo-Saxon forebears, in pre-Norman times this was an issue. In the days of Edward III mere was the Statute of Labourers. I wonder whether my friends opposite would have any wish to see some of the restrictive trade practices observed by trade unions, artificers, artisans and labourers under this Bill. Like Pygmalion they would. In 1624 there was the Statute of Monopolies, and so it goes. So far as the development of the common law of our people is concerned, we find in the year 1894 the great landmark in the case of Nordenfeldt v. Maxim Nordenfeldt in which it was held by the House of Lords that the 2 criteria to be applied as far as the common law was concerned should be, firstly, that an agreement or a contract made between 2 people had to be reasonable between the 2 parties and secondly, it had not to be injurious to the public. From reading the speech of Lord McNaughten in the Nordenfeldt case one finds that he traces it with an exemplary touch of history back to Queen Elizabeth I. He says that in the days of Queen Elizabeth I all restraints of trade were void as being against public policy. He then went on to show how by dint of the fact of development of economic activity exceptions had to be made. A man sold his business. A man engaged an apprentice. The apprentice wanted to move from one place to another, and exceptions had to be made. 
Although it is a trite matter, it deserves to be stated that in the field of trade practices the common law probably has not kept pace with the world. I do not think to say that is any affront to the whole of the edifice of that remarkable achievement of our people the development of the common law. Besides the common law was concerned with contracts in restraint of trade; it was not concerned with practices in restraint of trade. So the problem of the Australian nation and of this Parliament today is to determine what sort of system to opt for to control restrictive trade practices, be they restraints of trade, be they unfair practices, or be they restrictive trade practices of the variety enumerated in this Bill. That is the question, and the Government has come up with the answer in this Bill. 
Upon listening to Government speakers, one would gather that this is a document of incredible and deep virtue. I hope before I sit down to show that that is not a well-founded contention. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said this afternoon without the slightest trace of ambiguity, there is no person sitting on these Opposition benches who is not politically and socially concerned with ensuring that the ravages of unfair competition, the ravages associated with restrictive trade practices, and the difficulties associated with unfair practices are not properly controlled. There is no ambiguity about our position at all, and I defy any honourable gentleman sitting on the Government benches to contest that statement. We stand for the control of those practices which are injurious to the public interest. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry interjects mumbling something about our record. Let me say to the honourable gentleman that if someone had backed him on his record yesterday as Red Hope he would have been left impoverished like me. The question is: What sort of system should we adopt? The Labor Government has proposed a system which consists of a commission on the one hand and of a tribunal on the other. Let us have a look at the system which embodies a commission. What qualifications will the Government accept when it appoints members of the commission? The Bill is silent on this matter. It is as silent as one of the mummies of 3,000 years before Christ who dealt with this problem. The Bill gives no indication in this regard at all. Could it be that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will get hold of one of the unemployed lion tamers or elephant trainers who has registered as unemployed, say, on the Gold Coast and who collects his social service payments? Will he employ one of these people as a member of the commission? What sort of talents- 
It is not a case of the honourable member needing taming; I think he needs a brand or two put on him. If one goes through the speech of the Minister for Secondary Industry or the speech of his colleague in another place,  Senator Murphy,  one will not find one word as to what qualifications we will be expected to respect in the members of the commission. It is not as though the members of the commission will use or wield some trifling powers. These are men into whose hands will be placed the most significant economic weapon, and an error of judgment on their part could conceivably reap the most significant economic damage, one way or the other. So the first revelation of this Bill is that the Labor Government which is seriously contending that it is concerned with restrictive trade practices is prepared to put into the hands of a body with unstated qualifications this most significant economic weapon. This is exacerbated by the fact that the number of commissioners is not specified. How many commissioners does the Minister have in mind - five, eight, fifteen? Is this to be another job for the boys? 
A person who is caught up - I will deal with this later - in any of the categories of restrictive trade practices has to submit to the judgment of people with unstated qualifications. I cull one out at random. This is a restrictive trade practice for the purposes of the legislation. The Bill states: 
A corporation that is in a position substantially to control a market for goods and services shall not take advantage of that position so as to engage in conduct directed to . . . deterring or preventing a person from engaging in competitive behaviour in another market. 
I ask my friend the Minister for Secondary Industry whether he would kindly give us an explanation of what he understands by the phrase 'substantially to control'. Does this mean 40 per cent, 50 per cent or 60 per cent? What is the size of the 'market'? Is it something around the size of, say, the city of Parramatta, Lake Eucumbene, the State of Victoria or the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia? What does my friend understand by the words deterring or preventing a person?' 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  asked this afternoon - with respect I adopt his argument which was supported by a very homely illustration - is a corporation which controls a supermarket in the suburb of, say, Mount Gravatt deterring a person from entering into that market place? This is the sort of slap-happy drafting which the Govern ment has put before us and which it expects the national Parliament to accept. Let me turn now to another illustration of what is involved. 
Being a person of infinite courtesy, I sat here and, even though I wanted to complain loudly, I did not interrupt the Minister when he was speaking. I know that Lent is a little way off, but he should get into practice and indulge in a little bit of silence. Let me turn now to what are described as 'unfair practices'. Proposed section 53, in paragraphs (a) to (g), deals with falsely doing things. There is no question of intent there. I ask the Minister to put himself in the position of a tractor dealer. I come along to him and, depending on his judgment, say to him: 'I want to pull some scrub in the outer Barcoo*. He says: I understand you completely. It will be a pleasure for me to help you'. He sells me a tractor. I am out there earning an honest buck, and then I want to do something at Cloncurry. Perhaps I want to move some ore. But the tractor breaks down. Under this legislation conceivably I could have the Minister in gaol for 6 months - although he knows that charity consumes me - because quite negligently and not necessarily falsely he may have said: 'I warrant that this is quite all right as far as you are concerned'. I then say: 'No'. I persuade the Attorney-General - I happen to be on Christian name terms with the Attorney-General of this country, something which I suspect some members of the Government front bench are not - to do something and he says: 'We will take some action about this'. The Minister is then brought before a court. Where does the onus rest? It rests on the Minister. This is done by these great advocates of the rights of the individual, those who would have us marching and singing 'The Marseillaise', 'Land of Hope and. Glory', 'The Red Flag'- I knew I would get it eventually - yet they talk about the onus of proof. 
Let me take the Minister to what is the centre of this Bill - the Commission and the Tribunal. I observe in passing, because time is belting into me a little, that both the Commission and the Tribunal - at least the presidential members of the Tribunal are to be legally qualified - have to determine the criteria to which they are to look to see whether something is acceptable or is to be authorised Proposed section 90. (5) provides the criteria offered to both the Commission and the Tribunal. Listen to what it says, because the Commission - that is to say those with unstated qualifications - will have to consider this language. It says:  the Commission shall not make a determination granting an authorisation unless it is satisfied that- 
That is a discretion not reviewable by any court - 
the contract, combination, act or course of conduct to which the application relates results, or is likely to result, in a specific and substantial benefit to the public . . . 
I hope that when the Minister replies he will tell us what he understands by 'a specific and substantial benefit to the public'. I venture to say that the phrase 'substantial benefit to the public' has never been examined by any court anywhere at any time. 'Public interest', yes; we understand what that means. But what is meant by 'substantial'? Let us put it in the balance. Is it 50 per cent? No, that is not enough; so kick it up. Is it 60 per cent, 70 per cent or 80 per cent? That is not enough. What I am inviting the House to consider is that under that criterion all that is available is a subjective judgment. I can point that up very quickly. What may be a substantial public benefit to me may well be regarded by the Minister as being an utter and raging anathema. 
The second criterion which is available is whether the thing to which the application relates 'has such a slight effect on competition'. What is meant by 'a slight effect on competition'? No information is given by the Minister or by the Attorney-General. This is one of the most incredible pieces of drafting that I have ever seen or that has ever been put before the national Parliament. This Bill has been drafted by those who now regard arrogance as being the right to administer anything they like in any fashion they like. If the Minister who is in control of this Bill- 
The Minister will need to do more than put on his glasses to explain to the House and the people what is meant by this incredible drafting. Let the Minister get on his feet and give us the highly dubious advantage of his advice on proposed section 90. (5). I wind up the short argument I have had the opportunity of adumbrating by saying that this is a slap-happy piece of drafting and deserves to be rejected. For that reason I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
The House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until there has been more adequate time to consider the implications contained in the provisions of the Bill'. 
No set of people need more time to understand the implications of the Bill than the members of the Government Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
I would seek your indulgence at the outset,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to offer an apology to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for my remarks last evening. On reflection, they were certainly intemperate. The only basis upon which I would seek any exculpation would be the fact that I was considerably aroused by the harshness of the guillotine put down by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  But I do offer my friend, the honourable member for Corio, my apologies. He is unfailingly courteous in the conduct of the business in the House, and if I have distressed him in any way I can assure him that it is a matter of regret to me. 
I turn to the definition section in this Bill. I observe that it is one of the most incredible definition sections which has ever been inserted in any statute of this Parliament. Some of the terms of definition in it are barely intelligible. I am quite sure that honourable members, and the public in particular, will be concerned with the sheer vagueness of some of the terms used. I will give an illustration. In clause 4 (2) this language is used: 
For the purposes of this Act, a corporation shall be deemed to be in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services if that corporation and any related corporation or related corporations are together in a position substantially to control that market. 
With respect, this is almost gibberish. I ask the Minister for Services and Property, in the absence of the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  to give us the advantage of his advice. What does he understand by the expression 'substantially to control a market'? 
I am dealing with clause 4. It is on page 4 of the Bill. It starts at line 29 and commences with the word 'For'. I hope the honourable gentleman has been able to find his way. If the Minister looks at that language I am sure that he will be puzzled by it. Indeed, the look of puzzlement sweeps over bis face - not for the first time, mind you, and probably not for the last time. What does the Minister understand by the expression 'substantially to control?' This is not mere control. If one is dealing with, say, 100 units in relation to some particular arrangement, the 'acquisition of 51 units would obviously suggest that there is control. But mere control, majority control, is not enough for the purposes of this Bill. It must be a substantial control. What does the Minister understand by this expression? The explanatory memorandum put out by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is deafening in its silence as far as these vague terms are concerned. It is quite silent on the point. It seems to me to be a scandalous waste of taxpayers' money to put out explanatory memoranda which do not explain the crucial points. 
It provides for one-third control. There is a definition in the existing Act and the language used in the existing Act refers to a dominant position, and then that dominant position is explained in terms of one-third control. Substantial control in some context could well be 60 per cent; it could be 70 per cent. I am sure that this is a fair question which I put to the Minister. I am sure that in his typical courteous fashion he will take an early opportunity to give us the benefit of his advice. 
While my friend is on his feet possibly he would care to explain to us what is meant by the word 'market'? Does it mean a market in terms of an entire State, or of a region, or, indeed, of Australia? If one were to take as an example the market of the sale of galvanised iron at Cunnamulla, that would be the Cunnamulla market. 
Yes, it is indeed, and it is in an area represented in a most distinguished fashion by my friend from Maranoa. If one takes as an example the Australian market for galvanised iron, one is dealing with an entirely different market. What is meant by the word 'market' in this context? To give a further illustration of the desperate absence of intelligibility in the definition section, let me turn to what is held out to be the definition of a consumer in proposed section 4 (4). That proposed section reads in this fashion: 
For the purposes of this Act, unless the contrary intention appears, a person shall not be taken to be a consumer of goods or services by reason that - 
he uses goods or acquires services for the purposes of, or in the course of, trade or business or for a public purpose; or 
he acquires goods for the the purpose of resale. 
With very great respect, if that clause were to be the subject of analysis by post-gratudate students in English I think they would come up with some curious results. What does the Minister understand by that clause? I know that by the majesty of his intellect we are but mere mortals, but no doubt we could be open to persuasion. I have enjoyed jousting with him for 18 years but I find him agreeable on some occasions. Mind you, one has to press hard on occasions to find the agreeableness, but I am sure that my friend will respond and tell us what he understands by the word 'consumer' in this context. 
I turn to clause 5. Again I invite the honourable gentleman to assist us please. We come as simpletons. We seek advice, and we seek some guidance from the Minister for Services and Property with his scintillating - one could almost describe it as seismographic - mind and the lovely, delicate, light touch which he flourishes in this place. I am quite sure that he will be able to reduce this matter to terms of intelligibility so that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and I - the two of us combined - may possibly be able to reach some measure of understanding. 
That might well be. My friend says that I am drawing the long bow. My friend the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  was a Professor of Economics and that is a rather heavy weight to carry in this place. But I am quite sure the honourable gentleman also would welcome some advice or instruction as to what is meant by clause 5 of the Bill. 
I come now to clause 6 of the Bill. During the course of my second reading speech I asked what were to be the qualifications of the members of the Commission. It is not as though it is a fatuous question. I respectfully submit that it is a crucial question. How many members are to be on the Commission? Plainly, according to the further provisions in the Bill there must be at least 3 members on the Commission. But is that number to constitute all of the members of the Commission? What puzzles and concerns me is the qualifications of the members of the Commission. They will be called upon to wield enormous powers - most significant powers. An error of judgment on their part could bring ruin to an industry - not merely to those who may own the industry in a material sense but to all of those people whose livelihood and entire material existence as employees depends upon that industry. They are called upon to exercise their judgment having regard to the most extraordinarily vague criteria ever put in a statute, certainly of this Parliament and I see nothing like it anywhere else in the world. 
Last evening, of course, I made some allegations regarding the slap-happy nature of the drafting of the Bill and my honourable friend from Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  joined me in those remarks. I submit that the criticism is well merited. I will give an illustration of the curious fashion in which the drafting has been done by turning to clause 19 of the Bill, which describes the way in which the Commission may sit in divisions. The language of clause 19 (1) states: 
The  Chairman  may, by writing signed by him, direct that the powers of the Commission under this Act in relation to a matter shall be exercised by a Division of the Commission constituted by the  Chairman  and such other members (not being less than two in number) as are specified in the direction. 
Chairman' in the definition clause of the Bill also includes a person acting as Chairman of the Commission. I invite this Committee to acknowledge that that definition encourages the question of whether it applies to a person not acting as a chairman on an ad hoc basis for a day, but acting as Chairman. The same clause 19-- 
Sitting suspended from 1.3 to 2.15 p.m. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 29. 
The Attorney-General may give directions to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this Act other than its functions and powers under Part VII, and the Commission shall comply with any directions so given. 
If either House of the Parliament or a Committee of either House, or of both Houses, of the Parliament requires the Commission to furnish to that House or Committee any information concerning the performance of the functions of the Commission under this Act, the Commission shall comply with the requirement. 
This is a simple illustration of the thesis which the 
Opposition has been propounding during the course of this debate both in the second reading stage and in the present Committee stage, namely, that this Bill has been drafted in a hurry and lacks what one may describe as the perfection of draftsmanship It is incredible to believe that these amendments would now be circulated so soon after the Bill had been drawn. It is not as though the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has given us any simple explanation of why this amendment has been brought about. One would have thought, having regard to the circumstances, that he would have endeavoured to have given something in the nature of an elaborate explanation, but he was brevity in the extreme. It was a welcome change, I am bound to observe, but why was there no explanation from him? There are 5 amendments. This amendment seeks to add a further provision to clause 29 without explanation. I wonder why? I only hope that the people of the country will take heed of the manner in which the Minister has treated this Committee. It is a little difficult to encourage him to be at his charming best all the time, but we have been trying to deal with this Bill in a quiet, reasonable fashion and all our attempts have been treated with contempt by the Minister. This is a simple but emphatic illustration of the hurried fashion in which this Bill has been drawn. 
 I am sure that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  will regret the rather extravagant observations he has made concerning one or two honourable gentlemen on this side of the House. The fact that one of my friends happens to be wearing a rose - it has been described by the Minister for Immigration as a royalist rose - I do not think would sear the feelings of the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  in the least. I simply observe to the Minister for Immigration that on some occasions I fear for his safety because I am sure that he could be imprisoned in a bowerbird's playground. I want to draw the Committee's attention to what I regard as being a very serious deficiency in the Bill. I hope that the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  will be persuaded to agree with me. That is on the question of appeals on a question of law from the Tribunal to a court. 
Yes, dealing with the composition of the Tribunal. 
I am dealing with the composition of the Tribunal and the fact that there is nothing in this respect in those clauses. If I can illustrate my argument to my friend by turning to the existing Act, we find in the existing Act that there is a Review Division of the Trade Practices Tribunal. It is composed of 3 presidential members, other than the presidential member who may have sat on an issue and been a party to a determination. From that Review Division of the Tribunal provision is made in section 65 of the existing Act for the Tribunal on its own motion, if it thinks fit, or on the application of a party to refer a question of law arising in proceedings before it for determination by the Court. The Court here, of course, is the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
I posit this situation to the Minister for Secondary Industry. The Commission has a matter before it and it makes an adjudication; it gives a determination. If the party which has been brought before the Commission has a sense of outrage, be it justified or not, it has the right of appeal- 
It is not. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

If the honourable member for Phillip looks at Part III and Part LX he will find that they are very much interlaced and interwoven. We cannot have a clear division one from the other. I think that the position is as simple as that. Under these proposed provisions, let us take it that the Commission makes a determination. The party aggrieved can then appeal to the Tribunal on the question of fact. That is substantially the case. But take the assumption that the Tribunal makes an error with respect to law. This is where the difficulty arises. Is any person seriously saying that there should be no right of appeal where an error has been made with respect to law. It is all very fine for people to say that the prerogative writs are at their disposal. Given a set of circumstances, they could be extremely difficult to invoke. 
I hope that the Minister will give some consideration to .the deficiency, as I have seen it. The last observation that I make pertains to clause 31 which is one of the clauses which we are taking together. The Minister will see in this clause that the qualifications of the lay members of the Tribunal are broadly sketched. This morning, I asked his colleague, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  why there was no statement of qualifications with respect to commissioners? I think that this is a fair question. I invite the Minister to answer it. 
I move: - 
That under the provisions of standing order 236 this Bill be recommitted. 
This is one of the most extraordinary episodes in the parliamentary history of Australia. This House has been given 4 hours to debate a Bill of immense economic and social significance. Honourable members were given 3 hours in Committee to consider 169 clauses - 210 minutes to consider 169 clauses. This works out at approximately 1.25 minutes per clause. If there is any reason why the Bill should be recommitted that reason will be found in the speeches of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby).  It is quite clear that neither of those honourable gentlemen, who at one time or another have been in charge of this Bill, has read the Bill. If the Minister for Services and Property had to put his hand on the Bible and swear to whether he had read the Bill the honourable gentleman would find himself in an acutely embarrassing position. What a disgrace it is to find in charge of a Bill 2 Ministers who have not read that Bill. 
What is the argument used by the Minister for Secondary Industry? He said that we have had since 1961 to consider this measure. Let that be conceded. The humanities have had thousands of years to consider the ramifications of sin. We on this side of the House are not concerned about the outlawing of monopolies or restrictive trade practices - we are agreed with the Government on the need for this to be done - but we are concerned about the system by which it will be done. Our submissions have been along the lines of pointing out to the Government, and in particular to the Minister for Services and Property and the Minister for Secondary Industry, that this is an imperfect system. 
I will illustrate that point very quickly to the honourable gentlemen. Surely it is not* within the Government's consideration that an everyday arrangement such as, say, a hire purchase agreement should be caught up and enmeshed within the provisions of clause 45 of this Bill. There are more than 1.2 million hire purchase agreements in existence in this country today. But conceivably under this provision hire purchase agreements can be completely outlawed. Surely it is not the intention of the Minister that that should be so. I invite him to consider the ramifications of that one illustration which I have given. 
The second ground upon which this Bill should be recommitted is in the attitude of the 2 Ministers. The Minister for Services and Property was asked this morning in a very civil and proper fashion to give some explanation of certain matters. Has he given that explanation? No, he has not. He was asked questions such as would he please explain what is meant by the expression 'substantially to control'. Does it mean a control in terms of 60 per cent or 70 per cent? It was pointed out to the Minister that a mere control was not enough; it had to be a substantial control. The honourable gentleman was asked to give an explanation of this. The honourable gentleman was asked a series of questions by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  Were any answers forthcoming from the Minister? No, there were not - not one. 
I come now to the speeches made by the Minister for Secondary Industry. At least he did, under considerable pressure, offer an explanation as to why there were no appellate provisions on the question of law as distinct from on the question of fact. The honourable gentleman gave a reply which can best be described as dubious. The fact of the matter remains that the parliamentary tradition is heavily embarrassed and heavily attacked when the Parliament itself behaves in this fashion. Let me say to honourable gentlemen opposite that I have always objected to the guillotine device, and I have done so more particularly when matters of great moment have had to be discussed. During the time when I sat on the other side of the House I raised my voice in protest and my vote was in protest against what took place. What has occurred today is quite beyond all realms of toleration. I refer to the fact that a Bill of 169 clauses and of immense significance has been debated and dismissed in 210 minutes. Is there any member of the Australian public who would regard this as being a satisfactory way for the national Parliament to behave? I say to the Minister for Services and Property that he has behaved in a disgraceful fashion, and that is about the kindest thing that I can find to say of him. 
I invite the Government to consider what it is doing on 2 grounds. I ask it to consider the significance of the measure. We are agreed as to the need to control and to regulate the practices which are involved, but we are concerned with the imperfection of the system which the Government offers. It has given scant attention to this system itself. It has thrust the Bill through all stages in a matter of 210 minutes. I appeal to the Minister - I hope it will not be a forlorn appeal  -  to regard the attack, the savaging, of the parliamentary institution on that basis, if on no other. I hope that the honourable gentleman will respond to the appeal I make so that the House can go into Committee and consider with a fresh and, I hope, a patient eye some of the implications which are involved. 
 It is not a case of being able to move a single amendment. 
 The Minister is now saying that we did not try. We reached the stage of considering clauses 45 to 51 when time ran out. There are another 120 clauses to be considered. I can assure the honourable gentleman that if I had the opportunity when we came to considering clause 90 he would have found out whether he had some amendments on his hands. The honourable gentleman apparently wants them engraved in Sanskrit or something and dumped on his table in front of him before he would understand what is involved. The appeal I make to the House is based on 2 grounds. The first is the absolutely clear fact that the Government itself has not the foggiest idea of what is in this Bill. It is all very fine for the Minister for Secondary Industry to say that the officers who drafted this Bill were the same officers who served governments of our kith in years gone by. That is not in contest. The reputation and integrity of the officers :s in no way under challenge. What is under challenge and in question is the quality and the character of the instructions which the Government gave to those officers to draw this Bill. It is all very fine to use such robust language as: 'We need a Bill with teeth'. I suppose some lions have teeth, too - maneating lions at that. Surely the Minister will not regard that as a satisfactory explanation for dismissing consideration of a Bill of this significance. 
The second ground, and I suppose the more substantial ground in the ultimate, for wishing to have this Bill recommitted is the damage which is being done to this Parliament by the fashion in which massive legislation is pitched through the House in scant time. What is the point in having a Parliament? If the Parliament cannot and will not consider matters of significance, the only other place in which people will be given an opportunity to consider them is in the street. Surely that is not the wish of honourable gentlemen opposite. As long as we can preserve the right of free men and free women .to discuss in a free, responsible and rational way matters of policy and matters which concern the safety of the state then the state is in effect assured of a safe position. But honourable gentlemen opposite, brick by brick, are demolishing the safety of the state by the manner in which they are behaving. I make this appeal to them today. Maybe it will be a forlorn one. Yet at some time people will come back into this House and show them how to behave with responsibility. 
Parliament is in the plainest danger of becoming a complete and utter farce. Not only the people who sit in this chamber, but also the people throughout the nation, should apprehend this fact. It could well be that there is no need for application of the guillotine on these measures, though I have not seen the list of speakers and I do not know how. many of my colleagues on this side of the House wish to speak. It could well be that by adopting a quiet and responsible approach to this crucial issue, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  could have the 3 Bills passed through the House in a shorter time than he has propounded. 
Government is not a matter of instinct or prejudice. If we are not at liberty to discuss vital matters affecting this country, there is no point in our coming here at all. It is not every day of the week that a nation working under a federal structure turns to alter its Constitution. The Government is proposing 3 very significant alterations to the Constitution. I suggest that the ramifications of these amendments can be seen only by close examination and the free exchange of ideas, and this must be done in a leisurely fashion. If the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  constantly wants to impose fierce, unreasonable guillotines in this House, he is making a rod for his own back. The honourable gentleman is taking the view that he has the numbers today, but he should remember that the one who is on top today could well be the one who falls down tomorrow. I ask him, as one of the great Latin scholars in this place, to bear in mind the dictum facilis descensus Averno 
 It is my hope and expectation that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  must stand in contemplation of disappointment, for I am sure that when this proposal is understood by the people it will be rejected. The honourable gentleman this afternoon has sought to encourage the House to accept one simple proposition, which is that this Bill is a simple measure merely calling for the simultaneous .election of both Houses of the Parliament. 'Why', said the honourable gentleman, with his magnificent sense of exuberance, 'are you opposed to it? Why not let the people decide? Why not let them adjudicate on the merits of this issue?' I do not contest that in the least; nor did the founders of our Constitution contest it. Under section 128 of the Constitution, if either House of the Parliament passes a Bill for a referendum and the other House refuses to pass it, the Governor-General, upon the expiration of 3 months, may - the operative word is 'may' - submit it to the electors. The fact that that provision is in the Constitution argues 2 things, I submit. Firstly, it argues that both Houses of the Parliament are under the plainest duty to turn, with a measure of honest scrutiny, to a proposal for a referendum that comes before them. Otherwise why put it in the Constitution? If the Minister cares to read the Convention debates dealing with this matter - that is an exercise that would enlighten him and make our life much more tolerable - he will find that what I am putting is quite true. 
The second proposition I put to the honourable gentleman is that there can be no suggestion of holding back a measure from the adjudication of the electorate, provided it has passed one House of the Parliament. According to the honourable gentleman's argument as he has trotted it out this afternoon, all we have to do is to put up our hands and say that we are all for letting the people decide, without attempting to exert ourselves in the least, either physically or intellectually, to find out what it is all about. 'Trust the people', says the Minister. Let me repeat it so that the words will sink into his sponge-like existence: Trust the people'. I invite the honourable gentleman to trust the people. He belongs to a party that subscribes to the abolition of the Senate. 
Why does not he submit that proposal to the people? Here is a glorious opportunity to do so: we have a Bill already drafted before us. Will the honourable gentleman accept an amendment to provide for the deletion of all those provisions in the Constitution relating to the Senate? 
The honourable member for Adelaide happens to believe in the uni-camera] system. I do not That is one of the distinguishing features between the two of us. It is one of the reasons why this afternoon I ask the Minister, who, with boisterous exuberance, has invited us to trust the people, why he does not take the opportunity when it is presented to him. The honourable member for Adelaide has an assessment of his own level of intelligence that is in inverse proportion to what his level of intelligence is. Today the Minister for Services and Property is saying to the Opposition: 'Why don't you trust the people?' I say to the Minister: "Why don't you trust the people and ask them to give their views on whether the Senate should be retained?' Listening further to the argument put forward by the Minister, one would think that for the last 30 or 40 years this country had been in a state of tumult, with a multiplicity of elections. 
I did not hear the speech of the Prime Minister - no discourtesy meant on my part - but I have read it with close attention and I am bound to say to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Services and Property that I have a very considerable degree of sympathy with the arguments advanced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
What were the arguments? He said that elections were too frequent. I do not contest that proposition in the least. I think that it is a simple, uncluttered statement of fact. Further, he said that elections are too costly. Again, I do not contest that. The Minister for Services and Property this afternoon has put into Hansard for us all to read the approximate cost of holding elections in present times. The Prime Minister further said that frequent elections make the working of Parliament difficult. Further - this is a gloss on the other argument he put - it is to the detriment of the public purse to have frequent elections. Not one of those propositions would I find myself in any measure of disagreement with whatsoever. But what does the Government propose to do in an attempt to cure all that is involved here? It seeks to amend the Constitution. 
The Minister could solve this problem in a matter of a few months. He has said that we might be facing a double dissolution sooner than we think. I think that he is the one who should tremble because he will have to find out that the trams of Sydney are still a little on the hard side. If he has to go back to cabs he will find that they are probably a little uncomfortable for his liking. Why does the honourable gentleman not say here: 'In the next few months we can take the House of Representatives to the people with the Senate.' Why not? In 1963  Sir Robert  Menzies asked the then Governor-General to dissolve the House of Representatives and we went to the people. There was no inhibition there. What is wrong with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Services and Property - that well known supporter of the gubernatorial establishment - going out to the Governor-General and saying: We want you to dissolve the House of Representatives'? 
The Government has a thundering good reason for a dissolution. We want to bring together the elections of both Houses of the Parliament to cut out the need to have elections at odd times. It would be possible to avoid the frequency of elections and the additional cost that the Prime Minister spoke about - the detriment to the public purse. The Government would be able to ensure a smoother working of the Parliament. What is wrong with my honourable friend the Minister for Services and Property? Why this shyness? Why this taciturnity? It is unlike him. I suggest that the honourable gentleman must be under some severe form of pressure. We have not heard from him on these points. He has a passionate attachment for doing things in simple fashion. Here is a remarkably simple way of solving the problem. The Government would be able to avoid holding a referendum. The Minister should think of the cost that could be saved. The honourable gentleman would be able to say to his colleagues and to the rest of the country: 'A great brainstorm hit me.' That would be a remarkable event. However, we could all look at the consequences with amusement. He could say: T have been able to find a way of saving money. I suggest that instead of holding a referendum to provide for both Houses to be elected together, we simply go out to the Governor-General and invite him to allow us to have the elections of the House of Representatives with the Senate elections.' 
 My honourable friend is not as unreasonable as he tries to make out. There are occasions when there are displays of reason by the honourable gentleman. I indicate to him now that when he comes to have dinner with me tomorrow night, on his performance to-day, he will need to bring a food taster with him. What is wrong with adopting the proposal I suggest? There is not one of the elements of argument put by the Prime Minister that could not be met in the simple fashion that I have put forward. But what would be the overall effect if this Bill for a referendum were to be passed and the matter were put to the people and carried? It would make the Senate, in a very real sense, the potential victim of the political distemper of this chamber. Having regard to some of the displays of distemper that I have seen opposite, that would put the country in very substantial jeopardy. 
Let me illustrate the point. I put it by way of hypothesis, not by way of insult, intended or otherwise. Assume that the Prime Minister finds himself beseiged by the supporters of the Federal  President  of die Australian Council of Trade Unions and there is a significant shearing away of support for him in his government. In the course of the next 2 or 3 months this may be the likelihood. It may not be as unreal as one would imagine. It would mean under this proposal that if this House had to be dissolved the Senate would have to be dissolved. So the caprice of political behaviour in this chamber would be the determining factor for the Senate. For very sound reasons the provisions relating to a double dissolution were put in the Australian Constitution. Section 57 was put there only after the most elaborate and exhaustive debate. This was part of the compact of Federation to ensure that if there were disagreements between the 2 Houses there would be a set way of providing for those disagreements to be resolved. 
Speaking for myself, I have no objection whatsoever to the Senate's rejecting as many Bills as it wishes, save one notable exception - a supply or appropriation Bill. I make that exception for technical reasons. The will of the people could be frustrated if the situation were otherwise. But in this instance, for example, a Bill relating to the provisions of conciliation and arbitration or a Bill relating to the Electoral Act or any other Bill could be rejected by the Senate. Then the mechanisms of the Constitution could be brought into play. If we try to do it otherwise it must significantly disadvantage some of the provisions of the Constitution. That is the main reason, that I oppose this Bill in this House and would oppose the Government's proposals in the country if a referendum were held. This Bill, if it and the subsequent referendum proposals were carried, would largely suffocate the provisions of section 57 of the Constitution - not merely trench upon it but suffocate it. It would mean that every time there was a political disturbance in this House which forced the Leader of the Government of the day to hand in his commission or, rather more pointedly, to go to the Governor-General and say 'I ask you to dissolve the House of Representatives' the effect of that would simply be that half of the Senate would have to stand for election again for no reason at all other than a political disturbance which had taken place in this chamber. 
In the Constitution, the provisions relating to dissolution of the Senate are quite clear, It refers to the dissolution of the Senate; not of part of the Senate. The whole of the history of the provisions relating to the dissolution of the Senate hinge on the fact that if Bills are rejected twice by the Senate and it appears that the will of the majority of the people - the popular will - is in any way being frustrated, the Constitution enables those provisions to start to move and it enables the country to be kept in a measure of stability. Surely it is one of the aims of government to have stability; not some dull, mould-like stability, but stability in government to ensure that the whole parliamentary process is enabled to work safely. What is being proposed by the Labor Government today is a significant attempt to undermine the Constitution not for the sake of convenience - if mere convenience were the argument here we could meet it rapidly in 3 or 4 months' time - but to undermine the Constitution in a way which, frankly, I do not think the Government quite comprehends. If convenience were at stake I am sure that the Minister would respond to the suggestion I made to him. 
I notice him smile with the utmost affection as I say that. But as he reflects on the suggestion he may ascribe to that view. 
Let me put it this way to the Minister. If the referendum were to be carried, say in May next year, it would not be until the next elections were held for the House of Repre sentatives that the Government would be able to pull out half the Senate. So, half the Senate today would be brought out in another 18 months or 2 years following upon the Senate election in May. I ask the Minister to look closely at that proposal. If he does, he will see the incredibly stupid position into which he has launched the Government. 

 - Mr Speaker, with the greatest of reluctance I move: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 
I would commence by joining with you,  Mr Speaker,  in referring to standing order 263, which states that no Bill that seeks to alter the Constitution shall be carried unless on the third reading the motion is carried by an absolute majority of the House. No honourable member on either side of the House is in doubt about that point. There is only one way in which it can be tested that there is an absolute majority, and that is by dint of a division. 
I am indebted to my friend for asking about a count. You cannot have a count unless a division is called for. This is the dilemma in which this House finds itself this evening.  Mr Speaker,  may I posit this assumption to you: Assume that there were 58 members of the Parliament sitting here prior to the third reading and the question was put by yourself: 'That this Bill be read a third time. Those of that opinion say 'aye', and there was then a chorus of ayes, 58 of them, and you then said: 'Of the contrary "no"', and there was a deathly silence. How do you satisfy the requirements of standing order 263? 
This is not a matter of coming off it, my dear chap, and rules are to be obeyed. This is the position,  Mr Speaker,  in which you found yourself, and 1 say this with unfeigned affection for you. You come to standing order 193, which deals with divisions. We are dealing with a very serious matter. We are not dealing with the rules for the hillbillies from the outer Derwent. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. It concerns the establishment of an institute of international law. By way of very brief preface may I observe that a very distinguished former Foreign Minister whose career was somewhat disturbed by the vagaries of political existence - I refer to  His  Honour 

 Mr Justice Bowen said in this House on one occasion that be saw very considerable merit in the establishment of such an institute. I ask the Prime Minister, having regard to the Law of the Sea Conference to be held next year and the great complexities attaching to determining a regime for the control of the seabed, whether he will consider making a contemporary assessment of the merits of such a suggestion. 
I have but 3 minutes before the guillotine falls. Therefore, the tumbrel must move swiftly. I think that 3 minutes is quite ample time in which to explain why there is no necessity for this Bill. The whole purpose of the referendum procedure is to enlarge the powers of Parliament, and the referendum procedure was devised with precisely that in mind. What is offered by this Bill? What is offered is nothing more than an attempt to declare rights as seen by some members of this Parliament. If one turns to the various clauses in the Bill one sees that that is just the case. For example, if one turns to clause 4 one finds a proposal which seeks to have divisions of people that shall be as nearly as practicable the same. Does anybody say that this Parliament does not have that power today? It is here. 
Further on the Bill contains an arrangement that there shall be reasonable conditions relating to elections. The only new thing in this Bill, in respect of which this Parliament does not have power, is power to control the States. This has been the lamentation of honourable gentlemen opposite. If they are so virtuous about expressing their concern for State parliaments why do they not turn their attention to some of the local government authorities? Or am I to understand from the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that he takes the view that virtue is all right done on a regional basis but, when it comes down to the brass tacks of running local government authorities, we can have gerrymanders there in the plainest extent? This Bill is a spurious attempt by the Government to encourage the view throughout the nation that the Commonwealth Government has been created on the basis of gerrymandering. One has only to state the proposition to see the absurdity of it. The Government was elected in precisely the same circumstances as the previous Government was elected. There was no substantial alteration. I think it is a gratuitous insult to the civil servants of this country who administer the legislative procedure to suggest that gerrymandering can and does occur. 
The last thing I want to say to the Minister for Services and Property is that he has been travelling around the world for months investigating voting conditions, ensuring that he can pick up something that might help him on his way. Every time anything is mentioned to do with voting conditions the honourable gentleman starts to behave like a fussy old governess - and one riding side saddle at that. The simple truth is that the honourable gentleman has brought nothing back to this Parliament from his experiences. This Bill is a spurious Bill. It reflects an attempt by the Labor Government to declare in some curious fashion what is in fact a political battle cry. The Minister could not explain to the House what is meant by 'as nearly as practicable'. He did not attempt to explain it. What is nearly as practicable to the honourable gentleman may in the eyes of his friend the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  be thoroughly impossible. The simple truth is that the Constitution should not be subjected to having this sort of rubbish put into it. 
On that note I finish. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be read a second time. 
This is the Mediterranean of this Bill's proposal, because it seeks to confer upon the Commonwealth Parliament power to legislate directly for local government bodies. I eschew the temptation to deal with any second reading consideration, but I want to invite the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is directly concerned, to consider quite directly what is involved in conferring upon this Parliament power to legislate with respect to borrowing of money by the Commonwealth for local government bodies. It is to state the obvious to state that this Parliament in no direct sense has control over local government bodies. The creation, the destruction, of local government bodies is a matter entirely within the province of State Parliaments. I would illustrate this very quickly for the benefit of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  by saying that the New South Wales Parliament snuffed out of existence the life of the Sydney City Council. And it restored it. No greater legislative power can be imagined than the power to create and the power to destroy. What would the Prime Minister say if, as a matter of pique, the Government of Tasmania should seek to convert what may be its 20 local government authorities into 5 local government authorities? 
 There are 49. I am indebted to my honourable friend for his interjection. What would happen if Tasmania decided to translate its 49 local government authorities into five or ten? The scheme made by this Government relating to the 49 local governments authorities could be emasculated effectively simply by an Act of a particular State parliament. Let us take the case of Queensland with its immense number - almost a phethora - of local government authorities. The Queensland Parliament in quite distinctive circumstances substantially altered the 'boundaries of the Greater Brisbane City Council. What if the Government had made a commitment to the previous Brisbane City Council for a particular proposal and, when it turned around, found itself in the position of having to face an entirely different character of local government? I submit that this is a classic illustration of the planner proceeding on the basis that he has a fixed set of circumstances to deal with. The simple truth of the matter is that this Parliament has no power to create tocal government authorities and no power to destroy local government authorities, but the States have that power. I invite my friend the Prime Minister to say what is wrong with dealing directly with the States. Suppose a local government authority came along -be it the Beaconsfield local government authority or the Outer Barcoo local government authority - land said:  'Mr Prime  Minister, we are in trouble. We would welcome your assistance. We would value your support.' He would say- 
 I am grateful. I have a few other questions to ask. I was not the one who applied the guillotine; you were the one who applied the guillotine and you object to questions being asked in this field. I have a whole catalogue of questions to put down and I have the greatest of doubt whether my friend the Minister could answer one of them, even vaguely. I think he would get 5 per cent of the marks for good writing and nothing else. The second question I want to put is: Why seek to alter section 51 of the Constitution? The whole of the borrowings of this Parliament are involved in section 105. I venture this view to the Prime Minister: If this referendum gets to the people and is passed by the people it could well involve the country in a celebrated court case - not that I object to litigation, no matter where it occurs. Section 105a(1) of the Constitution provides: 
The Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to the public debts of the States including- 
The borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth, or by the Commonwealth for the States. 
Why not seek to alter section 105a of the Constitution? Why seek to confer a plenary power in section 517 I suggest that, on the assumption that the Government received a plenary power under section 51, this could well be in direct conflict with section 105a. If my honourable and learned friend reads on in section 105a he will find the following provision: 
The powers conferred by this section shall not be construed as being limited in any way by the provisions of section 105 of this Constitution. 
This seems to me to involve the Government in a headlong conflict. I am sorry,  Mr Chairman,  that the simple exigencies of time- 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this morning has - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: That the question be now put. (The bells being rung) - 
Question put. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Defence, concerns patrol boats. I ask: Does the honourable gentleman agree that patrol boats now in service with the Royal Australian Navy fulfil a more than useful role carrying out fisheries protection, surveillance duties and sovereignty visits? If so, will he give to the House an explanation as to why the Government has decided to give patrol boats to Indonesia? 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has a very robust approach to politics which of course he expresses in a very exuberant and, at times, boisterous fashion. To some of us, of course, it is a source of constant entertainment. To others it punctuates an otherwise dreary existence.  His  approach though is marked by one narrow furrow by way of an objective, and that is to get power and to keep power - and, of course, he has never disguised that for one moment and he is to be heartily commended. But I must confess that my friend puzzled me somewhat this afternoon when he turned to my colleagues in the Country Party and said: 'To describe this in this fashion would be to describe it most charitably'. Since when has the honourable gentleman ever inclined his being in the direction of charity? This would be something that I would find a matter of some puzzlement. 
But then the honourable gentleman also turned to Quick and Garran and he said: 'I hope the honourable member for Moreton will follow me through to make sure I am observing my lessons as a lawyer'. It is an absolute delight for me to find that the honourable gentleman, at long last, is observing some measure of discipline with respect to the Constitution, and that he should ever feel disposed to quote Quick and Garran was a contemplation that was never within my mind. So what a joyous afternoon it is for me to find, on a variety of counts, that the honourable gentleman has put himself into this engaging, this fascinating, this fragrant state of mind. He quoted from Quick and Garran, but what a pity that my friend did not continue to quote from it. He left out what I would have thought was the nub of this discussion. So if I may - continuing in the role of the instructor - indulge in a little bit of didacticism, let me continue a little further with the quotation from Quick and Garran. The honourable member was right; he had the right page, 993. He was right there. But the learned authors went on to say: 
If a majority of the States had been ignored- 
And here they are discussing the method of altering the Constitution - the Federal element in the structure of the Commonwealth would have been impaired and whittled away. 
What does the honourable gentleman say to that? Why did he not continue? There is no point in seeking to gain knowledge if you only go half way; go the full way. I am sure the Minister will benefit from it. 
However, I ask the Minister to listen and not to get too impatient for knowledge. The learned authors go on to say: 
In a unified community it would be sufficient if a majority of the people sanctioned a revision of the Constitution. In a Federal community, in which the National and State elements co-exist, a modification of the fundamental law, without the approval of both the people and the States, would he unjust and repugnant to the whole scheme of government. 
Here the honourable gentleman embraces one sentiment of Quick and Garran which, with a great flourish he seeks to invoke to his advantage. What does my friend say about the other sentiment? Would he agree with Quick and Garran that it was unjust? Would he agree with Quick and Garran that it would be repugnant to the whole scheme of government to ignore the position of the States? The honourable gentleman cannot approbate and reprobate, and this is one of these severe disciplines that I suspect he will really have to turn his mind to in order to ensure that he has a clear approach to constitutional problems. 
Having said that, may I turn to what I have invited the honourable gentleman to acknowledge is the nub of this issue. I would, by way of introductory remarks, say that the Government surprises me with its measure of impatience. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has long entertained that there are blemishes as far as the Australian Constitution is concerned. I know that he has always held out, in the boldest of frames of mind, that the Constitution should be altered. One may indulge in the luxury of seeking to agree with him in some respects, but what puzzles me on this occasion about the Government which the honourable gentleman leads is the impatience, having regard to the fact that a Constitution Convention was held in Sydney a short time ago and that at that Convention, with the agreement of all of the States and with the agreement of the Commonwealth delegation, of which the Prime Minister was the distinguished leader, committees were set up to investigate various areas of constitutional reform. This was one of those areas. Indeed, without seeking to put one committee's future in any measure of jeopardy, it was on this particular committee that I was invited by the Prime Minister to serve. 
It is going to take some months for the views of that committee to be made available. It is going to take, I suggest, about another 12 months before that Constitution Convention meets again in plenary session. I would suggest that not only would it have been wise in terms of constitutional reform but also wise in terms of political procedure to have awaited the outcome of that committee's report, and shall tell the House why. In particular, I would seek to tell my friend the Minister for Services and Property why it would have been politically wise to await that committee's report. The States have long considered that the Palladium of their rights and liberties as States is to be found in section 128 of the Constitution. 
It is very difficult to find any State member of Parliament, no matter what his political allegiance or affinity may be, who will not nurse some measure of resentment against the central Government. My friend knows this to be true. Many of them take the view we are seeking to trench upon their rights. State rights is the battle cry which I know we find on occasions irritating and a little difficult to understand, but the attitude of mind is there. The need to create a feeling for this country as one nation is one I hold to very strongly indeed. But the simple fact remains that the difficulties about constitutional reform are substantial and one can achieve them only step by step, by a process of enlightenment and, I suggest, by a process of encouragement to ensure that those who serve in State parliaments are not consumed or overwhelmed with any sense of fear, that they are convinced as to the merits of the proposal that is put before them. 
I may find myself in the position of having considerable sympathy with the proposals put forward. Indeed I have unfeigned support for the proposal regarding the territories and I do not disguise that for one moment. However, it is the third proposal that concerns me, and I suggest that what the Government has done now is to imperil the prospect of constitutional reform by seeking to thrust this proposal onto the States in particular and the people in general. Let me put this proposition to the House: If at the time of Federation in the 1890s the proposal had been that a simple majority of electors voting at a referendum would be adequate means of altering the Constitution, the Federation would never have come into existence. One has only to go back to the 1891 Convention debate to realise that that was precisely the position. I just want to read one or two brief extracts from that debate to indicate the position of those who attended the 1891 Convention. 
At that time there were no States in existence; they were colonies and they became States when they entered the Federation. The attitude of the colonies was quite clear. It was made clear by, for example,  Mr Playford,  a name well known in Australian politics, and I have no doubt an ancestor of the gentleman who has been so well known to many of us in this House. 
I am indebted to my friend for that observation. Speaking at the convention on 8 April 1891, in Sydney,  Mr Playford  said: 
No one in his senses will argue that it is fair that the minority of the commonwealth shall be able to make an alteration of the constitution of the commonwealth. If that is not fair, the people are quite willing to say, 'If we cannot carry a majority, first of the people, and secondly of the states, no alteration of the constitution shall be made.' I say that this is fair on the one hand to the states, and on the other hand to the people. The states have no more right to say that, simply because they have a majority, though not of the people, they will override the people, than the people, on the other hand, have a right to say, Because we have a majority of the people we will override the states.' Let us deal fairly in both cases. That is all I want. I do not care how it is brought about, so long as it is thoroughly understood that the people, on the one hand, shall not override the states, and that the states, on the other hand, shall not be able to override the people. 
Of course time and events undoubtedly have swept by. The sentiment which reposes in those observations may be considered by many of us today at least to be tinged with a measure of anachronism. But the fact remains - this is the historic base from which we must consider this question - that Federation would never have been brought into being if there had been a simple deal to have 3 States or to have a majority simpliciter of electors voting. The question I ask the Government is: Why have a requirement for 3 States only? In his second reading speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
The emphasis, in this day and age, should be on flexibility and on what a majority of the electors want, wherever they live, while retaining a proper position for the States. 
If one accepts that sentiment and subscribes to that argument I suggest that the logical extension of it is to have a majority simpliciter. What does the honourable gentleman mean by a recognition of what he describes as 'a proper position for the States'? What is a proper position for the States? Those who founded the Federation said that there shall be four States in favour. The Prime Minister today states that there shall be 3 States in favour of any proposal. What is so splendidly virtuous about 3 being in agreement? I would suggest that in terms of sheer logic one could build a powerful and quite respectable case for carrying a proposition on a majority of electors alone. This, of course, is where the dilemma is with the States. There is no point in us putting our hands to the plough to do something which will not produce anything. If we are to plough in barren ground we will find ourselves in difficulties. That is what I suggest the Government is doing. 
The great Burke reminds us that that which is not practical is spurious. I suggest to my friends opposite that this proposal is not practical politics today. Could one, for example, encourage those who sit in State parliaments - again I do not put them on one side or the other in terms of political sentiment - to say that they would have no ground for fear regarding this proposal. I shall give a couple of illustrations of the sort of fear which will be held by those who sit in State Parliaments. I take the assumption that the proposed referendum is carried. It would then mean that 3 States and the majority of people could alter the Constitution. Section 7 of the Constitution which provides, among other things, the number of senators from each State, goes on to observe: 
. but so that equal representation of the several original States shall be maintained and that no original State shall have less than 6 senators. 
I must confess, speaking for myself, that I find, in terms of sheer arithmetic, it curious that Tasmania has 10 senators and New South Wales has 10 senators. But if one puts arithmetic to one side and comes back to the Constitution, of course that was the deal. The Senate was seen as a States House, a proposition which I suggest most of us today would have some difficulty in embracing. I think that it is, by and large, a Party's House. Today occasionally one sees a flash of independence and a return to the role originally cast upon the Senate, but that is the exception; it certainly is not the rule. Imagine the sense of suspicion that would be generated in State parliaments with respect to section 7 of the Constitution. 'Carried' could well mean that 3 States - say, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia - could disadvantage Tasmania, Western Australia and indeed Queensland. 
To illustrate the sentiment that is still abroad, at the Sydney convention on the Constitution  Sir Charles  Court, the Leader of the Opposition in Western Australia, said to me: Killen, you have some views on the Constitution which I do not share'. This is the effect of what that gentleman said. He said: 'But you must understand our position'.  Sir Charles  went on to describe an incident that had happened this year in Kalgoorlie regarding the gold subsidy. He said that the miners walked down the street and when they got to the Post Office the cry of 'Secession, secession' rent the air. This situation has something of the Terry Thomas or Ealing film studio about it to most of us, but not to the Western Australians. One can understand their sense of indignation at and their sense of distrust of this proposal. I invite my friends to look at section 24 of the Constitution, which provides: 
But notwithstanding anything in this section, 5 members at least will be chosen in each original State. 
What if a government - I do not say this of my friends opposite - at some time in the future said: 'How absurd it is to have 5 members from Tasmania' again being persuaded on an arithmetical basis. That is where the fear comes in. I feel that the tragedy in this situation from the point of view of getting constitutional reform is that the Government has been impatient. I am sure that if the Government had waited at least until the report of the sub-committee had been brought down it would have been better. Admittedly, the committee is large, with 17 members. For many of us 17 could be a well attended public meeting, but the committee may produce something; it may not. However I think we show the members of the committee a measure of discourtesy by proceeding in this fashion. More importantly, more critically, I think the committee may have been encouraged to have seen that there could well have been some virtue in taking an overall majority and a majority of 3 States. 
I do not wish to embarrass my distinguished and gallant friend from Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  but he was saying to me before this debate started that at the time of Federation it was in the minds of those who attended the convention that new States would be created. The position can be made dramatically clear by taking the assumption that one more State had been created. That would have meant that 4 of the 7 States would have been sufficient to carry a proposal - four-sevenths. At the moment, as the Prime Minister observed, a two-thirds majority is needed. Is there any person seriously possessed of the idea that new States can be brought into existence? Such a scheme failed in New South Wales and even though it lingers in northern Queensland the practical prospects of having new States brought into existence seem to me to be utterly remote. 
I have sought, in the matter of 18 or 19 minutes, to put my views. Every honourable member on this side of the House subscribes to the second proposal in the Bill. The first proposal has simply been swept by by time. It is quite otiose. It is the third proposal that worries us. It seeks to alter the Constitution with the consent of the majority of the people and merely 3 of the 6 States. That is not good enough. At this time I suggest that the Government, putting it in simple homely language, has put its foot in things. I think it has shown a measure of impatience which if it had held in abeyance it could well have convinced our colleagues who sit in State parliaments that we were not seeking to trench upon their position in some dramatic fashion. There is a cultivated resistance in Australia to constitutional reform. In many respects I think it is a thousand pities, but it is there and it must be recognised. The impatience of the political practitioner of today could well be the trap into which he will fall. I think it is a pity, but that is the position. The Government has now put its hand to the plough. What it will produce time and time alone will show. 
I second the motion and I make but a few brief observations. I think this motion is a tribute to the industry and compassion of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Whether one always agrees with the end result, his industry is a matter of constant astonishment to all of us who sit in this House.  His  compassion is very deep, very genuine and very widespread. This is another manifestation of it. I understand that my friend, .the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  wishes to announce to the House some further action that he has taken. The Minister has already acted, if I may say with respect, with great promptness, and that is acknowledged by all honourable members on this side of the House. 
The only other thing I should like to say is to commend the practical suggestion made by the honourable member for Mackellar. He suggested the installation of wireless survival bleep apparatus in all boats. This is done with respect to light aircraft and, as the honourable gentleman has pointed out, the cost is not daunting in any sense at all. The editorial in the Melbourne 'Age' of 20 October this year commented on the need for wireless bleepers to be fitted into ships. In its observations it drew attention to the fact that in August 4 years ago it had, in a feature article, suggested the standard issue of radio rescue beacons on all ships. I suppose the fact that nothing was done is a further illustration of the fact that the mills of God do indeed grind slowly. I am sure the Minister will be responsive to the suggestion made by the honourable member for Mackellar. I hope that he will introduce a measure of swiftness to ensure that something is done. 
I am very concerned about the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  What he has said this morning is confirmation of a fear that I have held for some time. The honourable gentleman and I have contrived over a long time now - more than 18 years - despite some occasional political differences to form and to maintain a very close, and very warm friendship. Indeed, some years ago the Minister was so moved by the quality of the friendship as to write a poem about me. It was a poem that touched me very deeply. In recent times the Minister seems to be wilting under the strain. I know that the strain of office is a very heavy one and that people react differently to it. This morning the Minister spoke about his constant attention to his work. He even spoke about being troubled by one of his staff coming into his office and interrupting him in his reading and his writing. That is not the usual behaviour pattern of the Minister. 
As an illustration of the Minister's deterioration and the basis of my concern, may I remind the House of some of the recent observations made by the Minister. He depicted himself, just a short while ago, as being one of the great statesmen of this day. You will be aware,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that fantasy manifests itself in a great variety of forms. It can take the form of acute Walter Mittyism - the individual who lives in a world of sheer fantasy. That, of course, can plunge on further to what is described as Bonapartism. Instead of dealing with the very serious matter raised this morning by the honourable member for 
Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the Minister went into a world of fantasy. I will come back to that. 
I am trying to help the Minister diagnose what is really wrong and find out what we can possibly do - all of us - to help him to stand up to the great strain of office. Such is the measure of our affection that we would not like to see the honourable gentleman wilt under the strain.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will have noticed - it was, I regret to say, again shown here this morning - that the Minister has such a desperately well cultivated regard for himself. That had never been the case with the honourable gentleman in the past. He has always had such a massive urbanity - almost a disregard - of his own importance and his own contribution to the national Parliament. Why has he suddenly become, as it were, the prisoner of his own elevated assessments? This does concern me. I speak now as one of close friendship and of intimate standing with him. The honourable gentleman - referring to the matter raised by my friend the honourable member for Mackellar - has not dealt with the subject of the debate. That is unusual and quite unlike the honourable gentleman. Of all the relevant minds I have ever encountered in the past, it has always been the mind of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who is now a Minister of State in  Her  Majesty's Australian Government, the Minister for Labour, which has most impressed me. Why has this great relevance of mind suddenly deserted him? Alas, the honourable gentleman was not able to grapple with the problem before him this morning. I say to the honourable gentleman that he should try and relax. If he can relax occasionally he will find that the tensions will not be so great and the aggravation of hypertension will probably slough away. I think he needs a rest, but I will come back to that later. 
The honourable member for Mackellar, with characteristic academic detachment, said on 16 October that labour's share of gross domestic product has increased since .1948 and 1949. The honourable member for Mackellar expressed himself in such robust language on that occasion that it was found that he had to leave the services of the House for a day - a matter that distressed him no end and, speaking for myself, upset me somewhat. What happened the next day? The Minister came into the House - here,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is a further illustration of the deteri oration which has taken place with my honourable friend - and used language which was quite unlike him. He does not normally use any sharp, harsh, pejorative language. He is the gentlest of souls. But what did he say of the honourable member for Mackellar? Referring to an advertisement the honourable member for Mackellar had had published in a newspaper, the Minister said that it was a despicable twisting of statistics. I had never in all of my life heard the honourable gentleman use language like that. I wonder why he did so on that occasion? He went on then to speak of an officer of his Department,  Mr Tilling.  This is the language that my honourable friend the Minister used: 
In 21 of 24 regression equations  Mr Tilling  found that the share of national product going to labour had declined in the 20 years from 1948-49 to 1969-70. 
The honourable gentleman always has been a realist. I wonder why a measure of unrealism now seems to be capturing him. He would not for one moment deny that that was the language he used. It is in Hansard. The honourable gentleman always has been an immaculately truthful person and he would not depart from that stand willingly, consciously or with any measure of intent. That is a further expression of my concern. If  Mr Tilling  had said that, I imagine it would have been able to be confirmed by reference to  Mr Tilling's  paper. But  Mr Tilling's  paper, with very great respect to my dear friend, does not support the Minister. This is what  Mr Tilling  had to say in his paper: 
Recently many trade union leaders have expressed the view- 
I punctuate this to observe that the Minister for Labour has occupied significant trade union leadership positions in the past; we all freely acknowledge that, and we join with the honourable gentleman in at least equating our assessment of his own opinion in that field -  that labour's share has fallen over the past quarter of a century. They have claimed that despite the increasing organisation and development of the trade union movement and despite the increasing proportion of wage and salary earners in the labour force workers have been receiving a diminishing- proportion of the national cake. This attitude may have had a not insignificant effect on the level of the industrial disputation in recent years. It is hoped that the evidence submitted in this study will enable a better appreciation of the facts on this question. 
That was said by  Mr Tilling.  It does not merely puzzle me, it worries me desperately - because my honourable friend the Minister for Labour has always had great command of the language and a love for it. He has always observed, with great scruple, anything any other person has written. Why the change? Why the alteration in the pattern of behaviour? The honourable gentleman must realise that  Mr Tilling's  paper does not support in any shape or form what my friend has had to say. The last thing I would like to draw to the attention of the House, and of the Minister for Labour, is what his dear colleague the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had to say on 10 October this year and to the remarks made by the honourable gentleman again .this morning. On 10 October this year the Prime Minister said: 
. it is clear from looking at the statistics for the last 20 years or so that the amount of the gross domestic product represented by wages and salaries has gone down. . . . 
The honourable gentleman has offered no evidence to support that contention. The honourable member for Mackellar went to  the  statistical service of the Parliamentary Library and was given a table which showed quite conclusively that in the last 20 years the contrary is the case. To take the year 1972-73, the proportion of the gross domestic product at factor cost was 61.5 per cent; for the year 1953-54, it was 56 per cent. Since when has delusion ever had anything to do with the Minister for Labour? Why the incapacity to be able to deal with the facts in his customary scrupulous fashion? What has happened? I think that this is a further indication of the tremendous strain that the Minister is under. I would hesitate to seek to describe in any clinical fashion what is wrong because I am not capable or equipped to do so, but I do suggest to the honourable gentleman that at the earliest opportunity he should seek a break from the great cares and strains of office and reflect upon what has been said here this morning by the honourable member for Mackellar. I am sure that if the Minister for Labour could return to his old form, he would say to the honourable member for Mackellar: I am sorry for the mistakes I have made. It distresses me no end, but now that I am hale and hearty again I am ready to take up the reins of office.' 
I address a question to the Prime Minister and I refer to the honourable gentleman's observations yesterday concerning China. Does he agree with me that it is the essence of futility to imagine that you can temper or moderate the attitude of a man by pretending that he does not exist and, a fortiori, that the attitude and politics of a country can ever be moderated by pretending that it does not exist? Does the honourable gentleman accept that as a sound principle in the conduct of international affairs? If he does, will he ensure that his Government gives every encouragement to the councils of the world to accept that principle? 
The Opposition supports this Bill and does so instantly and generously. This Bill is long overdue and the prospect of seeing a consolidation of the statutes is one which I personally welcome very much indeed. I suppose that one of the most significant problems which any practitioner faces is to find out where the law is. Today the Commonwealth statutes are, putting it politely, in something of a mess and the officers who will undertake this work undertake what has been properly described as a massive job. I personally wish them well. As a simple illustration of the difficulty of knowing where the law is, I briefly tell the House the story - a true one - of a citizen of the United States who was charged with a breach of a regulation and convicted of that breach. He took the matter on appeal and he ultimately finished up before the American Supreme Court where it was discovered that the regulation which he had allegedly breached had been repealed before the conviction. This is the absurdity that we face. I am sure that legal practitioners throughout the whole of the Commonwealth will welcome the consolidation of the Commonwealth statutes, and I would like to congratulate the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for his enterprise in having ventured upon this task. 
The Opposition supports this Bill. Its purpose is a simple one. It is to make provision for another judge or other judges to operate within the Northern Territory. Plainly, the volume of work in the courts in the Northern Territory has increased enormously as the population has increased. As a consequence of the increased population, there has been an increase in the volume of litigation. The singular purpose of this Bill is to enable the courts to proceed, with a greater measure of dispatch and celerity, to deal with litigation. Plainly, justice delayed is justice denied. If 2 individuals are litigating against each other and they want to have the issue resolved, their rights are being impugned to the extent that their issue has not been decided. If a man who has been injured is seeking his remedy by way of damages to compensate him in a simple motor car case, it is a poor consolation to him to know that eventually the courts will get round to deciding the matter. Again, with criminal work, those who practise in the courts realise the sense of distress that is given to judges when they are put in a position of not being able to deal, again with immediate dispatch, with those who are put on trial. The Opposition welcomes this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Opposition suports this measure, which at first blush appears to be a very simple one; but it is one of the most significant pieces of legislation introduced into this Parliament. It is not, as it stands at the moment, open to controversy. It is what the Bill will produce that will be the flash point of argument and controversy. The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  as Minister representing the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  in his second reading speech referred to the desideratum of having uniformity of law throughout Australia. One may agree with that, but what one must acknowledge is the fact that very significant restraints and limitations are put upon this Parliament in seeking to secure that uniformity. 
My honourable friend, the Minister, in his speech referred, for example, to reform of the laws, relating to commercial transactions, defamation, evidence and crime. The power of this Parliament to legislate with respect to the criminal law is restricted to the 2 Territories. Whilst this Parliament may persuasively seek to bring about reforms between and among the States in this one field of law, it is not open to this Parliament to lead compulsively the States to reach that conclusion. Similarly, there are differences between and among the States in the laws on defamation. For example, in the code States - Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania - the mere fact that truth is pleaded is not enough; truth must be accompanied by public benefit. My understanding is that in the common law States truth is sufficient and there is not any need for the companion of public benefit. I suppose it is a matter of one's sense of prejudice or one's sense of legal environment whether one favours one system or the other. 
I wish those who take part in the work of this Commission well. They face a momentous task, one of the most significant tasks ever given to any commission in this country. Whether the Commission will be able to bring about relief in those areas where relief is desperately needed is a matter of speculation, but the members to be appointed to the Commission will have the good wishes, I would suspect, of the great majority of members of the legal profession throughout Australia. Again I say to the Minister that, whilst the end in view is desirable, whether we will be able to reach it as swiftly as he suspects is another question. 
I say briefly but bluntly that I think this is a disgraceful proceeding. I am not particularly interested in any arrangement which may or may not have been made behind the Chair. I believe in the authority of this Parliament. I have asserted it against those on my side when they commanded the numbers, and I did not find myself on the honours list as any consequence of the protest that I made. I want to say to my friend, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  the Minister in charge of this legislation, that this is a shabby way in which to treat the national Parliament. It is to no avail the Leader of the House saying that these 4 Bills were debated for 14 hours or 16 hours before. I invite the Leader of the House to reflect upon the fact that on that occasion the Bills were gagged and a number of them were considered together. How on earth will he secure a sensible, rational approach to constitutional reform in this country when he has such an asinine approach to it? I happen to know that the Minister agrees with me on this point. I do not embarrass my honourable friend by taking the point any further. 
I say to the honourable gentleman, however, that when I discussed my concern with him about some measures regarding this legislation, he rushed into the Labor Party Caucus room and made a passionate appeal for Party honesty. Fortunately for the honourable gentleman cooler counsel prevailed and today we are confronted with this disgraceful procedure. I suppose I am one of the few in this place who has had an opportunity to look at the Constitution Alteration (Inter-change of Powers) Bill which is the fifth Bill proposed to be introduced by the Prime Minister. I saw it at a Constitutional Convention subcommittee meeting. I am sure that the honourable gentleman would agree with me when I say it is a Bill of extraordinary complexity. My regret is that the Labor Government has set back genuine constitutional reform in this country 25 years by the hamfisted approach that it is adopting to the problem. A Constitutional Convention is in progress at this very moment and there are prospects of agreement by every major political party in a number of areas. What person with a good conscience could entertain an approach of this character when he sees that 4 Bills to alter the Constitution are to be debated cognately? I think it is a travesty and I think that the House, and I hope the country will understand that that is my deep conviction. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this is an expression by a Government which plainly is in a very desperate state of mind. In the 19 years in which I have 'been a member of this Parliament I have always had very considerable sympathy with the concept that there should be alterations to the Australian Constitution. But I believe that those alterations should have been proceeded with quietly and reasonably with people seeking to inform their minds by rational argument and to encourage others to realise that there are problems in the Australian Constitution by resorting to the rational argument and nothing else. I am one who takes the view that in all manner of things reason is the ultimate controller, and if reason is rejected then sooner or later people will find themselves in distress; and tonight the national Parliament of Australia finds itself in distress. 
No explanation is given by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  as to why this legislation should be regarded as urgent legislation. To fall back on such banalities is to say: 'Well, we have debated all this before; therefore, we should not consider it on this occasion'. This serves no purpose. It does not emancipate the Parliament in the eyes of the people. 
If I have said it before I will say it again until sooner or later even such a thoroughgoing intellect as the Minister might understand it. This is a disgraceful procedure, and the prospects of the national Parliament ever coming to grips with the problem of constitutional reform is put off. We are now faced with the prospect of the time-table of the Minister for Services and Property. I do not know what it will be. But what he is aiming to do is put through these 5 Bills, one may surmise, in some 'gravely short period of time. The Opposition will get itself into the mood where it will simply say: 'What is the point in coming to Parliament if you cannot discuss issues?' No opportunity was given to us when we last discussed these Bills to consider them in any leisurely fashion, and we are not to be afforded the opportunity on this occasion. There are some defects in the legislation. I venture to suggest that even the Minister for Services and Property - that wide-ranging Latin scholar - may be persuaded to realise that there are some imperfections in the legislation. It distresses me, it vexes me and it disturbs me to find that here, once again, the national forum almost on its first day back is now put in the position where the guillotine comes down. 
It is a term that I hesitate to embrace, but I adopt it now because I think it so appropriately describes what the honourable gentleman is prepared to resort to. 
The , Minister for Sport or Tourism or whatever it is is the most desperately unoccupied Minister on the whole of the front bench. Lord only knows what he will do. The only thing he will do is die of inanition. I want to come back to the moves made by the Minister for Services and Property. No explanation has been given. The Minister holds himself out as a great democrat. Democracy is a word that should have some difficulty in tumbling from the honourable gentleman's lips. I say this to the honourable gentleman and to all those who sit behind him: You may have the numbers on this occasion and no doubt you may win on this occasion, but there will come a time when the people of this country will treat you in the fashion in which you deserve to be treated. Democracy is not something that people should incline themselves to when the occasion demands, and neither is it something to be treated as a toy of those who command power. The vindicating forces in this country will yet come to the rescue of Australia, and I hope that the Minister for Services and Property will be one of the chief victims. I assure the honourable gentleman that I will do everything I can to ensure that he goes into the tumble and faces the proper guillotine that is his fate. 
Because of the exigencies of time I must try to restrict myself to some terms of courtesy, but I find it very difficult to do so in the circumstances. At the root of this proposal lies the bona fides of the Government. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who isin charge of the Bill, knows perfectly well the position of his Party. He knows perfectly well the position of the Senate in relation to the Parliament. The Senate is not merely an arm of this House. It owes its existence to clearly stated constitutional provisions. Under this proposal the term of service of a senator shall end upon the expiry of the House of Representatives. 
Let me put it another way: If by dint of narrow numbers in this chamber the Prime Minister of the day should have occasion to go to the Governor-General and say T find the burden of governing with a narrow majority difficult' - for example,  Mr Wilson  in the present British circumstance - it would mean that the Senate automatically would have to be pulled out. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  knows that very well. I have no doubt that the Minister reads the Electoral Act with loving care, but I have the gravest doubts as to whether he has read the Constitution. The provisions in the Constitution relating to a double dissolution are clear, and those provisions were inserted for the express purpose of avoiding the dilemma into which the present Government is seeking to thrust the entire country. I would like to know from the Minister - he is not known as the Trappist of the Australian Parliament - precisely what question the Government proposes to put in the referendum to the Australian people. 
This is a newfound form of indulgence on the Minister's part, if he wants to giveus time to speak. I would also like to know from the Minister what explanation he will seek to give to the Australian electorate regarding the significance of the whole of clause 4 of this Bill. Clause 4 of this Bill would be as long a clause as has ever appeared in any Bill passing through this Parliament. 
Precisely. I am indebted to the honourable member for Mackellar for reminding me that it is almost as long as section 51 of the Constitution, which is the main fountain-head of power of this Parliament. The Minister expects the Committee in a matter of 4 or 5 minutes - I know that my friend the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  wants to say something about this, too - to consider all the ramifications of this provision. It is not fair to the Parliament. The Minister knows it is not fair but, regrettably, he is not prepared to say so. I invite him, before he disposes of this Bill, to tell us in precise terms what will be the form of question put to the Australian people and what explanation he proposes to offer for the extraordinarily long clause which will become a section in the Act that is, making an assumption that it passes through another place; an assumption which is more easily stated than, I believe, carried out. Still, we live for another day. I hope that the honourable member for Petrie may be able to add his words to this debate. 
I am delighted to be able to bring some tranquility back into our proceedings. The vote which has just been taken is relevant to this debate because it shows that numbers remain of some importance. At first sight no person would object to this Bill for a referendum. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the question to be put to the people at the referendum - he is making the assumption that the referendum will get to the people, which in view of recent experience is a rather extravagant assumption to make - will be in the form of the long title. As I say, at first glance the question appears to be unexceptionable. It asks: Are you in favour of the democratic election of Parliament? Of course we are all in favour of the democratic election of Parliament. But one cannot be content with merely examining the short title of the Bill. It is prudent - and particularly prudent when the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has anything to do with it - to look at the fine print. When one looks at the fine print one finds that it is not in accord with the short title of the Bill. 
The first observation to be made about this Bill is that it seeks to reach out into the State legislatures in a way that was never within the contemplation of the founders of this Federation, and to direct their affairs. I say to the House and to the Prime Minister that I would not seek to attack the electoral arrangements made in any State in Australia. In general terms I have no fierce respect for them. I am particularly concerned with the arrangements as far as the Commonwealth of Australia is concerned. On that note of ecstasy I sit down, forced by time to do so. 
I intrude for a brief moment or two to ask my friend, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he next visits Western Australia to take a very early opportunity to convey to his colleague, the Premier of Western Australia, the precise terms and implications to be found in this Bill and to assure his distinguished colleague - again on the assumption that the Bill is carried - that at the earliest opportunity this Parliament will legislate to ensure that seats in the Kimberleys in the far north-west of Western Australia are brought into community of interest with such places as Albany and that he will hasten, with all possible celerity, to bring about that state of affairs. I also ask my friend when in Queensland to take a similar opportunity to explain to the Queensland people that it is plainly the intention of  Her  Majesty's Government, led by him, to ensure that appropriate reforms are introduced under the auspices of this Parliament, because I am quite satisfied that the people of Australia regrettably do not understand all the implications of this Bill and that the Prime Minister, having such a splendid affection for candour, will display it with all possible will and with his customary frankness. 
I am immensely relieved to find that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is not to be consigned to Colombia. This Bill is a far reaching one, to say the least. I raise some criticism of it, I assure the House and in particular the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in no captious sense because I believe there are some fundamental mistakes that have been made. I would like in a matter of a few moments to put my arguments to the House. This Bill seeks to confer upon the Australian Parliament power to borrow on behalf of the Commonwealth for local government bodies. I want to put to the Prime Minister that there is nothing at the moment which can preclude that being done provided, of course, that one says to the States that we want you to act as the honest broker. I have always taken the view, unlike some of my friends opposite, that local government authorities are essentially the creation of the States. The States can make or break them at will. What greater sense of power does the Prime Minister require than the power to be able to snuff out of existence a local government authority as was done in the case of the Sydney City Council, and then to bring it back to life as was done in the case of the Sydney City Council. For this Parliament to say: 'Well, we want to intrude directly into this area', seems to me to be a most unsatisfying approach. But I put that to one side. 
What I want to put to the Prime Minister is this: The borrowing power of the Commonwealth is entrenched in section 105  a  of the 
Constitution. Here the proposal is to put the words 'the borrowing of money by the Commonwealth for local government bodies' not in relation to section 105a of the Constitution but rather with respect to section 51 of the Constitution, which is in genera] terms the plenary or the fountainhead of most of the powers of this Parliament. Section 51 of the Constitution commences with the words: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution . . . 
So the effect of that is that every law which is made must observe, for example, section 92 of the Constitution. The other provisions outside cannot be infringed. But this is not so with section 105a. This is not to be read subject to the Constitution; this power stands on its own - completely on its own. 
What is to be the effect if, for example, pursuant to this power the Commonwealth borrows money on behalf of a local government and lends it on such terms and conditions as it may think fit, and it does in fact breach, say, section 92 of the Constitution? You would then find yourself trammelled to that extent. I would like to know as a matter of drafting - and I have the utmost admiration and respect for the professional officers in the Attorney-General's Department who serve the Government and who served previous governments - why pick on section 51 for the purpose of putting in this provision? Why not put it in with respect to section 105a? 
The second criticism that I would like to make is: Why the necessity to put the second provision which relates to the grants provision set out in section 96a. If the Parliament has power to give assistance to the States would not the term 'local government' fall within the general ambit of the States? They are the criticisms which I have to make. I regret that the second reading debate will be concluded in three or four minutes time, but this is not a design of my making. I would be interested to hear from the honourable gentleman on those points. 
This Bill dramatically illustrates the principal contention of the Opposition during the course of the debate on all the Constitution Alteration Bills, namely, that insufficient time has been given to the consideration of all the implications of the Bills. One is not to be distinguished readily from the other but this one dramatically shows that that is the case. There is a considerable amount of sympathy throughout the Australian community for the basic proposal of this Bill. I do not think anyone argues, at least in any vigorous terms, about the first 2 proposals. It is the third proposal that arrests attention. At the moment an alteration to the Australian Constitution cannot be made unless 2 requirements are met. Firstly a majority of all the electors voting and secondly a majority of all the States voting must be in favour of the alteration. This proposal seeks to lay the way for a provision that if a majority of electors and three of the 6 States vote in favour that is sufficient to carry a referendum. In general terms there is a considerable amount of sympathy for that proposal and it is by no means confined to one side of politics but a genuine concern is held by many people as to how far this proposal could go. For example, could it reach out to amend the amending section 128 of the Constitution? 
I suppose it would be a matter of notoriety that there are members from some States who look upon the fact that there are 10 senators from Tasmania and 10 senators from New South. Wales as a curious arrangement. I will not argue about that. If section 128 were to be altered in some radical fashion it could well mean that the whole balance of the Federal structure  -  I use that expression not in any narrow sense - could be grievously disturbed. No consideration has been given to this aspect of the Bill. I regret that it is a conspicuous blemish on the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who with his customary goodwill seeks to encourage and inform us all, that he has not sought to explain this to us. I would hope that the honourable gentleman could be persuaded to do so - mind you, not that he becomes an easy victim to persuasion. At least that has been my experience with him but I would like to hear from the honourable gentleman. If this Bill were carried section 128 of the Constitution could well be disturbed. My authority for that is not my own opinion on the matter. I am indebted to the views contained in an opinion by Professor Jack Richardson, whom the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would know. I say with respect that I do not think this country is using his talents in the field of constitutional law as perhaps it could. In an opinion Professor Richardson said this: 
I do not think there is any doubt but that the High Court would hold section 128 to be capable of amendment according to its own procedures. 
In that opinion Professor Richardson referred to an opinion given by the late  Mr Justice  Nicholas of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. It will be recalled that he presided over the famous Nicholas Royal Commission into the Constitution.  Mr Nicholas,  as he then was, stated: 
As to the final paragraph- 
The final paragraph I am referring to here now, because of time, is in section 128 -  in view of the language of the early part of the section it can hardly be questioned that that paragraph may itself be altered or eliminated so that what would be necessary to deprive a State of the rights there mentioned, would be to hold one referendum in order to alter the paragraph, and after a proper interval, a second referendum in order to alter the relevant section of the Constitution. 
I say this to the Prime Minister, not in any partisan sense at all: I have found among our State colleagues on both sides of politics a very real concern as to the ramifications of this proposal. I would have preferred, if we could have had the little luxury of time, to have suggested a proposal by way of amendment that section 128 should not be tampered with as readily as it appears it could be tampered with. 

 Mr Speaker, I conclude by saying that this is one of the great regrets of the manner and form in which we have debated these great issues. I believe that there is ground for reform of our Constitution, but the manner in which we have gone about it- 
This' section in particular. I would have hoped that we - I use that word in its corporate sense - could have been a little more patient about it. I think we would have made a little more progress. 
With respect, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not quite understand one of the views I offered about amending section 128 of the Constitution. It is perfectly true, as the honourable gentleman has observed at some time past, that at present there is an entrenched provision to prevent disturbing the balance between and among the States in the way to which I have referred, but the opinion offered by the late  Mr Justice  Nicholas was to the effect that by 2 amendments to that section this could be accomplished. The first would be to disturb the fifth and final paragraph of section 128 and then, as he so elegantly put it, after a decent time to return with another amendment. That was my proposal. It was not put in any flippant way - not that I, for one moment, imply that the honourable gentleman thought it was put flippantly. However, I have heard expressed among our State colleagues a very genuine concern that that procedure could be followed. I fear that it is a little too late for it to be done. I suppose it will roll on inexorably to our masters, the people, and we will await the outcome to see what they have to say about it. However, this will be one argument which undoubtedly will be canvassed in the course of the discussion on the referendum proposal. 
This is a Bill for an Act to alter the Australian Con.sitution, and the second reading speech on it was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a little more than 24 hours ago. I mention that not by way of dull complaint but merely to put on the record the approach of the Government to constitutional review. For the national Parliament to be called upon to consider a Bill for an Act to alter the Australian Constitution within 24 hours of its introduction, I strongly suggest, would have amazed those who drew up the Australian Constitution. Those who yet maintain sovereignty over us - that is to say, the electors of the country - must be baffled by the procedure. It is not as though it is an everyday occurrence. This Bill is one of 40 or 50 Bills relating to referenda which have been introduced during the whole course of Federation, the Australian nation having been founded by dint of an Act of the Imperial Parliament in 1900. Here is this Bill to alter the Australian Constitution and we are given 24 hours notice. That is the first point 1 want to make to the House and, I hope, to the country. It shows a curious, almost a mischievous, almost a reckless approach to the whole problem of constitutional reform. I make the charge against the Government that introducing a Bill for an Act for a referendum and giving the Opposition 24 hours notice must be described in appropriate terms. The only appropriate terms that seem available to me are that it is a thorough-going disgrace. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is sitting on this side of the House and trying to stir up goodwill - a role for which he is peculiarly ill-fitted. The only thing he has been able to chalk up is a remarkable record of ineptitude as Minister for Labour. I will be able to come to him, I hope, in the course of the next month or two, and when I do he will know that the brand has been put on him. 
I am sorry but I cannot agree with any measure of exuberance with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his views on the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Indeed, I think that the honourable member for Mackellar has done a service not merely to this side of the House but to the entire Parliament in sounding a warning as to the possible consequences 
Well, the honourable member would be an impeccable judge of that, would he not? The honourable member for Mackellar sounded a warning as to the possible consequences of what appears to be an irregularity. I am conscious,  Mr Speaker,  of the injunctions you have served today on members regarding Latin quotations. The Prime Minister has indulged himself in one and I may possibly indulge myself in one. Omnia prae sumuntur rite esse acta - it is presumed that everything is done regularly. But has everything been done regularly here today? It is one thing for the House to identify the malfunction regarding the electric wires and what have you. It is another thing, though, to seek to set aside retrospectively a standing order which says quite explicity that in the same session of the Parliament a Bill for a referendum which has 'been rejected cannot be brought back again. That is what we are doing and if there is any challenge to it it will be of no avail for any person after the event to say: Well, the Prime Minister said everything had been done and the matter was passed'. The courts would be entitled to look to see if it had been done in the proper and regular fashion. Far be it from the Honourable the Prime Minister to seek to belittle the honourable member for Mackellar. He sought not to indicate that he was voting against the suspension. All he has done as I understand his views is to say: 'Well, possibly there may be some doubt as to whether or not this Bill has been properly passed'. I think the House of Representatives and the Parliament are entitled to acknowledge his enterprise in drawing our attention to it. 

<graphic href="088131197403060_58_15_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="088131197403060_58_15_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative, by an absolute majority. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the vote taken earlier this day on the third reading of the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 be rescinded and that the question 'That the Bill be now read a third time' be again put to the House forthwith. 
My question to the Prime Minister concerns the establishment of a national disaster fund. The honourable gentleman will be aware that the recent flooding in Queensland and northern New South Wales has revived again the idea of establishing such a fund. To enable honourable members to consider the practicalities of such a fund, will the honourable gentleman undertake to table in this House all of the information on the matter that has been collected so painstakingly over the years? 
This place is largely run by conventions- 
Yes, I am seconding the motion. The conventions of this Parliament which are not defined and which are not written nevertheless remain clearly understood'. If those conventions are to be infringed and disregarded the whole of the running of this Parliament comes to a stop. No person who has sat in a Parliament for any length of time will argue against that proposition. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has put forward a motion which seeks to have made available to broadcasting stations a copy of a tape recording taken by those officers duly appointed in this place to record such matters, of the interchange betwen the 'Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  earlier this afternoon. If I may say, with respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would be quite in order in contending that if any person were to suggest that the officers of this Parliament would falsify Hansard that would be a gratuitous insult. It is not in that area where the anxiety immediately lies. No such insult is offered, certainly by me. 
The urgency which rests upon us in this matter is that the people of Australia be given an opportunity to make an assessment of the issue now - not tomorrow and not in a week's time but now when the whole concatenation of events falls down upon us. That is the question involved. It is the urgency of the motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar that should attract the attention of this House. Of course, if any honourable member asks to make a statement and he transgresses the courtesy given to him by the House, he will not lightly be given that courtesy again. Let us be clear. It is through a corporate sense of courtesy in this House that governments control and regulate the making of statements. If an honourable member asks for leave to make a statement, he is granted leave and then that leave is trammelled in some extraordinary sense, the whole debate is gagged. 
This is the question that the House of Representatives - I thought until this afternoon that it was a tolerably mature deliberative assembly, but I think we have lost command of those elements that should discipline us - has to consider. It is to that issue that I would ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to turn his fecund mind. It does not do the honourable gentleman any good to walk across to this side of the House and to offer any threat or imprecation. I say this to the honourable gentleman: I have knocked about this country a little too long, and probably in rougher quarters than the honourable gentleman, to be moved. 
Would the Minister not be refreshed if he had an occasional swim in it? 
At least I became known as the first streaker in the outback. There is a central question here. It is simple but it is a very important one. The next time anyone of my honourable friends opposite asks for leave to make a statement, do not think that it will be lightly given if honourable members opposite refuse on this occasion to respond to the great demands of parliamentary tradition. If an honourable member asks for leave to make a statement and he abuses it - I would like to conduct the Minister for Labour, and he would be in better turn in an hour or so if I could get my hands on him. Do not think for one moment that leave will be lightly granted in the future. The next time that the Leader of the House - 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable gentleman will debate the question. 
I am coming to it. 
I may be threatening but you are deserving of every syllable of threat. The point is whether or not this Parliament now should turn to the urgency of allowing the people of Australia to judge who in effect this afternoon was telling the truth. Diogenes would - 
I was fascinated by the Minister for Overseas Trade, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  when he said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of Australia had made friends in Asia and South East Asia. I detected a note of regret on the part of the honourable gentleman that the Prime Minister did not say that he had made friends in Lalor. But still, be that as it may, as I listened to the honourable gentleman I was reminded of the life of a very remarkable Australian, a clergyman by the name of Knight, He was an archdeacon. Indeed, he christened me and he used to delight in telling me a story. 
I think he would do it twice. He used to delight in telling the story that as a young acolyte priest he prepared his first sermon, took it into his tutor and showed it to him. He said:  'Sir, what  do you think of this?' The tutor read it through and said: Knight, this shows remarkable promise. Obviously you have a great vocation. The sympathy, the empathy, the style, the sense of conduct and of language that you have intruded into it all make it a glorious thing to read'. The young acolyte went to leave the tutor's study. As he got to the door the tutor called him back and said: 'Knight, may I make a suggestion to you?' The acolyte said: 'Oh, yes,  Sir. What  is it?' The tutor said: 'Knight, may I suggest to you that your sermon would be improved if you cut it in half, and it wouldn't matter greatly which half you left out.' I say that to the Minister for Overseas Trade; it would not mattei which half he left out. 
I would not seek to combat in every detail the speech of the Minister for Overseas Trade, but I am reminded of another story - not a clerical one on this occasion but one which was told in one of the Parliaments of this country, the Queensland Parliament. 
Cleanliness has followed me all the days of my life. The  speaker  in that Parliament turned to the Government and said: What is this Government trying to do? I will tell you what this Government is trying to do. It has gathered up the reins of the ship of state and it is galloping pell mell towards the edge of the precipice'. That is exactly what this Government is trying to do. One of the chief pilots and captains in this business is the Minister for Overseas Trade, as is the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is now sitting at the table with an exulting smile on his face. I do not want to indulge needlessly in the polemics of the occasion. 
You would need to be desperate to be caught by it. There are very few certainties in this world. One of course is taxes and another is death. For myself, 1 find the greatest of difficulty in facing and accepting either of them with equanimity, at least cheerfully. Apparently there is a third one which, speaking in terms of general events, one may say looms in front of us, that is, the prospect of a double dissolution. I want to say something about that. For myself I would welcome a double dissolution - both Houses out to the people. There is no doubt about that. I hope that even the dumbest among us would understand that - both Houses out to the people to face our masters and to settle the dust of conflict once and for all. I would like the Minister for Services and Property and all my friends opposite to know that I welcome that. For my part, I say to them: We will meet at Philippi. I also give them this warning: Do not think for one moment that when that encounter takes place you will be confronted by a ghost. I assure the Minister for Services and Property and all who sit behind him that I will do my utmost, and with what impoverished means I have at my disposal, to ensure that after the election they sit on the Opposition side and we sit on the Government side. It would seem to me to be a very proper response. 
When I look at the Minister, 1 conclude that it is no wonder that people spent 40 days and 40 nights in the wilderness. I want to say to the House and to the country that while in this House I challenge on the most proper of grounds the basis of this election - and I will do so in the electorate - I will have something to say about the circumstances under which it is brought. I say to the House that I believe that the Government, led by my friend the honourable member for Werriwa, is one of the most disastrous governments in Australia's history. 
I did not expect you to receive this with exultation. This Government has encouraged in the country the view that there is no sense of discipline to be observed in any measure of things. And now in this Parliament, the national Parliament of the country, one cannot even get a cup of tea or a sandwich. The Government cannot run a refreshment room. What prospect has it to run a country? 
 Obviously difficulty has a catholic selection. What has happened in the country is that industrial conditions are so desperately disturbed that apparently no obligation is cast upon people to observe any norm in any sort of operation. Whatever consequence this may have had, it has had the consequence of contributing enormously to inflation in this country. Let no person here or outside the Parliament sneer at inflation. It was all very fine for my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to say as he sat in Opposition: "There is no duty cast on those in Opposition to do anything about inflation'. The fact is that inflation today in Australia is raging between 13 per cent and 16 per cent. This is making the rich richer and the poor poorer and it is undermining the whole stability and the whole fabric of this country. That is why I say to my friends opposite: 'No matter how this election may be brought about, count upon one thing: Wherever I am given a platform in this country, I warn you, I will ensure that the people of Australia understand the sense of irresponsibility that controls you.' Having said that, I hope by way of splendid neutrality, I turn to a matter that gives me considerable anxiety, which I do not disguise. I have had nearly 20 years in this place. 
 Yes, but threatened men live long. Whatever else, I have come to respect the authority of this House and I hope to take a quiet pride in its authority. Therefore, I want to turn to something that probably would cast me more in a sense of controversy with those on this side than those on the other side, not for the first time and, I would like to think, not for the last time. 
Section 53 of our Constitution provides - with incipient old age gathering upon me, 1 have to put on my glasses to read it: 
Except as provided in this section, the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in respect of all proposed laws. 
That brings me to our present dilemma. Three exceptions are set out, and they all deal with the introduction and amendment of money laws and with taxation. They put in simple language, I suggest, the difference between this House and the Senate. I am accused of succumbing a little too willingly to the Westminster practice. That may well be. I just want to say this: Every cent that governments in this country spend originates by the authority of this House, and the fact that the Crown and the Senate approve of it merely passes it into law. Without the authority and the initiative of this House, not one cent is to be spent by any government. If one is to take section 53 of the Australian Constitution, one is drawn inexorably to one conclusion, namely, that technically speaking the Senate has a right to reject a Supply Bill, but the very moment that it accepts that right it infringes the Constitution because it is no longer exercising a power which is equal to that of this House; it is exercising a power which is superior to that of this House. 
Let me put this to my friends - and it worries me greatly in terms of the present aggregation of problems but not in terms, I assure you, of eternity: Let me assume that my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  puts down a Supply Bill, we pass it here, and it goes to the House of Representatives. 
I am sorry. One is entitled to a minor aberration on occasions. It goes to the Senate and it is rejected by the Senate. What is the consequence that follows from that? It is not the Senate that goes to the people; it is the House of Representatives that goes to the people. A lot of confusion has intruded into our .present circumstance because double dissolution machinery is already ticking over, as I have described it, and, if the Senate rejects an Appropriation Bill or Supply, it is not that rejection that enables the Prime Minister of the country, whoever he may toe, to go to the GovernorGeneral and say 'Your  Excellency,  I request a double dissolution'; it is the fact that the Senate has twice, pursuant to section 57 of the Constitution, rejected a Bill passed by this House. 
Whatever blemishes of conduct we may have individually or corporately in this place, I want to make my position perfectly clear. I refuse to accept the proposition that the House of Representatives in the national Parliament of the country is inferior to the Senate. Is that clearly understood? I refuse to accept the proposition that the House of Representatives can, in particular circumstances, be sent packing to the country by the Senate. 1 may stand alone on this issue. 
I may be wrong on this issue. I have not the slightest doubt that if I am wrong on this issue time, with its own immaculate determination to remember the error, will remind every person of it. If I should perchance be right on this issue, I would ask for nothing else than to be left in peace. 
The last thing I want to say to this House - the House which has favoured me on occasions and frowned on me, I suspect more frequently than it has favoured me - is that, if the Senate sets this precendent, then we are cast into a circumstance that may call for an entirely new initiative in Australian politics. I have indicated - I suppose I was wrong to indicate it, but being as I am I have done so - that if the Senate does what is in prospect I will introduce a private member's Bill which would seek to add to section 57 of the Constitution a provision which would read to this effect: 
Where the Governor-General is required to dissolve the House of Representatives pursuant to the Senate rejecting a Supply or Appropriation Bill, the GovernorGeneral shall simultaneously dissolve the Senate. 
It seems to me to be a quite extraordinary proposition that the Senate, by dint of obduracy or wilfulness or sheer antagonism to the politics of this place, could say to the House of Representatives: 'We reject Supply; out you go. We stay here virgo intacta'. The great authority of the Australian Parliament, I suggest, resides in this chamber. I refuse, no matter what the pressures may be, to succumb or to bow to them or before them. I have had exquisite pleasure in sitting in this chamber. The fact that I have sought to get some humour from the conflict is not meant to indicate that I do not dislike the philosophy or the policies of my opponents and I hope that the fact that I have risen here will not indicate to people that I have abandoned the essential philosophy of the Party to which I belong. We will meet at Philippi. Do not forget that,  Mr Minister.  I can assure you of one thing: You will not. 
I have no wish to hurt the feelings, as yet, of any honourable gentleman on the Government side, but I am bound to say to them, on behalf of the Opposition, that the Opposition cannot concede that the honourable member for Sydney is a latter day Solomon. One has only to look at his performance in the last Parliament and the manner in which the honourable gentleman summarily removed from our presence on a number of occasions members of the Opposition who had given but scant cause for offence. I can recall vividly the impeccable behaviour of my friend, the honourable member for Mackellar. He is possessed of no more than a very gentle spirit that seeks to express a point of view, and on several occasions that led to the honourable gentleman being removed from this place in a manner which hurt the feelings of us all. Also dealt with in this way was the honourable member for Barker. Who will forget the injured, the pained, look on the face of my friend, the honourable member for Barker, as he left the chamber? Another was the honourable member for Wannon. 
And the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  It is a quartet. 
And the honourable member for Gippsland. It rolls on. It is the role of melancholy behaviour; that is the only way to describe it. All of these honourable gentlemen have brought to the conduct of this Parliament a quiet, firm, insistent dignity. Another honourable member who was suspended was the honourable member for Kennedy. One only has to look at the countenance of the honourable member for Kennedy to realise that he is almost in a state of grace. Imagine him giving offence. Yet the honourable member for Sydney named him. It would hurt me, it would pain me, if I were to detail all of the blemishes that we have apprehended on the part of the honourable member for Sydney. Indeed, that would detain us in this place beyond the point of forbearance. 
On the other hand, we come to the splendid, lively qualities of the honourable member for Angas. He, in his own way, has brought to this Parliament a great feel for the parliamentary institution. He brings to parliamentary activity a quiet, insinuating sense of humour, but beyond that he brings to the Parliament a very profound understanding of what Parliament is all about. This is the judgment which will be made by all honourable members. Having regard to the massive sense of impartiality that pervades the Government side, I am quite sure that a number of honourable members on that side will join the Opposition when the vote is taken. 
 One would hesitate to say of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that he is one of the sensitive souls in this Parliament. But I think we are probably being a little harsh on the honourable gentleman. The simple fact of the matter is that for a person to put down a guillotine of this character he must be under very considerable stress and strain, and there is probably a very simple explanation of that. I thing it is this: The honourable gentleman is suffering from very advanced fatigue. He has returned to this country after having studied the Canadian election. 
What desperately hard work that would be. How exhausting! The Canadians use the first past the post voting system. How does it work? The honourable gentleman fled this country for 3 or 4 weeks and he has come back  -  I must say this to my colleague- in a s'ate of acute exhaustion. What is the consequence? He has put down a guillotine of this character. The honourable gentleman knows this perfectly well. Are we to look upon this 
House as a symposium of ciphers? What about the 15 new members in this Parliament who have not spoken on this legislation? What about the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  who has joined us from Western Australia and to whom we give a welcome. At least we give him a tentative welcome at the moment. We may rescind it later; who knows? But what of the honourable gentleman's views on all of these Bills? Is he to be heard to speak? What of the views of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)?  What of the honourable member for- 
Yes, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  We would be most delighted to hear their views. I would welcome hearing the views of those honourable gentlemen. But no, the Minister comes in and says: 'No, you cannot talk'. As my colleague says, 10 minutes are given over to the second reading discussion. I think the Minister would do us all a favour if he were to have some consultation with people, if he were to have a sleep for a few days. Obviously he is suffering from very acute fatigue indeed. Of course, this is not new to the honourable gentleman. Some years ago he went away and he was lost for 9 months. A search party was sent out for him. Not since the days of Ludwig Leichhardt had such a fuss been created. 
He commanded the soubriquet 'Dilly-dally Daly' on his return. The question being asked in every corridor around the place was: 'Where has he got to?' The honourable gentleman needs more than water; he needs something to go with it to quieten him down. He cannot be serious in saying to this Parliament, the national Parliament, that 6 Bills should be put through in this fashion. The Minister has our sympathy. We are prepared to try to grapple with him. We are prepared to try to understand him. But he should not treat this Parliament as though it is, as 1 say, a symposium of ciphers, because before much longer he will regret it and he will come to me and say in his own inimitable fashion, sobbing here and there: 'Jim, I am sorry'. 
The cynicism of the Government, of course, is palpable and clearly revealed. This Bill, which the Committee is now invited to consider - and I point out that we have but a few minutes to do this - is one on which a number of new members have not had the opportunity of giving their views. These are honourable members who represent, I suppose, in total, approximately one million people-- 
I would have thought that the honourable gentleman would have the sense of fairness to concede that 15 new members who have come into this place are entitled to be heard. Is this one of the great new emanicipated qualities of the Australian Labor Party? Does it no longer believe in the right of people to be heard? Is that your case? Is that your argument? Well, I say to you that you ought to be thoroughly ashamed of yourself. All the new honourable members who have come into this place and who are sitting on this side of the Committee and all the new honourable members who are on your side of the Committee have come here-- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member for Newcastle, who is interjecting, will return to his place in the Committee. 
Are not these new honourable members who have entered this chamber entitled to be heard? I ask those who sit on the Government benches, madam and honourable gentlemen, whether their minds are so solidly set against argument that they are no longer prepared to listen to argument. Who knows, desperate as the chance may be, but what an argument which fell from the lips of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  might persuade honourable members on the Government side to abandon the project that they have in mind. The powers of persuasion of the honourable gentleman, as Government members will discover, are most profound. But the Government will not even hear him. The Government will not hear any of the new members on this issue. This is a disgraceful state of affairs. 1 will come to what is essentially the nub of the Bill. I want to say to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  - if he can rouse himself from the intense fatigue which has consumed him and driven him to this blind indulgence in irrationality, possibly he. will listen to me - that by the provisions of this Bill the honourable gentleman is proposing to keep this country in a constant state of redistribution. That is the proposal. That is what he wants. If we look at the effect of the last redistribution and apply a 10 per cent quota to that-- 
I understood from obviously unreliable sources that the Minister for the Capital Territory had been taking lessons in good manners since we last met; obviously that is not true. If a 10 per cent quota were applied in those terms, 90 per cent of the federal electorates in this country would be redistributed every 12 months. I have used the argument elsewhere - I do not know exactly where it was - that you might imagine that you were in the seat adjoining the electorate of Hindmarsh, represented by that gentle, fragrant soul, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Fancy facing the prospect, as the result of the redistribution of being swept into his electorate. You would be entitled to be in a constant state of eccentricity. Let us take the argument a little further. Imagine you were in the seat adjoining that of the Minister of Services and Property, Grayndler. I am accused by my family of making noises in my sleep at night. They would be genuine noises if I faced the prospect of being redistributed into the Minister's electorate. 
Is there not to be any balance? Is there not to be any reason in the way that we conduct our affairs? The Minister for Services and Property is inviting the national Parliament to put on the statute book an Act the effect of which will be to have p. constant state of redistribution in this country. I invite the honourable gentleman to consider my argument. He is not as unreasonable as he holds himself out to be and I am quite sure that with a little effort he will see the light; just try a little harder. The honourable gentleman will have to set up in this country a permanent set of distribution commissioners. That is what you ask us to do? There was your Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the other night saying: 'We will cut back on Government expenditure'. What you are proposing to do by the provisions of this Bill is to increase Government expenditure because 18 distribution commissioners will be required. If the 2 Territories are to be included, 24 distribution commissioners will be needed. 

 Mr Daly - Bjelke-Petersen would be chief commissioner. 
Why do you not recall  His Excellency,  the Australian Ambassador to Ireland, and put him in charge of the redistribution? When he led the Labor Government in Queensland, by contrast  Sir Thomas  Playford was an amateur in the matter of arranging redistributions. This is the Labor technique. Not since the days when Charlemagne ruled over Europe was there such a long period of government held than by that Labor Government in Queensland. How did that Government do that? It was achieved by the simple device of the gerrymander. As the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said in his excellent speech on the second reading, the whole sinister purpose of this Bill is to seek to give to the Australian Labor Party perpetuity of power. I say to the Minister for Services and Property: You overlook one salient feature. It is this: Power,  Mr Minister,  has a most corrosive influence. Already I see it eating into your soul and into your judgment. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
I am delighted to find the honourable member so cheerful about it. I always have a preference for pleasant faces. This is the second measure introduced by the Government which seeks to give it a long spell in office. The significance of the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill is of very great magnitude. It seeks to give to the Territories representation in the Senate. Speaking for myself, the Northern Territory is represented in this Parliament by a very distinguished1 and gallant gentleman. I have the utmost respect for the work he does and for the manner in which he does it. I say that not to pre-empt the honourable gentleman in any shape or form. Those who have sat in the Parliament with him, putting it in homely language, know his worth. But this Bill does not seek merely to give representation to the Territories as such. It seeks to undermine the whole structure of the Australian Constitution. This argument is not a difficult one to comprehend at all but it should be listened to with some measure of attention. 
When the Constitution was drawn up the option was for 2 Houses of Parliament. We are not in a position to rewrite the Australian Constitution but we are under a clear obligation to ensure that the provisions which exist in the Constitution are respected until such time as the people of Australia elect to alter them. That is the difference between the approach of the Australian Labor Party and that of the Liberal and Australian Country Parties. Until such time as the people of Australia by a clear vote say 'We wish to alter the Constitution' we should respect its terms. Under this Bill the Government seeks to disturb completely the equilibrium, between the 2 Houses of Parliament. The powers ranged between the House of Representatives and the Senate are clearly defined. For example, we find that the number of members who sit in this House, according to the terms of the Constitution, shall be as near as practicable twice the number of honourable senators. In this fashion the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is seeking to disturb that situation. Section 24 of the Constitution does not speak about categories or classes of senators. The language is quite clear: It speaks about senators. The moment we introduce into the Senate by this means additional honourable senators we pave the way for extra members to be appointed into this House. That is the first argument to be attended to. As for the Minister, he has given us his credo in his second reading speech. He expressed himself in these words: 
We believe that while the national Parliament remains bicameral, the people of the Territories-  1 ask honourable member to note the plural -  like all the people of Australia should be represented in both chambers. 
At first blush that does not seem to be an exceptional point of view at all. One could ask: What is wrong with that?' The simple truth of the matter is that the Minister is highly selective of those people of the Territories whom he wishes to see represented here. I ask honourable members to examine the Minister's argument for a moment. It is not only the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory which are territories of Australia. What about Ashmore and Cartier Islands? What about Cocos Island? What about Antarctica? What about Heard Island? Bless my heart and soul,  Mr Minister,  if you try hard enough you could be on Christian name terms with every penguin on the island in 3 months. If your logic is as pure as you claim it is why do you not say that the people - not the penguins - living in these territories also are entitled to be represented in the Senate? What is so inferior about the people who live on Heard Island? Why should they not be represented in the. Senate?  Mr Minister  you embrace your logic. It is a pity it did not embrace you and do so in a pretty severe fashion. But this is your logic. You say that the people of the Territories deserve to be represented. What the Government is seeking to do is not merely to frustrate the workings of the Australian Constitution but to destroy the whole structure. I am indebted to the Minister for shaking his head in such vigorous agreement with the proposition. At least we have that on the record. What a pity we can not get that delicate bouncing up and down of those lovely features in Hansard. 
Obviously their numbers are one deficient because that is the proper place for the Minister. I say this to the Minister: Why pick on merely the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. We would love to hear the Minister on this point. As a rule he has no difficulty in expressing himself. Is this a new manifestation of fatigue after his busy, boistrous, Canadian tour finding out how the first past the post system of voting works? We would like to know why the Minister is selective. What is wrong with the people in the other Territories? I hope that this Parliament and the people of Australia will clearly understand the significance of this Bill because if senators are appointed to represent the Territories, to that extent the Government is diminishing the value the Senate. It is proposed to have 2 senators to represent each of these Territories. At the present state of play the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  represents the whole of the Northern Territory. In effect the Government takes hold of section 24 of the Constitution, which places an obligation on this Parliament to have twice the number of people here as in the Senate, and says 'Well, as far as the Northern Territory is concerned we will have 2 representatives in the Senate for the one representative here'. By what quirk of logic does the Government arrive at that interpretation of section 24? I know that I should not ask the Minister questions, because I stand in peril of receiving desperately dull answers. Section 122 of the Australian Constitution, to which the Minister has referred, says: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
I can recall the Minister in the previous debate saying that this section is entirely permissive. Whether one accepts that description or not is beside the point but it is certainly not permissive in terms of reason - I invite the honourable gentleman to pay some heed to reason - to say that its permissiveness runs to the extent of giving the ACT five or six senators or even 9 senators - one can pick any number one likes. The whole purpose of this section, as one will see if one reads the Constitutional Convention debates of the 1890s, was that as a territory assumed new responsibilities and a new status it entered the Federation on a different basis. The basis of its entering the Federation was to be that it had something approaching the responsibilities of a State. Again f ask the honourable gentleman whether he seriously suggests that the Australian Capital Territory, as it is today, has the responsibilities oast upon it that, say, the State of New South Wales has. One could take the 
State of Victoria or the State of South Australia. I would be interested to know whether the exuberant Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  would go to the Premier of South Australia and say to him:  'Mr dear  Don Dunstan, I want you to know that the Australian Capital Territory has far, far greater responsibilities than you have.' One has only to state the proposition to see the absurdity of it. At least that goes for normal people, but we have to exclude some on that basis. Even the Minister for the Capital Territory will concede that that is the case. I know that he is about to say something because I can hear him thinking. 
Unlike the honourable gentleman, I think before I open my mouth. I want to put it to the House that this proposal disturbs the entire relationship between the 2 Houses. The Minister for Services and Property has given no explanation as to why he singles out two of the Territories. He has given us no indication as to what proposals he has in mind regarding the other Territories. He has given us no indication or explanation as to why 2 senators are required to represent the Northern Territory when one person in this place represents the Northern Territory. He has given us no explanation as to why we should have 2 senators representing the Northern Territory, so reversing the existing provision in section 24 of the Constitution. The simple truth of the matter is that the Minister has merely given a quiet, benevolent description of this Bill as it suits his purpose. He has given us no critical analysis of it. 
I invite the honourable gentleman to reflect again on the seriousness of this measure. It is not good enough merely to say that the people of the Territories deserve to be represented. He must ensure that they are represented on a proper basis. That is the argument of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. It is an argument which I find highly intelligible. It is an argument I respect. But nothing that the honourable gentleman from the Northern Territory has said goes to the limit as suggested by the Minister in this Bill. What the Minister is seeking to do is to pervert the whole working of the Australian Constitution. This is the last word I shall say to the Minister on this matter: It may well be that as of now the people of Australia do not quite comprehend what the Minister has in mind, but when full understanding dawns upon them, I can assure him that they will understand in political terms to his disadvantage. This is one of those incredibly sinister attempts brought about by a government desperate in its ways. 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Education and concerns grants for 1974 and 1975. By way of very brief preface I remind the Minister that the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission in its report referred to the fact that because of time it was not possible to construct indexes to lay the basis for grants  for the years 1974 and 1975. While acknowledging the manner in which many of the recommendations have been implemented and the conspicuous role played by my honourable friend, I ask: Does the Minister acknowledge that the formula given by the Karmel Committee of a few years ago is no longer adequate because of the ravages of inflation? Can the Minister say when the Schools Commission will present to the Government indexes upon which to base future grants? 
With some very considerable reluctance I agree that the Bill be taken as a whole, because I have a number of questions to ask. I know that I stand in splendid certainty of getting pretty dull answers from the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who is in charge of the Bill. Now I will start the questions. If the Minister looks at clause 5 he will see that the Bill says: 
The Governor-General may appoint a Judge to be the Chief Judge for a District or Districts. 
I want to ask the Minister: How many districts has the Government in mind? Further, may I ask the Minister: How are the districts to be determined? Are they to be determined with regard to States or regions, or are they to be determined according to accessibility of judges? That is the first question. 
Having regard to the fact that the benches on all sides of the Parliament hardly disclose an eager and thronged attendance, one would hesitate to say that this is a measure which is causing tumult throughout the country. I cannot recall for the life of me in years when such a measure has occasioned such massive disinterest. But be that as it may, this in no way diminishes the importance of the measure, and I will turn to the importance of it later. I excuse myself for the present from answering the academic arguments put by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  with, I thought, his customary courtesy and sense of punctilio. I turn instead to what I would describe as being the most substantial argument that has yet been offered by the Government in support of this Bill and in a word it is this: This Bill- 
Come now. We are entitled to a mead of extravagance on both sides. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who is in charge of the Bill, has said that this Superior Court of Australia Bill was introduced by a number of distinguished Australian Attorneys-General. He shakes his head feverishly at that proposition. 
He agrees with me. They are fine men. I ask the Minister to nod his head. I prefer that movement to his shaking head. It is a great argument that the Minister used. When he introduced the Bill he said that  Sir Garfield  Barwick first proposed it. That is a proposition I do not contest. 
Let us stop with  Sir Garfield  Barwick. If  Sir Garfield  Barwick first proposed the Bill and ergo it should be accepted then everything else proposed by  Sir Garfield  Barwick should be accepted. 
If you do not mind my saying so, your logic has reached a curious stage. 
And as I look at the judge I say: 'Justice I have now before me, august and pure'. What a curious reaction from the Minister. After all, it was  Sir Garfield  Barwick in his role as Attorney-General who introduced the amendment to the Crimes Act. If I may recall, with the imperfection of memory, the most vociferous complainants about these amendments were the members of the Australian Labor Party who on that occasion sat on this side of the House. 
The Minister's logic is not merely curious; I think it is thoroughly embarrassing. But put that to one side. One of the distinguishing features of the Liberal tradition adverted to by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  in a conspicuously refreshing speech this evening is the assertion that if one is convinced by argument, surrender. And if I may without offence to my distinguished and gallant friends who sit on the Country Party benches, I include them as well. The Australian Labor Party's view is: Never mind the quality of argument, capitulate. That is the difference between the two.  Sir Garfield  Barwick was thoroughly convinced of the inadequacy of the proposal of a Superior Court when it had been argued before him. How frequently has it been the Minister's experience that when he has appeared before a magistrate or a judge or a full court and has put a proposal to the court, the court at the outset has been dead against him? No counsel worthy of his salt should resile from that. It should encourage from him all of the instincts and skills at his command to beckon that court to a different view. And this is precisely what has happened in this instance. 

 Sir Garfield Barwick,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Bowen, the former Attorney-General and my very dear friend, Tom Hughes, who was one of the ornaments of the parliamentary institution, did not have to be convinced about it but my honourable friend on that occasion was convinced. Take any one of them today. They have all abandoned the views that they held. To abandon a view is not to indicate some intellectual inadequacy or some weakness. Not at all. I am grateful to my friend for indicating assent to that. But what I express concern about is the person who says: 'I have made up my mind. Whatever argument you present to me it will have no effect upon me'. It is not as though this Superior Court of Australia Bill deals merely with courts. It is not as though we are dealing with something which is the arid subject of discussion by lawyers. We are dealing with something which involves the whole character or the nation. 
At first blush that may seem to be an extravagant statement. I am not one of those who marches in step with M. Chauvin, that distinguished soldier in Napoleon's army who gave rise to the word 'chauvinism'. I have a tremendous love for this country and for its institutions. During nearly 20 years that I have spent as a member of this Parliament I have sought, I should like to think above all other considerations, to present the view that the country should encourage an appropriate priority for national consciousness whatever our provincial affinities and whatever our provincial links and allegiance may be. It has not always been a very popular case to pursue. Speaking for myself, it has not always been a very restful policy to pursue. But if I thought for one moment - I say this to my friend the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, who is in charge of the Bill - that this Bill would in fact encourage a proper priority for national consciousness I would support it with my voice, with my vote and with my commitment My colleagues on both sides of the House would know that that is no idle declaration. 
But I take the view that this Bill does in fact have the very opposite effect of encouraging the sense of national consciousness. In the few moments which are left to me I shall seek to demonstrate just that. The function of law  is  to regulate the rights of citizens between and among themselves and their relationship to the State - that is to say, to the State in its corporate sense. Law in this sense has a corporate character and the supremacy of that law is absolutely vital for the maintenance of the nation's stability whether we are talking about this nation or any other nation. If we are going to determine our law by prejudice, by instinct, by volition, or by spontaneous response, then, as the great Edmund Burke reminds us, we will finish in disaster because man cannot enjoy the rights of a civil and an uncivil society together. One must opt for one or the other. This may be a little old hat, but we deserve to be reminded of some of these old views in an age that is inclined to the attitude that it knows all, understands all and is resentful of any intruding attitude which smacks of the ancient. Before federation the 6 Australian colonies shared one thing in common. What was that? It was the common law. 
Yes it was - above all other things they shared the common law. When the colonies became States and entered the Federation they still shared that and the Federation was the inheritor of the common law. So the 6 colonies, in their corporate sense shared one institution above all other considerations - the common law. A recognition of that fact led to one of the most singular developments in the world. That development was described by 5 judges in the High Court in the boilermakers' case in 1955, led by  Sir Owen  Dixon, then Chief Justice of Australia and probably the greatest exponent of the common law the world has ever known. With 4 other justices including McTiernan, Fullager and Kitto agreeing with Dixon C.J., he described this as the autochthonous expedient. Please forgive the word. It is not mine but their honours'. The autochthonous expedient - native to the land, indigenous. This has been one of the great expedients in Australia common to no other country where a federation has come into being and federal jurisdiction has been conferred on the components of the federation. What has been the effect of that? It has not had the effect of pulling them apart. There has been no centripetal force at work at all. 
I am sorry. I should have said 'no centrifugal force' - pulling to the centre. There has been a pulling to the centre by dint of that. It has not flown apart. For example, in a matrimonial causes case which is heard in the State of Queensland a point of law may be ruled upon by a judge in that State. A similar case may arise say, in the State of my friend the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  South Australia. The judge hearing the case there may say that he will listen to counsel on the point of law in question. It is pointed out that the Chief Justice of Queensland,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Campbell had something to say on the point. What is the answer to that? There has been a continuation of the common law in this sense that there has been a pulling together of the attitudes of those involved. It has been quite peculiar to Australia - the autochthonous expedient. My friend the Minister for Manufacturing Industry is a man - I say this in no patronising sense - of immense compassion. He is a man who, with respect, is prepared to recognise that where merit of argument does exist there is absolutely nothing to prevent him from accepting the argument. I say to my friend that it cannot be shown that what we have done here in Australia has been to the detriment of Australia. Why should we seek to break with this? When we go to litigate, any one of us, we do not go into a court to inquire what is the jurisdictional base upon which the court exists. A man or woman goes to court to have his or her rights litigated or responsibilities settled, not to have some dry jurisdictional problem settled. 
No. I feel angry about the matter. I am entitled to feel angry about it because in this country we do not have it now but what we do have we should seek to diminish and not to increase, to intensify and to exacerbate the difficulties. That is what I say to my friends opposite. The influence upon the whole country by the experience has been a refreshing one. It has inclined to encourage what I have described as a proper priority for national consciousness. Under this Bill what does the Government seek to do? What it seeks to do, as my friend the honourable and learned member for Wentworth said, is to reduce the status of the State Supreme Courts. Why not give to the Supreme Courts of the States all the work which the Government seeks now to give to the Commonwealth Superior Court? At a time when this Parliament and the country is conscious of demands upon the resources and money, why not give them the work? Surely no person sitting in this Parliament with 2 wits to rub together would gainsay that all the paraphernalia of courts cannot be set up without immense expense. Nothing turns on this. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, the people at Wooloomooloo, Kings Cross, Rocklea or St Kilda are not in a tumult over this issue. 
Even Eccles, that most percipient of minds, has not been ruffled by it. I say to my friend with no sense of acrimony and no sense of partisanship that nothing is to be gained by it. I have referred to  His  Honour the late Chief Justice Dixon who led the High Court when he described the unique Australian experience of the autochthonous expedient. May I read to the House what  His  Honour  Sir Owen  Dixon said many years ago, on 14 March 1935, in a lecture entitled 'The Law and the Constitution' delivered in Scots Church Hall, Russell Street, Melbourne. This was at a time, of course, when the sins of this generation were not understood. He, in his own wonderful, immaculate way, propounded views which reach out, I would think and suspect, for all generations to grasp and I hope understand - even our generation. He wrote about the development of the 2 systems of courts and he said: 
But neither from the point of view of juristic principle nor from that of the practical and efficient administration of justice can the division of the Courts into state and federal be regarded as sound. 
That voice reaches out to this Parliament today. This was no ordinary man. This was a giant among lawyers. That voice reaches out to this Parliament today and sounds a note of caution. I hope we have the sense of sense and of history to respond to it. 
I would be quite prepared to describe the speech that was delivered by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  as being a rustic speech, but I would hesitate somewhat to describe him as being one of the great lovers of the outback. For example, he would hardly fit my picture of the quiet stockman of Aeneas Gunn's acquaintance in 'We of the NeverNever' and I would find it very difficult indeed, from looking at the honourable member and, in particular, from listening to his speech, to imagine that he would be roused to a point of exhilaration by the tang of the gilguy holes or the rustle of the galahs as he cracked a stockwhip while mustering in the channels of the outer Barcoo. 
The honourable gentleman has delivered a speech which is atypical of the Australian Labor Party's attitude to the whole of this country. It takes the view that this country consists of one, two, maybe three, cities and that those who live in the rest of it can make whatever arrangements they like. I do not propose to traipse over the honourable member's speech in its entirety because that would be a burden that I would find rather difficult to undertake - at least cheerfully. It would be a burden that I am sure the House would regard as being a crashing bore. But I will come back to the honourable gentleman's speech occasionally and touch him very lightly with the blades as I go by. 
What amazes me about this entire enterprise is the approach adopted by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in making the speech he made the other night in relationship with the speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Special Minister of State has always given me the impression of being a reasonable man. Indeed, I suppose that it could be said that he is the personification of a reasonable man who would appear on the Clapham bus. But on the same day as he presented the Vernon Commission's report concerning a proposed new Post Office structure and before we had an opportunity to consider the report in all of its ramifications, what did the Minister do? He came into this chamber and, after referring to the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the last Premiers Conference, said: 
These are required- 
The increases in postal and telephone rates being debated today -  to ensure that the rates which customers pay for Post Office services are sufficient to cover costs and also provide a surplus which can be reinvested to help meet the growing demand for service. 
I ask the Special Minister of State: Why does he not give the proposed new Post Office administration a go? Admittedly, the last 20 months of control by the present Government has put the affairs of the Post Office into a measure of mess, but it is not beyond resuscitation completely. I am quite sure that if it had behind it the splendid business mind of one of the commissioners who I understand will run the business side of the Post Office- 
 Mr Kennedy.  I may speak from the prejudice of friendship in saying that I have a tremendous admiration for his capacity, for his imagination and for his drive. I am assuming that the Parliament will agree to the new structure that has been proposed. I am not arguing about the merits of it at the moment/Taking that as the assumption, why not give the new Post Office an opportunity to try to sort out the devastating mess that has been created in the course of the last 20 months? I think that that is a reasonable question to ask. 
My friend said: '20 years'. The honourable member for Shortland took the view that virtue had been introduced into the Post Office only in the last 20 months. 
The Minister should not be too impatient to get to the truth, because it will arrive even if it has to come to him by pony express. Let us listen to what the present Treasurer had to say, as a member of the Opposition, in 1968. That is not in the dim distant past. He said: 
I for one have always expressed great admiration for the efficiency of the Post Office. 
I do not know of a person in the country who would be prepared to say that today of the present Post Office administration under the control of the present Government. Indeed, the lamentations up and down the countryside in the last 20 months concerning the administration of the Post Office would put Ezekiel himself to shame. The present Treasurer, in dealing with the subject of corporations, also said in 1968: 
Candidly, I have always been a great admirer of the Public Service form of operations for the Post Office and not a great lover of what is called a public corporations device. Many angles and aspects of the matter need to be considered. 
If the Special Minister of State wants to say that what the Treasurer told the House the other evening was correct, I invite him to consider whether what the Treasurer said in relation to the Post Office some five or six years ago was incorrect. 
I wish to deal now with the end of the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State. I shall deal only with the beginning and the end of it. I shall spare the House what lies in between. The House waited for him to come to his peroration. I suppose I would be entitled to describe the wait for that peroration, without exaggerating the position, by saying that a distinct hush came over the House. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  agrees with me. We were waiting for the end, and this is what he had to say: 
The Government is concerned about the rate of inflation - 
That was the first sentence of the peroration - 'The Government is concerned about the rate of inflation' -  and will continue vigorous efforts against it with the object of reducing it to 8 per cent by mid-1975. 
I hope he never tips racehorses to me. He continued: 
In the meantime, however, the cost increases incurred by the Post Office must be passed on to a greater degree than formerly, as with other business undertakings. 
There is no ambiguity about the honourable gentleman's declaration. He says: 'As the Government we are concerned about the rate of inflation.' Let me test the proposition. I go back. I hope that I will not be accused of being a scavenger of Hansard but I listen avidly to everything the Prime Minister of the country says. I read avidly everything he writes. I recall an occasion when he was in this House as Leader of the Opposition, in 1971. Listen to what he had to say about postal increases. He said: 
Postal and petrol increases in the current Budget will inevitably produce an identical effect, as will payroll tax . . . There will be immediate rises in costs to all consumers and there will be an inevitable flowthrough as these charges are passed on later in the year. All these rises could and would have been avoided by a government which genuinely sought to hold prices down. How can we take seriously the rhetoric of Ministers on inflation when the Government makes so consistent and comprehensive a contribution to the rapidity with which living costs increase? 
I fling those words back in the teeth of the Prime Minister. In 1971 he argued from this place in this House that postal increases as such contributed directly, dramatically, clearly, inescapably to inflation. Yet the Special Minister of State in charge of this Bill told us on Tuesday night: 'We are concerned with inflation.' Let me come back, in a glancing fashion albeit, to the honourable member for Shortland. He said that obviously the Post Office must pay its way. 
That was the effect of it. I am trying to be generous and kind, as I am instinctively in these matters, but the honourable gentleman said words to that effect. Let me take the words uttered in this House in 1971 by the present Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  - of course, in Opposition, in a role which I venture to suggest, indulging in a little prophesy myself, could come back to the Labor Party by mid-1975. He declared that the Government was using the Post Office as a tax collector rather than as a service agency, which is what honourable members on this side of the House believe it should be. Whatever the honourable member for Shortland may have said this afternoon, he did not say that the Post Office should be a service agency. But the honourable member for Shortland was on this side of the House in 1971. 
Yes, indeed. 
At least in political sentiment, if not in presence. I understand that the honourable member arrived here after some travail and difficulty with preselection. But was the honourable gentleman moved to write a letter of protest to the Minister for Science in terms of affection and familiarity which now sweep over the Labor Party, starting off 'Dear Bill, the views which you have expressed certainly do not represent my views'. Not a bit of it. The simple truth is that all of us on this side say now and have said for years that there are precepts to be observed in the running of the Post Office. It is certainly to provide a service, certainly to seek to ensure that sound business methods and administration are together observed. But to isolate one from the other is to reduce the entire function of the Post Office to the state of chaos that it is in today. Hundreds of courier services have come into being. People find it difficult today to get a letter sent from one side of the city to another in under 3 or 4 days. An almost overwhelming sense of ill discipline has come into the affairs and the conduct of the Post Office in the last 20 months. 
Now I turn from those observations, which I hope will not be regarded as having been made in any partisan spirit, to the views put by one journal which has had, historically, significant links with the Australian Labor movement. I am referring to the Australian Workers Union, a union which was the birthplace of the great Australian Labor movement in the early days. What did it have to say in its editorial in 'The Worker' on Monday, 3 September 1973? The caption is: 'Labor's "stab in the back" '. It said: 
In one fell swoop the Federal Treasurer- 
That is the Labor Treasurer - cleared the decks, as he put it, to initiate Labor's great welfare program and at the same time he put the kiss of death on every union journal in Australia. 
The editorial continues in that strain; not any paean of praise but a stricture imposed upon the Labor Government. But there has been nothing from the Minister, no expression of regret whatsoever. 
The last comment I would like to make is on what was offered by the honourable member for Shortland in his apologia which he gave to the House this afternoon. He said: 'Look, even though these costs have been inevitable I have some good news for you. There have been reductions in certain fields dealing with telephones.' He said that every honourable member received a personal letter. I would hesitate to describe it as a personal letter, but I received what I would describe as a roneoed letter. It did not start off in any exhilarating terms of affection such as 'My dear Jim'. Here it is. It has the name there - Killen, D. J., Electorate Moreton, Queensland. It is described as a metropolitan area. It then goes on to list all the places, allegedly in my electorate, where telephone charges have been reduced. I hope that the Minister will not be too upset, but of all the places named there at least one of them is not within a bull's roar of my electorate. Indeed some places are up to 100 miles away. It lists Caboolture, Bribie Island, Bryden, Northbrook, Toorbul and Mutdapilly. I can imagine that if the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  ever went through Mutdapilly it would automatically go through his mind and he would say: 'I must go and ring up Jim to prove that I can ring at a cheaper rate'. 
I do not think the Special Minister of State knows what is going on. To use the words famous in this place which were used some years ago dealing with Post Office matters, I think we are a little in the dark. I will say we are in the dark. I say this to the honourable gentleman: 'Here it is. You are in Stygian gloom, in a great cavern. You cannot see any light. You are happy to see the Post Office dismantled.' I wondered why in the course of the last few weeks you have been a different soul. 
Order! The honourable member for Moreton will address his remarks to the Minister through me. 
I will. I say to the Minister,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the simple truth is that the Government does not know what is going on in the field of Post Office administration. The simple truth is that the Post Office today is in a calamitous state. The simple truth is that people are finding it increasingly difficult to get service. They are finding it difficult to get civility from many people connected with the Post Office admin istration. It all comes from the top. If this great enterprise is given leadership it will respond appropriately to that leadership. The ugly truth 'is that today it does not have leadership. It belongs to the legion of the lost. 

 Mr MORRIS (Shortland)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
It should be made clear at the outset what this debate is all about. It does not concern the program of child care services, if I may use that compendious title, as such. It does not concern who or which government was responsible for taking initiatives in various fields. It does not deal with the difficulties associated with preschool education - the social consequences of child care activities. This matter of public importance deals with one matter alone, and that is political repudiation which can only be described as being on a conspicuous scale, the like of which this country has seldom, if ever, known before. I will seek in the time available to me to justify every syllable of that charge. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivered the policy speech for his Party on 29 April of this year he gave the clearest of undertakings regarding child care services - and I use that term 'child care services' for the sake of convenience to cover both preschool education and child care in the sense that we understand it. I would like to read to the House what the honourable gentleman said in his policy speech: 
Child care services will be subsidised with parents contributing to the cost according to their means, the main thrust of the program in the first years being to assist disadvantaged children. It is estimated that the cost of this program in the first year - a program of vision and imagination based on a compassionate understanding of the needs of the child, the parent and the community - will be $130m. 
No person should have any difficulty whatsoever in comprehending the meaning of those words. They are quite clear. He said that in the first year $130m would be spent in this field of activity. It is not a case of adjudicating and saying whether or not that was too much or too little. I am dealing now with the clear understanding given that $130m would be spent. Just a few days ago the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  announced on behalf of the Government that that program had to be trammelled, truncated, and he used language to this effect: 'With the greatest of regret we feel that we cannot embark on a full scale program.' The word 'program' is 'governed by the descriptive expression 'full scale*. When the Prime Minister made his policy speech on 29 April he made references to 3 reports. It is of importance to this House to notice this. On 29 April, 3 reports were mentioned by the honourable gentleman. He said: 
The Government's program for these children reflects the recommendations of the Pre-School Committee, whose report was tabled last December, . . . 
Report No. 1; that is the first report to which the honourable gentleman referred - the Social Welfare Commission, . . . You cannot refer to the recommendation of a body unless the recommendations are before you - at least refer to them in the sense that they influenced your judgment. That was the second matter that influenced the judgment of the Government. As to the third one, the honourable gentleman went on to say: and the Priorities Review Staff. 
It was the recommendations of those 3 bodies that persuaded the honourable gentleman on 29 April to declare on behalf of his Party that there would be this program involving the expenditure of $130m in the first year. Yet just recently the honourable gentleman, referring to the Social Welfare Commission's report, said that it was tabled yesterday. Recently was yesterday, so this was tabled on Tuesday. That is rather curious, is it not? I am sure this will occur to honourable gentlemen: If the report was tabled only yesterday why is it that the honourable gentleman was influenced by it when he made the declaration on 29 April this year? That is the first consideration. Yesterday the honourable gentleman said that the report of the Priorities Review Staff would be tabled today, which it was. How is it that the honourable gentleman was able to say on 29 April that the recommendations made concerning child care services throughout Australia were based on the recommendations of these 3 reports? Were they or were they not available to the honourable gentleman on 29 April? The House must decide for itself where the truth lies in this matter because the truth is not available, on both occasions. 
I would be most grateful to the honourable gentleman if, when he replies to me, he would make this quite clear because there is no indication in the- 
I am most grateful. Certainly that ambiguity lurks over the entire scene and, I suggest, much to the embarrassment of the Government. I do not seek to thrust my honourable friend into any position of discomfort, but any person reading the policy speech of the Prime Minister made on 29 April would and must reach that conclusion. This was not a policy speech penned overnight. It is a matter of public notoriety that a great deal of thought went into its preparation. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  by way of soft and, as one would expect from him, courteous interjection said that the report of the staff of the Priorities Review Committee now available this week is different from the one available last year. Conceding that that is the case, let me for the purposes of argument accept my honourable friend's statement completely. Does the honourable gentleman also say that the Social Welfare Commission report which was tabled on Tuesday is different from the Social Welfare Commission report of last year? With great respect, the honourable gentleman seems to me to be very much in a corner on this point, and the Government is in a corner on this point. A clear undertaking was given about 'vision and imagination' - those lovely encouraging, warming words. Unquestionably thousands of people throughout Australia were impressed with the proposals put by the Prime Minister on 29 April this year. The honourable gentleman's Party advertised its intention in this field on a very lavish scale. The newspaper advertisment 1 hold in my hand is typical of many hundreds of advertisements placed through the country. It states: 
Only Whitlam has a program for child care. 500,000 children will benefit from Whitlam's child care programs by 1977. In the first year he will spend $130m onFamily day care programs. 
Day centres. 
Pre-schools. 
Outside of school care. 
Emergency and occasional care. 
The House will notice the declaration that in the first year he will spend $130m. Last week the Treasurer shattered the vision of his Leader and of his Party. Where is the imagination which possessed the Party on 29 April this year? To where has that gone? As I have said, it is not a case of adjudicating and saying: 'This is too much' or 'too little'. Of course the Government is in trouble. All governments get into trouble and the sense of profligacy which consumes this Government has got it into trouble. But it will not be allowed to get away with this conspicuous example of repudiation - one of the most conspicuous examples, I suggest, in Australia's history. 
But it is not only the repudiation which rouses one to indignation and which has roused the countryside to indignation. There is also a complete absence of frankness by the Government and the Prime Minister. Let me illustrate this to the House. When the Fry Committee report was tabled, my friend the Minister for Education was ill and the special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  acted on his behalf as the Acting Minister for Education. In a statement in this House on 1 1 December 1973 the Minister said that in the case of both child and pre-school facilities there are serious inequalities in existing services and the need for action is urgent. That is a statement from the Government; it is not mine. The need for action is urgent. Where is the urgency now? The vision and imagination are shattered and have dissapeared and the sense of urgency has also disappeared. When the Prime Minister announced on 18 February that the Government had asked the Social Welfare Commission to examine the Fry Committee report he made this announcement in this House. He said: 
The Commission has been asked to make proposals consistent with the Government's policy commitments and the ALP Party Platform on pre-school opportunities and day care. 'Consistent with the Government's policy commitments'. I suppose it is a matter of interpretation where one puts the emphasis in these issues. But it would seem to me and, I suggest, to the reasoned thinking of most people, that here is the first major shift by the honourable gentleman to seek to escape from some of the heavy burdens of the Government's policies which, nevertheless, it cheerfully declared on 29 April that it would accept. 
I come now to the views put by my friend the Minister for Education on 2 March 1974, shortly before we went on our way, cheerfully or otherwise, to Philippi. This is what the honourable gentleman had to say dealing with the Fry Committee's report: 
The report of the Fry Committee had what the Government regards as many interesting and valuable suggestions which undoubtedly will be implemented. But the conviction of the Government was that what the Fry report recommended was not fast enough in view of the spread of pre-school education throughout Australia. Whilst this may have meant a few weeks' delay, and whilst we have been getting a second opinion on the matter and also asking the Fry Committee to discuss this question with the Social Welfare Commission to see what can be done to accelerate the whole program the whole intention of the Government is to accelerate. 
I invite the House just to look back on what was done. I shall recapitulate the major points before I sit down. The Prime Minister, on behalf of his Party, on 29 April announced this program. There was no ambiguity about it whatsoever. He proposed in the first year of the program to spend $130m, in a program of 'vision and imagination'. When the Special Minister of State, as the Acting Minister for Education, made his statement in this House in February he said that action in this field is required urgently. When my friend the Minister for Education spoke on this matter in this House in March he said that the whole program of the Government was to accelerate. So we have visual imagination, urgency and acceleration. But despite the vision, the imagination, the urgency and the acceleration, a few days ago the Treasurer - I can understand the sense of melancholy which no doubt consumed the honourable gentleman - said: 
Given these delays, as well as the now extreme need to restrain the further growth of government spending, the Government has reluctantly decided to postpone until 1975-76 the commencement of the full-scale program. 
The vision has gone; the imagination is now harnessed; the urgency has fled; and as for the program being accelerated, it has been virtually brought to a stop. I finish where I began: This is a conspicuous case of political repudiation. I hope the Government, if it does nothing else, will learn the lesson that it is easy and tempting to promise, but the road to political infamy is marked all the way by acts of repudiation. 
I am immensely relieved to begin participating in this debate by offering congratulations to my friends on the Government benches. I confess quite unashamedly that I admire the splendid dexterity of mind which they have shown during this debate. Beyond that I confess further my intense admiration for the splendid manner in which they can be flexible upon matters of great principle. This is a Party, largely dragooned on occasions, which today has fought with a zeal, which one would describe as being reminiscent of the early apostles, to get through this Parliament- I speak of the parliament in its corporate sense- a Bill to add numbers to the Senate. But, on the other hand, they are deeply committed to the abolition of the Senate. Whatever prejudice may consume you, at least you must admire them for this. Quite unashamedly and unflinchingly I express my admiration. But I am bound to say to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to those who sit behind him- not always with enthusiasm- that I excuse myself for expressing admiration for the passionate display of commitment to their cause to abolish the Senate. Having said that by way of weary introduction, I remind the Parliament that to read the debates of 1 897 dealing particularly with section 57 of the Constitution, which enables both Houses to meet here now to consider this Bill, is to run through the roll of the greats of early Australian history- Deakin, Barton, Trenwith, Glynn, Isaacs, Symon and Forrest. In dealing with this very provision, Symon said: 
If after a double dissolution the Parliament is ever called to consider anything I am quite sure they will approach it with moderation and with fairness. 

 Mr Chairman, if by any chance you should hear during the course of the next day or so a sustained rustling noise, in the language of antiquity 'let not your heart be troubled'. It will not be a noise signifying the arrival of the millenium; it will be merely a noise signifying that the ghosts of the past are fleeing from our presence quite convinced that the hopes of their yesterday are not to be fulfilled in our today. 
The other preliminary observation I make is that I wonder whether when those in the future come to read of this occasion- I forbear from using that adjective which seems to jar upon so many people- they will have a towering impression of the high sense of relevance that grips the Australian Parliament in dealing with a Bill of this nature, to add 4 new senators to the Australian Parliament, at a time when the economy is tottering and when disaffection is present. I would not expect honourable gentlemen and ladies opposite to be thrilled by that observation, but the simple truth is that to add 4 new senators to the Australian Parliament at this time would hardly convey the impression that the Government had a glorious sense of redemption and a high sense of purpose. Those who come later will say of this decision that it represented a monumental piece of folly. 
-I say of the honourable senator who interjects that I would excuse myself from trying rational argument upon him. It would be a desperately unrewarding exercise. The argument put to the Parliament this afternoon by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  may be stated in the form of a very short thesis. It is this: It is the inalienable right of all people to be represented in Parliament. In other words, it was a gloss on the great cry of centuries gone by- no taxation without representation. That was a great cry, a proud cry and a cry which, because it was not understood in England, lost it the American colonies. I do not believe I am doing my friend the Attorney-General any disservice by saying that this is the argument he pressed upon the Parliament this afternoon. I have no wish to injure his collection of sensitive feelings, but that is a very misconceived idea of the purpose of this Bill. The purpose of this Bill, or rather the effect of it, will not be to give people representation in this Parliament. The Bill represents the most significant assault ever on the Australian Constitution. If this Bill is carried, becomes an Act and remains a valid Act of Parliament, it will be the most significant de facto alteration ever made to the Australian Constitution. Let me come to the great cry, the clarion call, that came from the Government benches this afternoon- one vote one value. 
-I am delighted to find that at least there is no look of apostasy on the face of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  because he says 'Hear, hear!' when I mention one vote one value. The past is the past said Government supporters. If that be the case, why did they not decide on this occasion to strike out with new verve, new vigour and a new sense of vision? Why is it that they press upon the Parliament and the people this argument for 2 senators from the Northern Territory and 2 senators from the Australian Capital Territory when the Australian Capital Territory has approximately four times the numbers of voters on its roll as are on the Northern Territory roll? Is that consistency of argument,  Mr Prime  Minister? Is that consistency of argument,  Mr Minister  for Services and Property? No sense of smugness will smile that argument away. 
When one reflects upon the origin of this provision relating to Senate representation for the Territories one finds- again this matter was dealt with at the Adelaide Conference of 1897- that the proposal was put forward that these Territories had first to become States, and by the merest twist of fate, at that time one  Sir Edward  Braddon foresaw this day, and it is one of the ironies of history that the wrong Braddon amendment was accepted. When he sought to press upon those at the Convention that this would happen, even the percipient mind of Deakin caused him to say: The statesmen of the future would never do this. Barton said : 'I urge my honourable friend,  Sir Edward  Braddon, to desist from pressing this amendment because it can serve no purpose'. Deakin went on to argue to his own inimitable fashion: 'Territories- no, there would never be any consideration'. In contradistinction to what was impressed upon us this afternoon by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  the truth of the matter is that at the Adelaide Conference they sought to restrict any suggestion of the Territories being represented to following the American lines where they would turn up and speak but not be heard. That is the background to this matter and I think it deserves to be given. I congratulate  Senator Georges  from Queensland who is trying to interject. We all congratulate him.  His  attempt to interject is the most sustained display of activity that we have seen from him since he has come to this Parliament. 
I want to take the assumption- a rather extravagant one albeit- that this Bill, as an Act, is found to be a valid exercise of power, and I want to show to the Parliament the effect of it upon the Constitution. When the Constitution was drawn up, when it was agreed to by the Australian people, it was agreed to only after very sustained argument and discussion, and it was no lightly arrived at decision. Great persuasive powers had to be brought into play. The smaller States were disturbed as to their position in relation to the larger States. The whole structure of the Senate was built around the design that that would never be given the opportunity to take force. Yet here today we say no; we dismiss it. There is this great inclination to want to dismiss history and not to seek to carve out any worth while niche for ourselves. But on that occasion when the deal was made- it is not to use language of disgrace to so describe it as a deal- there was relief among the smaller States. 
It is all very fine for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to turn to the argument which has been pressed by honourable gentlemen on this side of the chamber regarding the other Territories and to say: 'Oh, well, if they come to a state of development where they have sufficient numbers, certainly we will bring them into the 
Parliament'. The honourable gentleman excused himself from giving the slightest indication of what was, to his mind, sufficient numbers of people. Why is it that on this occasion the Government opts for 2 senators from each of the Territories? Why does it not opt for 4 senators? What is so blessed about the number 2. Is the number 2 completely covered with virtue? There again the Government immediately disturbs the relationship between the House of Representatives and the Senate. There are 2 representatives from the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. If this figure is based on section 24 which governs the relationship of the number of senators to the number of members in the House of Representatives, on the Government's own reasoning there should be at least 4 senators. At least the Government has some measure of virtue- tattered neverthelessavailable to it as far as the Northern Territory is concerned. 
If at some time in the future a government of the day is minded to bring down another Bill to increase the number of senators from two to five, the moment that is done the destruction of the relationship of the 2 Houses is advanced to that extent. That is precisely the point which is not going to be explained away by the Government falling back and saying: 'Well, we are seeking to alter the Representation Act'. Since when has a mere Act of this Parliament sought to put asunder and to disturb the entire constitutional structure of this country? Yet this is precisely what honourable ladies and gentlemen who sit behind the Government- I will on this occasion say with mixed enthusiasm- are endeavouring to do. Even though today the Government may command the numbers- that blessed estate in politics- whether or not it will command them in the future is another consideration. It may build a precedent today and build another precedent upon that. The Government is disposed towards creating law. If the law of this country is to deteriorate into such a state that the entire constitutional structure can be broken down- chiselled here, modified here- by a mere wilful Act of Parliament, then the people of Australia will find themselves in a very sorry, desperate state of affairs. 
There are 2 sections of the Constitution which are being manifestly disturbed by the introduction of this legislation. The first is section 122 which, admittedly, makes provision for the Parliament to admit to the Parliament on such terms and conditions as it sees fit representatives of other States and Territories. But it was never the intendment of those at the convention debates which founded this country that representatives of Territories which had not been raised to the status of States be brought into this Parliament. As I say, Deakin and all those who sat with him rejected the move made by Braddon to try to control that affair. The second section of the Constitution which is being disturbed is section 24. Section 24 states that the number of members of the House of Representatives shall be, 'as nearly as practicable'- that is the language that is used- twice the number of the senators. The mere introduction of a Representation Bill to amend the Representation Act cannot be allowed to be accepted as something to tranquilise the community into a state of agreement and to say: 'Our fears are unfounded'. The men who wrote the Constitution were men of reason, men of justice. I wonder whether that is the case today. The Government proposes that there should be 64 senators, and that all of those senators should have full voting powers. The vote of one senator from the Northern Territory will have precisely the same voting strength as that of the distinguished and gallant senator from New South Wales,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. (Government supporters interjecting)- 
I am dealing with great principles; I am not dealing with the latest display of plots in the parliamentary Labor Party. I say to the Parliament and, through this Parliament, I hope to the people outside that this is not some casual program which has been embarked upon. This is a program, a campaign, which has been sustained and which is now coming near to fulfilment, to ensure that the Senate as a place in the Australian structure is, if not destroyed, considerably diminished. 
In the conduct of all human affairs there are 2 constant companions- history and reason- and right reason determines what history writes. The reason that is being displayed today is not right reason. It is the attitude and conviction of men and women who look upon the Senate as a chamber of frustration and who misunderstand its historic role and its purpose. They are the people who today are seeking to secure for themselves a rather shabby place in the history of this nation. 
-This motion deals with what is compendiously described as the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament and it involves a relationship to the establishment of a registry of what may be described in the same genre of language as what members own. It would be to state the obvious to say that it involves an area of very great contention. Regrettably the view is held outside the Parliament that those who come to Parliament come with no other motive than material profit. I speak for myself, and I hope that I speak for the members of all parties, when I say on the basis of nearly 20 years experience in this Parliament that I have apprehended no visible sign of that motive whatsoever. In point of fact, to put it in vulgar, homely language, ex-members of Parliament do not cut up well for probate. This resolution and the resolution which precedes it on the notice paper relate to the establishment of a registry of pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. At first blush that may seem to be quite unexceptionable. The simple truth of the matter is that it involves an area of political reflection and contemplation which should not be looked upon casually at all. 
I want to make my own attitude quite clear. I speak among friends, even though I speak among political antagonists. For myself I have no material accomplishment in this world of any great sense at all. I am not filled with shame on that whatsoever. I am not greatly interested in material rewards. So I would seek without any sense of shame to put on the registry of this Parliament my material, my pecuniary interest. I have a house. I have a car. I have a set of chambers in the Inns of Court in Brisbane. I have a library. I have a small overdraft. I have 13 cats. I have a tolerant bank manager. I have a small Pekingese dog which is nearly 12 years of age and which I love very dearly. 
It is a she and is called Ming Ming.  Sir Robert  Menzies thought it was named after him until I pointed out there was a Ming dynasty before his. I have a strong sense of Irish optimism which, God willing, I will command until the end of my days. That is the record I have. 
If any person were to ask me what was the greatest thing that I command, I would say the fact that I hold a seat in the House of Representatives in Canberra where I can speak without fear or favour and where my arguments can be treated with contempt, ignore or, occasionally, with acceptance. That to me- materially speaking, even though it is a difficult notion to understandis the thing that I regard with the greatest sense of pride. I should explain that I am a trustee for some friends and for my family- I think it is five hundred or six hundred shares in Kathleen Investments. That is the lot. I do not think, to the best of my recollection, there is anything else at all. What is involved when members of Parliament are asked to disclose their pecuniary interests? It predicates, I suggest, that members of Parliament are in some way essentially different from the main stream of society. With very great respect to my friends on both sides of the House who may take a view mildly different from mine, that is simply not true. If we reach, in the Anglo-Saxon tradition, the stage where members of Parliament are treated with such contempt that they seek to enter Parliament for no other reason than to serve themselves, Parliament has had its day. 
I am reminded, not merely when I am down in the dumps but when I seek to be exhilarated, of one whose works I turn to constantly- Edmund Burke. He says it is a very shallow notion that people seek to serve in Parliament for no other motive than parliamentary perk and pension. In the nearly 20 years that I have been here I have seen a great number of people on both sides of politics who have sought to give of their intellectual, nervous and physical efforts and resources what they understood to be in the interests of the Parliament. Now, to come to our muttons, as it were. These 2 motions seek to set up a registry. The first one seeks to approve of the registry that members of Parliament should declare what their pecuniary interests are. I want to invite my friends on both sides of the House to contemplate what is meant by a pecuniary interest. Honourable members should not think this is a matter of shallow academic contemplation, because it is not. The truth of the matter is that the Strauss Committee in the United Kingdom in 1969-1 shall refer to the Committee 's report in a few moments- took the view that the definition of a pecuniary interest was one which was utterly elusive. If honourable members say that the Committee's report was that it was elusive, it should be ignored and they should take the more pragmatic attitude. The United States of America, I think in the same year, set up registers both for members and candidates for both Houses of the Congress. They have run into nothing else but trouble ever since. 
The point I want to put to the Parliament is a very short one. If we have people disposed towards dishonour, no collection of registries will contain them. If we have a person who comes in on either side of the Parliament and says: 'I am going to take the opportunity of my place in this Parliament to garner to myself the material accomplishments that I may see before me', no set of registries will serve as a halter to that form of enterprise. This is a matter of very great antiquity to those who walk in the Anglo-Saxon tradition of parliamentary association. It was in 1811 that  Mr Speaker  Abbott in the House of Commons laid down that no person who had a pecuniary interest should vote upon any matter and any person who had a pecuniary interest should declare it to the House in which he speaks.  Mr Speaker  Cope, it is 100-odd years since this took place. That ruling of  Mr Speaker  Abbott has not been greatly disturbed at all. It has been reflected upon. It has been added to. It has never been disturbed. 
In 1969 the mother of Parliament, the House of Commons, set up a committee to look at this very precise question. It was not a committee composed of what one might describe, with great respect, as parliamentary acolytes. It was composed of members of the House of Commons with very considerable parliamentary experience. For example it was presided over by  Mr Strauss  himself. Those who have known him would hesitate to describe him as being a man of milk and water political conviction. He held tenaciously to the views that he expounded on behalf of his Party. Other members who served on the Committee- a few of them I have had the very great privilege of having known- were Patrick Gordon Walker,  Sir Derek  WalkerSmith and  Sir John  Vaughan-Morgan. These were people who had a feel for parliament, an instinct for parliament. They concluded that the notion of a registry would not meet the outstanding concern of members of the public that there was something awry with parliament. Their report- if I may describe it as being the Strauss report- is a very closely reasoned report. If I may, without impertinence, I would commend it to all members of Parliament before we adopt a definitive attitude to this. It is a very closely reasoned report. 
Five years later, in May of this year, the House of Commons turned to the Strauss Committee's report in one way or another and voted for the establishment of a registry. Immediately after having done that- predictably, I suppose one might say- members of the House of Commons voted for the establishment of a select committee to find out how the registry should operate. What I seek to do on behalf of the Opposition is to invite the House in its corporate sense to agree to the proposition that we should have first of all in Australia a Strauss style committee. There are too many people on the Government side of the Parliament who know my weaknesses. I do not seek to disguise them. I do not seek to explain them. But I do have a great feeling for Parliament as an institution. What I have the deepest anxiety for is to see explained in this country the position of members of Parliament and the fact that those who come to Parliament have no intemperate anxiety to profit in material sense, that they come to Parliament with a gentle sense of pride and with a firm sense of determination to try to profit the country. Therefore, in respect of this motion, I move: 
In paragraph 1, omit 'on the arrangements to be made', substitute 'whether arrangements should be made'. 
I invite my friends and I invite the House to acknowledge what this amendment involves. There will be a committee of inquiry. The maximum opportunity will be given to all members of Parliament and to all members of the public to put before that committee their views. There will be an opportunity also to give to the Parliament and to the country the fact that those who sit here do not take the narrow, pinched, constrained, impoverished view that Parliament is composed of rogues. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. I ask the honourable gentleman: Poes he hold the belief that Ministers in his Government are bound by the rule of law and obliged to respect the processes of the law? If the honourable gentleman holds that belief, what explanation is forthcoming to explain why a person, namely Georgi Ermolenko, was taken out of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Western Australia when habeas corpus proceedings were before that Court, and Ministers knew it? 

 -Mr Speaker, this Bill is an unexceptional Bill in political terms and the Opposition does not oppose it. It is in essence a machinery Bill and it makes provision for a number of matters to which I will refer, albeit in a very brief fashion. The Bill is a clear illustration of the use of probably the most emancipated power in the Australian Constitution, and that is the grants power under section 96 of the Constitution. The Bill is a reminder to us all, I think, of the potential use of that power, that it can be used in such a fashion to reach out and to say in most explicit terms: 'Here is money which is made available and it shall be spent in this specified fashion. ' 
Before I turn to the minor area of political difficulty which I see in the Bill I would refer to the special features which the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  instanced in his second reading speech. The Minister referred to grants to various universities for the teaching of handicapped children, and this is welcomed by us all. We are as yet a distance from doing all of those things that we should do with respect to helping those children who have difficulties thrust upon them by dint of physical handicap. There is another provision relating to the establishment of research faculties in universities and teaching institutions, and that deals with the research in community practice associated with community health centres. I must confess that in my simplicity I do not quite know what that means, and I would welcome some elucidation from the Minister. Community practice: Is it that the establishment of community health centres is going to create new problems associated with medicine? I just do not know, but I would be grateful if the Minister or someone on his behalf would give the House the benefit of what they understand as being involved in community practice. 
The second principal provision is for the establishment at the University of Newcastle of a new medical school. The third principal provision relates to the acquisition of a new university site at Campbelltown in New South Wales. As my friend the Minister for Education has come in I will recapitulate my remarks on one of the provisions in the Bill. Precisely what is meant by community practice? It is, I say with complete frankness, a term that I do not quite understand. 
The 2 other machinery provisions relate to the repeal of a grant which had been earmarked for Monash University and the establishment of a school of management of education within the University of New South Wales. The last provision is welcome indeed, because this country has a clear need for a greater command of management skills than we have at the moment. Contemporary experience would illustrate that simple proposition in the fact that giant corporations, seemingly having at their command immense experience in management, can topple. One is tempted to seek to offer excuses which do not in fact convince one as to why those corporations should topple. So I say to the Minister that this money is welcome indeed. 
Now I come to what I would with charity describe as a minor area of political difficulty in the Bill. That is the use by the Minister in his second reading speech of this language: 'When the Australian Government assumed full financial responsibility for tertiary education . . .' That statement at first blush would convey to the uninformed that the Commonwealth had taken over completely the role, the financial responsibility, exercised by the States with respect to tertiary education. But it cannot be viewed just in that light. The truth remains that when the Commonwealth assumed full financial responsibility in this field the tax reimbursements made available to the States were substantially reduced. When one looks at the nature of the reductions one comes to the realisation that there is indeed something in the nature of prestidigitation by the Government in dealing with this matter, and I want to illustrate that to the Minister. Following the Premiers Conference and Loan Council Meeting in this chamber on 29 June 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  issued a Press statement. He said: 
The States have accepted the Australian Government's offer to take full financial responsibility for financing tertiary education from 1 January 1974. It has been agreed that amounts by which additional expenditure by the Australian Government relieve State governments of expenditure they would otherwise have incurred should be deducted - 
I am indebted to the honourable gentleman for having made that clear because, with very great respect, that view is not shared in the Australian community. The view is widespread that this is a further example of what one may describe as generosity on the part of the central government- on the part of the Commonwealth Government. It is an argument, with respect, with which I disagree, and I want to explain to the Minister and to the House my apprehension of it. In the year 1974-75 the financial assistance grants to the States are reduced because of the Commonwealth's assumptions in this field of tertiary education. Those grants are reduced by$229.7m. 
-This is the point on which I want my friend to expatiate, because it is not quite so simple as he puts it. On the loan side, on the capital side, the loss to Loan Council funds for the States in this year totals $65.4m, a total of $295. lm. The point I want to make can be illustrated in this fashion. It has been claimed that the expenditure on universities and colleges of advanced education will rise from last year in this year by $294m, yet the simple truth of the matter is that $294m on the one hand has been taken due to the fact that the grants to the States and loan funds have been reduced by $295. lm. I will come to the other point about the Minister's argument that the $229m on current account and the $65m on loan account are used in another field. Conceding that it may be used in another field, what I am putting to the honourable gentleman is that it is not a proper presentation of the case to say that the Commonwealth has taken all responsibility in the field of tertiary education ergo the Commonwealth is entitled to full credit in the field  &lt;*,i  education. The honourable gentleman may say that this is a rather captious sort of criticism to make, but it is not at all. 
Yes. 
-That is perfectly true, but the Government is not entitled to take the credit in the simple fashion in which it seeks to take the credit. 
-I am indebted to the honourable gentleman for this display of Government modesty because regrettably it is not a characteristic shared by some of his colleagues. Indeed, during the course of recent discussions on economic matters it has been contended with a sense of exuberance: 'We have spent so much more upon education, so much more upon universities'. What I am pointing out to the honourable gentleman is that in this particular field, as far as universities are concerned, the Commonwealth has been able to assume full responsibility for tertiary education in Australia because the States pro tanto have had their reimbursement funds reduced. 
-At least the honourable gentleman and I have found ourselves in some area of agreement I hope that the House and people in the country will well understand the point. Having said that by way of, I hope, not half-hearted approval of the Bui but merely pointing out to the honourable gentleman in, I trust, a tolerably courteous fashion that this is the way the Opposition sees it, I say to him that we welcome the Bill. 
Before I sit down there is one other matter to which I would request the Minister to give consideration. I understand that there is an indexation scheme applying to increased costs in university buildings. My understanding further is that there will be approximately a 12-month gap before the indexation machinery takes effect. I know of one university which is being embarrassed by this machinery. I wonder whether the position could be looked at to see whether the machinery could be improved. It is not a matter of secrecy or confidentiality; it happens to be the new Griffith University in my own electorate. It is my understanding that the machinery represents something of a problem. It may involve a minor legislative alteration; I do not know. But I would welcome the Minister examining the position. 
-The House resumes the debate on the Bill to amend the Australian Universities Commission Act. The amending Bill was introduced by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in a very short speech; his speech occupied but 5 minutes. On a casual glance, that brief speech might indicate that we are dealing with a matter of no great importance. In the opinion of the Opposition this is not so. We are dealing with a Bill which seeks to introduce important amendments to the Australian Universities Commission Act. The speech made by the Minister a week or so ago would not be regarded as containing any substantial element of controversy. It was a 5-minute speech that would not rouse anyone from a slumber induced by a quiet Sunday lunch washed down by a pint of beer. But the Bill is one of importance. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and seeks to give it a speedy passage. But, by the same token, the Opposition takes this occasion to raise with the Minister and the Government certain activities as far as tertiary education is concerned in Australia. 
I turn to what the Bill seeks to do in principle. The Bill seeks to make provision for the appointment of a Deputy Chairman of the Universities Commission. Those of us who have been familiar- some members of course, with a greater degree of intensity than others- with the work of Professor Karmel will realise that it is high time that he received some extra assistance. The sustained vigour, enterprise and initiative shown by him point to a record of distinction. Even though people may not always agree with some of the conclusions reached by Professor Karmel, the fact remains that he has served this country in a very distinguished fashion. That is a small amendment and one which the Opposition in no way opposes. 
The second provision of the Bill seeks to amend the definition of a university. It might be of some assistance to the House, in considering the case, if I were to trace the origin of this matter. The 1959 Act establishing the Australian Universities Commission defines the form of assistance that can be given. Section 4 of the Act of 1959 provides: 
The Minister may, by instrument under his hand, direct that this Act shall apply in relation to an institution or proposed institution in Australia specified in the instrument, being an institution or proposed institution for the provision of higher education . . . 
That provision remained in the Act and was not disturbed until 1971, when the section was amended to include the following sub-section: 
The reference in the last preceding sub-section to higher education shall be read as not including a reference to education that is advanced education for the purposes of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education Act 197 1. 
As I said before the Minister came into the House, we do not oppose the provisions; they are not matters of controversy. But I want to refer particularly to what the Minister proposes by way of the definition of a university. Under this amending Bill, section 4 of the provision of 1959 and the subsequent provision of 1971 disappear. The new provision which is placed in its stead states: 
The Minister may, by writing under his hand, direct that this Act shall apply to an institution or proposed institution that he is satisfied is to be constituted as a university within Australia by a law of Australia, a State or an internal Territory. 
I come immediately to the point of mild anxiety here. I should like to know from my honourable friend why the words 'that he is satisfied' are used? I suggest to my honourable friend that surely this should be a matter of objective criteria. Something should be a university and determined so by objective criteria, and it should not be exposed to subjective criteria. I am not taking some mean point of punctilio with this. I believe that the House is entitled to an explanation as to why we now depart from something which we have looked at since 1959 and said: 'There is a university within the accepted understanding of that term'. Now we are, in a measure, retreating to say: 'We give the Minister power to determine what in fact is a university.' The proposal- this was referred to by my friend in his second reading speech- to identify a university as a university commands my wholehearted approval and, I am sure, the approval of all honourable gentleman in the Opposition. 
I take this opportunity to say to my honourable friend that one of the concerns regarding tertiary education and activity today is the tendency by some people to regard numbers in universities as being a reflection of competence and of excellence. For my part, I have watched with a measure of disquiet the diminution in the vocational attitude towards tertiary education. Regrettably, many of us have been inclined to the view that universities have been nothing more than degree factories. I know my honourable friend's attitude to this. He certainly would not be one who would seek in any way to diminish the importance of people coming out of a university with an attitude and a philosophy towards life. If people come out of a university and regard what they have as a means whereby they can secure some material pleasure and nothing else out of life, it seems to me that we must rethink our attitude towards university education. It is not dewy-eyed sentiment on my part at all when I say that what is left of Western civilisation will not be sustained and revived by what may be described as a vagrant intellectualism. We must get a sense of vocation back into our universities, so that people come out with a commitment certainly to advance themselves and also to advance the community in its corporate state in battling with the problems that beset the community and the world at large. 
The other aspect I draw to my friend's attention regarding tertiary activity is that, quite apart from the disposition to diminish or discount the vocational aspect of tertiary education, there is allied to that something of a temptation to break up the professional standing of people. This is to be seen in a variety of ways, not the least by the proliferation of specialised activities within professions. I am indebted to a most thoughtful paper given by  Sir Benjamin  Rank this year in the Ernest Joske Memorial Oration. Ernest Joske was the father of  Mr Justice  Joske who sat in this House with many of us for a number of years. In that oration titled 'The Professional Man and his Institutions '  Sir Ben  amin had this to say: 
Come what may, despite the fragmentation of knowledge and the consequent trend to spawn separate splinter groups, the parent organisations must maintain some comprehensive intellectual harmony in their institutions. In matters technical and scientific, they can and should be most liberal in fostering group activities at the highest scientific level, but there it must cease. They must resist at all costs the tendency for specialist groups to be separate and self-contained in all matters professional and ethical. Unfortunately it does not end there, for they soon become involved in matters policital. Indeed, it is a sad fact that some have been created for that very reason. 
Far be it from me to seek to inflict reading on the Minister for Education, but I think he would be stimulated by the views offered by  Sir Benjamin  Rank in the most thoughtful paper which he presented by way of a memorial oration this year. 
The next matter that I should like to refer to the honourable gentleman is this: We have an interim report dealing with the open university. I speak on this matter with some tender feelings myself, having been in a very real sense a product of an open university. I am delighted to find that in some universities today there is a readiness by university authority to allow people, after they finish secondary schooling, to go out into the world for 12 months or 2 years and then to enter the university. I am delighted and I wish this experiment well. I shall watch it with considerable interest. I take the view that many people go to universities today who in a very real sense are not fitted. I do not say this offensively or patronisingly, but people who have had 12 months or 2 years experience in the outside world have, I think, a more mature approach to university life. I think they value the resources provided by the Government, by the taxpayer, and I think they have an entirely different approach. There are people who are late finishers. There are people who in their early formative years, at 18 or 19 years of age, just do not seem able to grasp what it is all about. Yet after a period of time they show a significant and percussive sense of originality and they are people who distinguish themselves academically. I assure my friend that I will watch this development with considerable interest indeed. 
The last matter to which I would refer is expressed in the language of my friend in his second reading speech when he referred to what is the principal outstanding difference between us today; that is the assumption of full responsibility by the Commonwealth for university or tertiary education. I will not persist with projecting the argument to the honourable gentlemen this afternoon. I shall await a more propitious moment when I may possibly be able to persuade him to my view of things, but that for another day. Persistence will have its own reward, I assure the honourable gentleman. The fact remains today that all universities in Australia are dependent upon this place. What must be resisted is the temptation for a government of any kidney to regard universities as being merely another department of State, another government department, that is to be put under the suzerainty of government control. It is of the very nature of governments to regard all of their actions as having the closest possible affinity with virtue. Regrettably it is of the very nature of Ministers of the Crown- or at least most Ministers of the Crown- to regard that their words are drawn from an immense reservoir of wisdom and destined for immortality. The temptation is there, and it is overwhelming, to reach out and to want to control. 
I know my friend 's view on this, if I may say again without being patronising. It is a very robust and old-fashioned view regarding the independence of universities, and I hope he will long be spared to maintain that view, be it on the Government side of this chamber or in the near future on the Opposition side. Hope does spring eternal. This was referred to quite recently by a distinguished Australian university authority, the Vice-Chancellor of the Melbourne University, Professor David Derhan. He criticised the grants scheme as such. One might get the wrong impression from reading what the Professor had to say. My apprehension is that his concern is simply that for the first time, as he puts it, the universities have one paymaster and little or no capacity to make decisions about their own revenue. That is an Australian professor's view. It has been echoed by a number of his colleagues who have the responsibility of administering universities in various places in Australia. It was quite graphically described in the report of the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education published in April of last year. Speaking of the United States of America, the members of the Committee said this: 
External authorities are exercising more and more authority over higher education, and institutional independence has been declining. The greatest shift of power in recent years has taken place not inside the campus, but in the transfer of authority from the campus to outside agencies. 
The point I make is simply this: It is one thing for us to be conscious of the danger that resides in complete government expenditure on universities, for universities to be dependent in their entirety upon government enterprise and government hand-outs. To recognise that is welcome indeed but what would be more welcome would be our ensuring that it does not lead in any shape or form towards government seeking to reach out to control the activities of those who work within universities. 
-As a gentle display of curiosity on my part, I would be glad if the Minister could explain to me why he dropped the term 'Australian' from the title 'Australian Universities Commission'. The Minister has spoken of Government practice. The practice of the Government in the last 20 months or so has been to substitute the word 'Australian' for the word 'Commonwealth'. I think it has done so on very questionable grounds. If a writ were to be served on the Government would it not be served on the Commonwealth of Australia and not on the Australian Government? This is just simple curiosity on my part. What does the Minister mean when he says that it is the practice of the Government? 
-With reference to clause 5 1 make it clear to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that I support him completely regarding an attempt by a 'university' to seek to put pressure upon him, upon the Government or upon the Universities Commission for support when it does not meet the requirements of a university. There is no ambiguity about that. I support the Minister completely but I put it to him that at some time in the future when he is not the Minister- we seek immortality in our own curious way but my imperfections press upon me very much- some other Minister if he is satisfied has only to give a certificate that he is satisfied and the provisions of this Act would have force with respect to a questionable university. I ask the Minister to meditate upon this overnight. I think he will then agree with me tomorrow morning. At the moment I invite him to agree that he would look at a university and ask, on objective criteria: Is this a university or not, or is it some confectioned organisation that styles itself as a university and seeks to put political pressure upon the Minister and upon members of Parliament to have access to financial assistance from the Universities Commission? I invite my friend to agree that he is defeating his purposes by putting into an Act a discretion which is available for some time in the future. As far as the honourable gentleman himself is concerned, I have not the slightest anxiety, but not all of the gentlemen who will occupy the office of Minister for Education will necessarily be driven or controlled by the same instinct. 
-The honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder)  made a boisterous speech in support of the Budget. I am sorry that he was not received with boisterous support. In fact, I think at one stage he reached the point where he was supported by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  and nobody else. One could hardly say that Government members were collapsing with excitement. The honourable member made one observation which I am bound to tell you,  Mr Speaker,  in simple candour having known you for nearly one-fifth of a century, appeals to me immensely. He said: 'I would like to throw open the doors, the portals of the Caucus meeting so you could all come in'.  Mr Speaker,  I hope you will forgive and understand my presumption but I present myself as the guest  speaker  tomorrow. 
-Whose feelings would be lacerated is open to some doubt, nevertheless it would be an interesting exchange. I turn immediately to my principal adversary, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I welcome him back to Australia. I am delighted that he arrived back in one piece. I pressed upon him before he left the perils of his journey bearing in mind such distinguished people as Milton Obote and Kwame Nkrumah. It was a matter of some vexation to me that his name would be added to that list. 
No subtlety has ever escaped the honourable member for Robertson but he is a conspicuous exception as far as the Government benches are concerned. Anyhow, the Prime Minister did arrive back. I am bound to say that I congratulate him upon a massive sense of urbanity. 
Oh, here is Australia's own Oxford graduate. What would happen if I were to seek to correct the Minister's solecisms? He is going to say so-lecisms. He has gone that close to flying solo it does not matter. Urbane-ity or urbanity wherever my friend wants to put the emphasis on the consonontal pronunciation. I put the adenoids to one side. I am delighted that the Prime Minister is back. I do congratulate him. He arrived back. We have 160,000 unemployed. 
I am indebted to the right honourable member for Higgins for saying that it is more than that, but my right honourable friend knows that I err constantly on the side of conservatism. The Prime Minister arrived back at a time when we have 170,000 people out of work, seasonally adjusted or any other way adjusted. We have inflation raging at 20 per cent. We have hundreds of thousands of life insurance holders seeing their investment dwindle day by day, month by month. We have industries galore shutting down. 
I beg your pardon. If you say that in the textile industry only 2 factories are shutting down then I suggest you tell that to the Tasmanians. 
I am indebted to you for your correction. 
Well, industry after industry. 
Since when has the honourable member for Adelaide been concerned with the truth? 

 -Obviously, Mr Speaker, he had it very much in contemplation. We have thousands of people being flung out of work- the whole edifice of disaster. What does the Prime Minister say? He says: 'All is well '. I must hand it to him. He would put out of business a bishop preaching a sermon wearing a clerical collar, a pair of gaiters and nothing else. 
I am delighted to know that the honourable gentleman at least has some ecclesiastical knowledge. I am sorry I cannot extend the compliment. There is an extraordinary state of affairs. Is this the Labor Party's attitude towards contemporary Australia- 170,000 or 180,000 people out of work? Let me remind honourable members opposite of the heroic words of their leader when he sat on this side of the House back in 1972. It is not as though I am foraging back into ancient history. This was in 1972. This was before, as a result of some aberration on the part of the Australian people, he became the Prime Minister. Listen to this and then go home and meditate. He said: 
There is the enduring task of reducing inflation. My Party's policies are totally committed to full employment and reducing inflation; 
This was said in February 1972. He said: 'My Party's policies are totally committed towards reducing inflation and committed to full employment' Is the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  or any other honourable gentleman who may be minded to interrupt going to say to those who today find themselves out of work, seasonally adjusted, that this is a splendid vindication of the declaration the Prime Minister gave in February 1972? The Prime Minister, just to illustrate what splendid consistency he has, came to the Premiers Conference in June of this year and made another statement. Listen to the dulcet tones. The language is superb. He said: 
In order to help break inflationary expectations, we must now slow the rate of increase in Government spending. Some phasing down or deferment of some expenditure plans must occur. 
Is there any ambiguity about that? No person at all with 2 wits to rub together- by joves, it would fine down a few honourable members oppositewould have any doubt about that. He said that Government expenditure was to decrease. What is the sorry record? Overall there is to be a total increase in Government expenditure of 32.4 per cent. 
-The honourable member for Robertson approves of it. I ask the honourable gentleman, in terms of simple logic, how does he settle the Prime Minister's declaration to the Premiers Conference that there must be a reduction in Government expenditure with a Government increase in expenditure of 32.4 per cent? You can run through one department after the other in order to see where the increase has taken place. It was left to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and, if I may say so with respect, to a conspicuously thoughtful speech made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  a week or so ago to point to the real earnest of the Government's intention. It is to be found in one phrase of the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Treasurer talked about the fact that the private sector is now enjoying subdued conditions. 'Enjoying' may be a rather ornate description of it, but there are subdued conditions as far as the private sector is concerned. The honourable gentleman then went on to say: 'This then is the opportune time to transfer emphasis to the public sector. ' 
I only hope that the people of Australia are under no doubt whatsoever as to what is meant by that declaration. Seventy-five per cent of the Australian wage and salary earners owe their livelihood to the private sector. The enjoyment, the integrity and the existence of 75 per cent of families in this country are to be found in the private sector. Here it is, a plain declaration of war by the Government upon the private sector. It says: 'Let us disturb the private sector. Let us put more emphasis upon the public sector'. The simple truth of life is that nothing in this world can be had for nothing save measles. When people talk about seeking to bring back stability to our economy, is this the sort of nonsense that will encourage them? Are the 170,000 or 180,000 people out of work today, in a virtual depression state, going to be encouraged and roused by the fact that the Government has said: 'We want to extinguish further the activity of the private sector'? To use the phrase coined by my friend, the honourable member for Lilley: 'You will be mighty cool in Clyde Cameron's pool'. Great stuff, is it not? But I fear that we all make a mistake in attributing to the gentlemen who line, decorate, occupy the front bench of this Parliament - 
-They are probably out, if not speculating on the future, hoping for the best. A few of them have wandered into the chamber, albeit by accident. I do not want to resort to any acerbity of language at all to describe them because it upsets me. I reproach myself for the absence of charity in having described their activities as the activities of bunglers because that is not true. The simple truth of the matter is that what this Government has determined upon is not merely to create in Australia a state of bungle by accident; it has set about creating a state of economic crisis by purpose. Let no person be under any misapprehension about this. I wish to say something about the Minister for Overseas 
Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I regret, and I apologise for it, attacking him in his absence. 
Yes, I do. Never in my time of nearly 20 years in this Parliament have I attacked any person unless I have given him some notice of it. 
Up until today. I make an exception. I have in my hand a book entitled The Quiet Revolution' written by James Ford Cairns, the Minister for Overseas Trade. It should be made compulsory reading for the people of this country. I take at random, believe it or not, a couple of excerpts from my friends book. Listen to this. 
Believe it or not, I am inclined to the view that the honourable member for Diamond Valley is an unconscious victim of what is going on. 
-No. I will go to page 133 for openers. It states: 
In a very significant sense Labor cannot gain power at all simply by winning an election. 
The honourable gentleman argues, in advance of that proposition, this: 
Change is slow and the revolution is quiet. Progress will have to be worked hard for- 
I thought the language there was appalling, but put that to one side. It goes on:  and within the limits that today's realities provide. 
-Split infinitives do not matter at all. What the Minister for Overseas Trade has determined upon is to seek to change the entire system in Australia. Do honourable members know what the central thesis of that book is? It is that you must destroy the existing free enterprise system in Australia. The Treasurer on the one hand made the declaration that we must, in a state of subdued conditions, transfer emphasis from the private to the public sector. Whether the Treasurer was conscious of the thesis propounded by the Minister for Overseas Trade I cannot vouch for, but there can be no doubting whatsoever what the Minister for Overseas Trade has in mind. By no means is he alone. 
-Listen to the 'hear hear' from the honourable member for Diamond Valley. Let us put on our next election poster that he agrees with it. The Federal  President  of the honourable gentleman's Party,  Mr Hawke-  at least I am on ringing terms with him- said this: 
This capitalist system, this free enterprise, private ownership, profit maximisation system, is not my system, it is not the system of the trade union movement, it's not the system of the Labor Party. 
I am delighted to find that the flute obbligato- the honourable member for Robertson- agrees with that proposition also. This is the declaration to destroy the system- to seek to destroy it by wrecking it. 
I hope the two of you will get together and try to sort it out because the Minister for Overseas Trade, whom I understand you vote for with a consistency to be admired, has put it plainly on the line that the system must be changed. Instead of declaring to the Australian people that they propose to destroy the system they have gone about it. This book is the 'Mein Kampf ' of Fabius Cunctator- the Minister for Overseas Trade- who seeks to destroy Hannibal, the great emperor. We are faced with that simple realisation. I hope that the House will come to a corporate understanding that whatever may have been done in this Budget, it is a Budget which has been subjected to the final scrutiny of Caucus, an act probably unrivalled in the history of the Anglo Saxon world. The Government has introduced a Budget and a bunch of self-elected, self-appointed committees has rambled around having a look to see where they can fix things up. I say to the Parliament, and I hope to the Australian people, that this Budget is a design, marked by high purpose, to destroy this country. But the people of this country have sufficient command of enterprise, of wit and of courage and if they can be given the opportunity they will sweep the Government to where it deserves to go- to oblivion. 
I begin on a note of regret, that is, that the language I was obliged to use was uncertain. I have to speak about the indecisiveness of the Government's decision with respect to the taxation deduction on education. When, with the first flourish of the pen, I was obliged to put together the matter of public importance the decision of the Labor Caucus was not known to me. Now the agony of the Caucus conflict is over and it only remains for those honourable members in seats such as Diamond Valley, La Trobe, Phillip and Casey to stand in contemplation of the political agony which lies ahead of them. Beyond that, it also rests with thousands of parents of families throughout Australia to face up to the financial agony which the Government's decision represents. That decision,  Mr Speaker,  as you well know, is to reduce from $400 to $150 the amount of money which may be claimed by parents for taxation purposes. 
It is a matter of infinite pity that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  returned to Australia from his grand tour he seemed to have succumbed and become a victim to what can only be described as intense Bonapartism because, when it was brought to his ears that there were rumblings of discontent throughout the country regarding the Government's decision on taxation with respect to education matters and, beyond that, when it was brought to his attention that his own Party was upset, what was his reaction?  His  reaction to members of his own Party was: Who do they think they are? 
He said something perilously close to that. I have no doubt that the honourable member for Hunter would have been a conspicuous exception, because we know what he is. The Prime Minister knows perfectly well that the information that he sought to give to the Australian people on this matter on his return was not factual. Beyond that, he knows perfectly well that the Government's decision on this matter is causing very great distress to thousands of Australian families. To describe this decision as being one which merely hits people of opulence, of power and of position is to take a quite bizarre regard for the facts. I say to the honourable gentleman with the utmost cordiality that it is about high time that he stopped drinking French champagne and tasted Australian beer. 
The truth of the matter is that this decision will affect in a grievous fashion families which do not deserve to be affected. The truth of the matter is that the Economic and Education Committees of the Caucus are infinitely closer to public reality than is the Government itself. The Government is out of touch. Those 2 committees to which I have referred are in touch. I excuse myself from any excursion into the matter of offering a judgment as to the curious fashion in which the Labor Parliamentary Party works. For one who has a great respect for Parliament as an institution I content myself with saying that I find it curious in the extreme that governments can be challenged by a body outside in this fashion. In this case there was considerable merit in the move which was made by the Labor Party Caucus. The Prime Minister has now found certainly that he has the numbers but regrettably he has not the virtue of argument. 
I say to the honourable member for Prospect that if Diogenes ever came by him he would give the honourable member a wide berth. The Prime Minister said that this reduction will affect only people with an income of over $10,000 a year. I describe that as a gross falsity. I invite my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to turn to the 1967-68 report of the Commissioner of Taxation. I confess they are the latest figures available to me. I am indebted to my friend - 
He is beyond hope, beyond redemption and beyond reason; all three of them. I will be indebted if the Treasurer can rescue the Prime Minister from this charge. I refer to the report of the Taxation Commissioner for 1967-68 where he states that of the 124,000 people in Australia who claimed the maximum deduction 47 per cent had incomes of less than $6,000 a year and only - 
Why do you not take a valium and give us all a break?  Dr Klugman-  Why do not you - 
-Only 27 per cent of that number had incomes of more than $10,000 a year. I want to read to the House an excerpt from a letter which is typical of literally hundreds of letters that have come into my hands. This is a copy of a letter addressed to my friend the Treasurer. It was written by the  president  of a parents ' association. Not for any sinister reasons, I leave the author of the letter anonymous. It states in part: 
It seems that those responsible for making this decision are of the opinion that all parents of children attending nonGovernment schools can be regarded as affluent. This is certainly not the case in this school, or in any other independent school we know. Many parents are making great sacrifices to send their children to the school of their choice, and in so doing are making a considerable contribution to the total cost of Australian education. Already in this school there have been withdrawals as a direct result of the Budget proposal. We are concerned that as a direct result this school will become exclusive on the grounds of parents ' income. 
That is a fair statement of the position. I invite my friend the Treasurer to accept that that is the case. But even if one takes the Prime Minister's argument that the proposal affects only those with incomes of more than $ 1 0,000 a year, surely governments are elected for the purpose of governing for the entire country and not for sections of the country. If a valid case is to be made out with respect to the entire community why not respond to it? But in this instance the Government has said: 'No, we will have no part of it'. There is one other aspect of this melancholy business to which I would refer, and it is this: The Prime Minister, during the election campaign, said that taxation would not be increased. He made that plain declaration at Castlemaine in Victoria. The meeting at which he said that was covered by two of the most experienced journalists in the parliamentary press gallery,  Mr Paul  Kelly and  Mr Mike  Steketee. I am prepared to concede that one journalist may make a minor error of judgment, but 2 journalists cannot join together at a public meeting to misrepresent the Prime Minister of the nation. This is what the two of them reported the Prime Minister as having said at this meeting during the election campaign: 
I see no reason why taxes, direct or indirect, need to be increased in order to pay for any of our continuing commitments. 
I put it to the Treasurer, with all the candour and friendship of 20 years, that this proposal is in effect a tax increase, because for the person who formerly would have been eligible to claim a deduction of $400 the decrease, pro tanto represents an increase in taxation. I do not think that the honourable gentleman can reasonably deny that. Why is it that there is repudiation in this case? If the Government had been brought to the conclusion that the deduction system as such was wrong and had wanted to turn to some other system that it considered more efficacious at least there would have been an argument for the country to consider and for this Parliament to consider. But as things stand at the moment I am inviting the Government to recognise that there have been 2 savage breaches with respect to the Australian people. The first breach is represented in the fact that this proposal will bring a needless injustice to scores of thousands of Australian people; secondly that it will bring injustice to people in that the proposal represents an increase in taxation. 
The last question I would ask the Treasurer is this: Does he seriously consider that one can today keep a youngster at a high school- take a State high school-for $150 a year? Does the honourable gentleman really think that it is possible to look after a handicapped kiddy for $ 1 50 a year? 
I am interested at least to get the ribaldry of response from the honourable member for Prospect It is about the only time that he gets close to resembling a gargoyle. 
-Indeed! Well, I come now to isolated children, and I have seen thousands of them. Many parents of isolated children are now in the position where an allowance of $150 simply will not enable them to keep a child at a high school. I could, give thousands of illustrations; I take one. The little town of Gunpowder is 50 or 60 miles from Mount Isa. It has no high school and parents must send their youngsters to Mount Isa to be boarded in the Country Women's Association hostel or with friends. 
-I am dealing with the $150 deduction. The simple truth of the matter is, putting it in homely language, the amount of that deduction would not cover rations. Beyond that, I invite the House to consider the injustice which this represents to those thousands of people who are not in the position to fend for themselves. To those 26 members of the Australian Labor Party Caucus who found that quality of steel to stand up and to say what they thought, I express my admiration. I express further my regret that thenpowers of proselytisation were not greater, that they were not able to convince the Government. But the Government had made up its mind, and the only thing that will rescue the Governmenta government of repudiation; that is the only description for it- is for it to be obliged to walk through the cleansing fire of an election. If we can get an opportunity to start that fire then let us start it and get the business done with. 
I would seek to incline my attitude into as charitable a frame as I can in speaking on this Bill. The first observation I make about it is that the Bill represents the corporate attitude of the Government towards the state of the nation. This is the Government's sense of priority. With the economy tottering towards disaster it now seeks to place before the people of Australia a further burden which can only be described as one extravagant in its character and completely unjustified in its form. As to the justification, I will deal with that later on. Having said that by way of preliminary comment, the next observation I would like to make is this: If this Bill is within power, that is to say, if it is within the power of the Australian Constitution, we may as well tear up the Australian Constitution. There would be no industry in Australia which would be sheltered from the political grasp of any government. It is perfectly true that a government is entitled to go right to the perimeter of constitutional power with respect to its legislation, and I do not quarrel with that. I merely sound the warning that if this Bill is within power then the Australian Constitution has taken on a form which I venture to say was never intended by the founders of the Constitution or by those who have directed their minds to a consideration of it over the years. 
I think the House should be immensely indebted to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  for warning us of the consequences involved, if at some time in the future, taking the assumption that this legislation is passed, the Bill comes into form and is an Act, is challenged and it is found that the purported extinguishing and abolition of the common law rights, which is postulated in clauses 9 1 and 92 of the Bill, was not validly made. As my honourable and learned friend pointed out, if the entire insurance system has been collapsed and then the Act is found to be invalid, what would be the position then? How do you pick up the broken pieces? Possibly that metaphor is inapt. In that event there would be a complete void in one of the largest fields of insurance activity in this country. Do not members of the Government and do not other Government supporters regard that aspect seriously? I beg of them, not in any partisan fashion at all: Why do you not respond to the true observations made by the honourable member for Wentworth? They were not stated with partisan commitment and attitude. He implored on the first hand, why not refer the Bill to a select committee? We do not do justice by ourselves in this House. We do not resort to a joint committee of this House. We leave it to the Senate. The Senate can appoint committees galore but as far as we are concerned it is not good enough for us. I would hope that the House could get some corporate sense of resentment in this matter and do something about it. The second suggestion made by the honourable member for Wentworth, as I understood him, was to try to find the means whereby a test can be made in advance, of the legislation so that the danger of the void will be obviated. Again, that is an interesting and I think welcome suggestion made by my honourable friend. 
I turn to resort to a little more assertative language as far as this Bill is concerned. Those who have conceived this Bill propose to set up a bureaucratic edifice before which the great Parkinson himself would have prostrated his body. It proposes to establish a bureaucratic machine which defies description. It proposes to give to bureaucrats powers with which those who conducted the Spanish Inquisition would have regarded themselves as being well served if those powers had been in their command. In more contemporary times those who directed the activities of the Ogpu would have been satisfied if they had had the proposed powers in this Bill at their command. But I want to say further to the House, and not by way of levity of expression, that if this Bill goes through, becomes an Act and is put into being we will need a battalion of ombudsmen to look at the inequities, the injustices and the unfairnesses. I mention the discretions referred to by my friend the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who led for the Opposition. He referred to the discretions made available to civil servants. I do not speak disrespectfully of them. I have the most profound regard for those who serve this country. But it is not of the nature of the bureaucratic machine to resort to benevolence in the exercise of discretion. As far as the creation of this vast bureaucratic machine is concerned, once it is in being there will be no pulling back from it. 
The next observation I make to my friend the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  who is in the House and for whom I have the utmost affection is this: Why the haste? My understanding is that it is intended that this Bill should be finished in this House by tonight. It is the sort of Bill that lends itself to a Committee debate. We could spend anything up to a week debating it. If need be those of us interested in the Bill could go away, lock ourselves up in a room and have pie and peas for lunch. That would be a worthwhile exercise, but no, we have to go on bur way. The community has not had an opportunity to consider the full ramifications of this Bill. The trade union movement is already beginning to show its sense of apprehension as to the full implications of this measure. I say to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  whose presence has now brought fragrance back into the chamber, that when members of the community wake up to the full implications of this Bill I do not think they would be able to treat even him with the generosity that he suspects he deserves. 
My honourable friend from Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  referred to defects in the existing Commonwealth system. Let those defects be conceded. This Bill does not cure them. It seeks to exacerbate them and in point of fact it will add to them in a monstrous and completely unacceptable fashion. In respect of the Woodhouse Committee report that came before us, I fear that we are seeking to indulge ourselves in an Alice in Wonderland fashion these days. What do you do with any problem that confronts government? You set up a committee. You get the committee's report. Ergo, that is the end of the problem. I remain singularly unimpressed with this report. I erred very much on the side of charity when I described it as a disgrace to judicial inquiry. I will deal with one or two aspects of it.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodhouse at paragraph 32 of the report made this observation: 
We propose to keep them flexible - 
This is dealing with procedures-  and the accent will be upon informality. In this way anyone interested enough to appear will be given a full opportunity to express his or her point of view. 
I do not quarrel with that. But I do with this: 
It has been suggested that we should conduct our hearings rather as a court of law might take evidence, which would then be tested by cross-examination. 
Is His Honour serious when he says that the procedure of cross-examination no longer serves a useful purpose? The procedure of crossexamination was described by no less an authority than Wigmore as being the most perfect machine ever invented for the purpose of getting at the truth. How does one get at the truth when one gives to a committee of this nature no power for those who appear before it to be crossexamined, to test their qualifications, for all their qualifications to be revealed and for the quality of the evidence to be assessed? The Committee finished up with this observation: 
The conduct and procedure of a Committee of Inquiry must necessarily be decided by the Committee itself. 
Bravo- 
We are entirely satisfied that everybody concerned has been given a proper opportunity of expressing his or her point of view. The general approach that we have adopted differs in no important respect from that followed by other similar Committees that have carried on inquiries in Australia. 
I say: 'Tell that to the marines'; it is simply not true. 
I want to turn to one or two aspects of the Bill that I have culled out as being most important in terms of implementing the scheme. The first matter to which I want to refer is the dependence of the Committee- this is reflected in the Bill- upon the American Medical Association in respect of the percentage impairment provision. It seems to me, with very great respect to those involved in the drafting of the Bill, that they have confused impairment with disability. A person by medical assessment may have a 25 per cent impairment of the limb but he may not necessarily have a 25 per cent disability of the limb. Can I illustrate the proposition fairly quickly - 
-If I thought it would at all rescue my honourable friend from Prospect I would do so with the greatest alacrity. Therefore, even running that risk, I do so. Take the case of a clerk who sits at a desk all day. Let us assume that he breaks a leg and the doctor assesses that he has lost 20 per cent of its usefulness. I do not speak in any disrespectful way about the occupation of a clerk but as this man sits at a desk all day his broken leg may not necessarily interfere with his work. But take the case of a rigger who works on windmills and who loses 20 per cent of the effectiveness of his limb. 
With great respect, one can take into account a great variety of fields. For instance, one could take the case of a surgeon who loses 2 fingers and who as a result would be seriously disadvantaged. Take the case, if you like, of a fitter and turner who loses two or three fingers and is seriously disadvantaged because he would not be able to use instruments such as a micrometer. 
-This may be so. But I ask my honourable friend to listen to me. One can give other illustrations. Take the case of a person who loses two or three fingers. If a member of Parliament suffered this loss he would not necessarily be disadvantaged to the same extent as somebody else. 
I thought that the honourable member for Hotham dealt in a devastating fashion with the subject of minor injuries. Can Government supporters seriously suggest that these can be dismissed as being of no consequence? A little finger is described in the table, if I might so describe it, as being a minor injury. The table lists the loss of a little finger at 3 per cent. The figure for the loss of a ring finger is 6 per cent. It may be that in certain instances such injuries would represent a very significant disability. The Special Minister of State said: 'Well, we are going to cure this allegation of arbitrariness of assessment'. So the Minister at lunch time yesterday- I will say at lunch time to err as I always do on the side of generosity- gave the Opposition 46 amendments. For my part I tell him in simple honesty that I did not get a copy of these amendments until this afternoon. But the Minister pointed out to me that one of the principal provisions of the Bill is to be altered- that is to say clause 36- to give yet another further discretion to the Secretary so that he may in making a determination take into account the weekly income that he determines that a person is capable of earning. 
I am indebted to the Minister for confirming what I have just read. But the point is that it is a discretion on the part of the Secretary. 
-Why not use the word 'shall' - 
This is the very point. If you had taken a little longer time over afternoon tea your powers of comprehension may have improved. The fact is that this is a discretion and do not think for one moment the Secretary will deal with every case because he can delegate his powers to the thousands of people who undoubtedly will be needed to roam around the countryside from Cloncurry to Carnarvon to sort things out. To give an idea of the exquisite absurdity of this proposal it would be possible for an individual to get alcoholic poisoning on the continental shelf and find himself as a recipient of a benefit of sorts under the Bill. I thought that we had finished the continental shelf argument some months ago. To think that honourable members opposite have reviewed it; they should be ashamed of themselves. 
My friend the honourable member for Wentworth has dealt, as one would expect, in a very cogent fashion with the appellate system. I think it is to flatter the system to call it the appellate system. But I pass that by. To give a final illustration of the absurdity of this Bill, take the case of a Class A widow over 55 years of age. She is to get S 1,000 in a lump sum payment and three-fifths of 85 per cent of her husband's earnings. But take the case of a woman 53 years of age. What will she receive? She is to get $1,000 and threefifths of 85 per cent of her husband 's earnings for 12 months- for 12 months only. So she is put in the position where the much vaunted Woodhouse Committee says explicitly to her: 'Ah, you are all right; you can go out and work'. I suppose she would have to be retrained under some scheme or other. When the women of this country wake up to what the Government has in mind as far as this is concerned I think that they will vent a quality of vengeance upon you,  Mr Minister,  that will be thoroughly warranted. 
I have, I thought, in the course of the short time available to me been as dispassionate as I could in assessing this Bill. It is a bad Bill. It is based upon premises which are thoroughly rotten premises. It is based upon premises which do not seek to emancipate human spirit or indeed to deal with the problems which are problems in contemporary society. The Bill reflects the entire philosophic attitude of this Government. It is the cradle to the grave philosophy. One cannot be looked after from the cradle to the grave by any government, no matter what their declaration of benevolence, without submitting to the power of the government that seeks to control one. Once you surrender to a government the power to look after you in all facets of life, you surrender your personality and your being to that government. For my part and for those who sit on this side of the House, that is something we are not prepared to do. 

 -Mr Speaker, this is quite one of the most disgraceful episodes in the history of Parliament. Government supporters are shouting at me now. The bellowing of poddy calves has never worried me. The fact remains that the House is invited to deal with 1 14 clauses in 65 minutes. Never let any honourable gentleman opposite ever protest in this Parliament about the authority of the House of Representatives. The simple truth remains that the Government is reducing the Parliament to an absolute travesty. And why,  Mr Speaker?  Why the hurry? No explanation is given by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  as to why the Government needs this Bill passed this evening, not one explanation at all. The only conclusion that one can draw is that the Government wants this Bill to go into the slot as a double dissolution Bill. It wants it through this Parliament. 
I would have thought that, having regard to what was said during the debate this afternoon by several honourable gentlemen opposite, there would have been some measure of protest within the Government Party itself at the ramming through of a Bill of this highly complex nature in a matter of, as things go now, 65 minutes. I just turn to one illustration of the complexity of this Bill. I take clause 88. Let me read it to honourable gentlemen. I will read it to the House and through this chamber I hope to the country, and let the honourable gentlemen opposite explain this. Clause 88, dealing with variation of benefits says: 
( 1 ) If, in respect of a quarter, a is greater than b, each periodical rate of benefit payable immediately before the end of that quarter shall, as from the first day of the second month following the end of that quarter, be increased by a percentage ascertained in accordance with the formula 100 (a - b) 
_ +0.25 
cb (Honourable members interjecting)- 
I was simply illustrating the complexity of the Bill. My argument, with great respect, is that the House is being asked to deal with a Bill of very great complexity in a time that could only be described as scandalous. The Government may win on this occasion, but I warn the Special Minister of State that when the Opposition gets the opportunity to get the Government to the country we will put a brand on its hide that will be there for years to come. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Chipp's)  be agreed to. 
-The leisurely and lucid exposition of the amendments given by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has placed us all very much in his debt. I am sure that all members of the Committee have a thoroughgoing comprehension of all that is involved. Those perchance who are listening- if people do listen to Parliament- must be positively thriving on the understanding and knowledge that has been given to them this evening by the Minister. It was done with such becoming eloquence and with an elan of language. It was really something and it has made this day most memorable. There are some questions I should like to raise with the Minister- questions which I know, with his instinctive disposition to courtesy, he will unfailingly answer. I refer first to the definition clause. There are many aspects of that provision to which I should like to refer. I am delighted to find that Australia includes the continental shelf. I would like to know whether this covers the continental margin or the continental shelf in terms of the Geneva Convention of 1955 or what. More and more people are operating on the continental shelf and, as I pointed out in my speech at the second reading stage of the Bill, I am somewhat distressed to find out that it is possible on a broad reading of the BUI for a person to suffer alcoholic poisoning on the continental shelf and yet be a recipient of a benefit under the Bill. 
-That is so. I do not mention that by way of levity of inquiry at all. 
Thank you very much. It also covers the man who is engaged in subterranean activity. 
Well, that is a magnificent relief. I move on to something which is probably a little more important- the definition of employment. The definition of employment under this Bill is: 
For the purposes of this Act, a person referred to in the definition of 'employee' in sub-section 4(1) shall- 
if he is a Minister of State of Australia; 
if he is a member of the Parliament of Australia be deemed to be in the employment of Australia. 
Section 44 of the Constitution states, among other things: 
Any person who- 
Holds any office of profit under the Crown, or any pension payable during the pleasure of the Crown out of any of the revenues of the Commonwealth. . . shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
'This is a not a pension' says the honourable gentleman. I am most interested to hear the honourable gentleman say that this is not a pension. I invite the honourable gentleman to consider the case of our colleague whom we miss desperately, the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who broke his arm while he was out walking his dog. That behaviour should be reported to the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. The honourable gentleman, if he broke his arm would be entitled to compensation under this Bill as an Act. 
I shrink from making such a severe assessment. I ask the honourable gentleman: Who is going to be the guinea pig in this? It is all very fine for my friend to say that this is not a pension. 
Oh, is it not indeed? Some enterprising gentleman takes the view that the Leader of the House is not entitled to a pension. I send him a cheerio call at this hour of the night; that will probably put back his recovery a week or two. Who is going to be the guinea pig? We are not comforted. The splendid assurance given by the Minister in this House is not going to be received by the High Court of Australia. 
The honourable gentleman is putting himself not merely in a state of grace, he is putting himself so close to God it does not matter. I skip over the administration. I would have thought it unbelievable that the Australian Parliament, manned by men and women with normal cerebral processes, would ever have put in an Act of Parliament something like the words contained in clause 7: 
Where the exercise of a power by the Secretary is dependent upon the opinion, belief or state of mind of the Secretary in respect of a matter and an officer is authorised under this section to exercise that power, the officer may exercise that power upon his own opinion, belief or state of mind in respect of the matter. 
Why does the Government not simply say to him that he can do what he jolly well likes? 
That encourages no end. I go a little further to clause 1 1. My time is fast running out - 
I know it brings cheer to the honourable member's soul. It is meagre in charity but we are working on him. Clause 1 1 states: 
For the purposes of this Act, the contracting, acceleration, aggravation, exacerbation or deterioration of a disease as a result of personal injury is also personal injury. 
The honourable gentleman would know that if a plaintiff appears in court with a condition and it is raised that there is a pre-existing condition, it is on the defendant to show the extent of the preexisting condition. In other words, if a man has an impairment, to use this blessed word which has crept into our existence, he has to show, if there is an impairment of 60 per cent of a limb, whether there was 30 per cent before. There is absolutely nothing in the Bill dealing with this. If we relate clause 11 to clauses 17, 18 and 19, upon whom is placed the onus? Can the Secretary make a judgment capriciously? 
-He cannot? I bet he will. The last clause I wish to deal with is the cheer-up clause, clause 14, which states: 
The application of this Act does not extend to or in relation to death by judicial execution. 
Really and truly. I will read it again- 
The application of this Act does not extend to or in relation to death by judicial execution. 
Fancy a Labor Government putting that in a Bill. 
What State government has the honourable gentleman got in mind? 
Judical execution; really and truly. There is one last matter I wish to raise with the Minister because my colleagues want to take advantage of this most detached, dispassionate, leisurely exercise in legislative processing. Why does the Government come down so heavily against widows? 
The Minister can answer me later when he has massive time at his disposal. The fact remains that a class B widow, a woman 43 years of age, gets a lump sum payment of $1,000 and assistance for 12 months. The Government says, if her husband is run over by some drunken driver, that she will get assistance for 12 months. The husband may have been the most brilliant surgeon in the country or one of the most accomplished fitter and turners working at Whyalla, Port Augusta or Cloncurry. All the widow gets is $1,000 which would not even be a decent bet for the Minister at the Randwick races. She would get only $ 1 , 000. 
For how long have you extended the cover? 
It does not. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, your mention of the sum of money involved in these estimates immediately calls for a gasp- not necessarily of admiration but merely for the fact that the Committee is dealing with the consideration of an enormous sum of money in the curious fashion that is. I want to press upon you,  Mr Drury,  as one who has spent almost a quarter of a century in this Parliament, that there is something thoroughly indecent about the way the House of Representatives conducts its estimate debates. We are dealing with an enormous sum of money. I would like to ask the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  a great variety of questions, and so would my colleagues. The Minister is away. I speak in no sense of criticism about that fact. I speak of the Minister as a person whom I have known for a very considerable period with affection and admiration. The one blemish that I have been able to find in the Minister for Education is the curious political association he has formed. But beyond that, I have nothing further. Now my friend, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  comes in to answer as the acting Minister for Education. I do not seek to embarrass my honourable friend, but I remind him of the fact he is at the moment answering for 3 armed Services and the Department of Defence - 
I did it, and I did it impeccably. I did it, if I may remind the honourable gentleman with his - 
-Oh! I did it with his ringing terms of approval behind me. 
I cannot account for an aberration of politics on my side, no more than I can account for the Vesuviuses on the Government's side. I come back to my point: How can we possibly expect an acting Minister for Education to be able to give an intelligible account of the expenditure of this enormous sum of money. One has only to state the proposition to see the ugly absurdity of it. I say to my honourable friend from Bass, the Minister for Defence- I am not seeking to reflect on him in some bitter partisan fashion; I am talking about the facts of life- that no Minister unless he has dealt with a department in a very intimate fashion can possibly hope to understand what is going on. Here it is; the Labor Government sends in to account for this sum a man who does not even know what is going on in one of the departments that he is presently administering, and we are expected to take with equanimity the fact that he proposes to answer for this expenditure in what I would describe as an obscene form of time. 
-I respond to the beckonings of the honourable gentleman, not necessarily to his comfort. I will come to education. The first grievous exercise by the present Government- to call it a government is to indulge in an extreme form of words- was to cut the taxation deduction for education expenses from $400 to $150 a year. The fact of life is that we have in the Government benches a gathering of people desperately out of touch with what is going on in this countrypeople who take the view that to send a child to a State high school and to spend $160 is a violent exercise in extravagance. Beyond that, the way in which this matter was conducted- this chamber had an opportunity of considering it a few weeks ago-revealed the rather curious structure of the Australian Labor Party Government. The Caucus is an extra-parliamentary body which can have an effect upon it, but those of us sitting in this Parliament in a corporate state can have no effect at all and the Senate can have no effect at all. I mention that not merely to rub in the salt, because we will have ample opportunity before the measure is through to consider with a greater measure of particularity those who are affected. I merely want to state with the utmost clarity on behalf of the Opposition parties that when we are in government the very least we will do will be to restore the $400 allowance for taxation purposes. 
We will look with a sense of purpose at the effects that the indiscretion and irresponsibility of those who now sit in government have had upon the Australian dollar. It is to no avail any of us turning a blind eye to the fact that the Australian Labor Party, either through inaction or simple inattention, has embarked upon a policy which in ultimate terms is destined to wreck the economy of this nation. When the Prime Minister at the last election in May of this year said no alterations would be made to taxation in this country a lot of people believed him. I ask the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Barnard):  What does this monstrous arrangement amount to? It amounts to a clear repudiation In one single stroke the Government has raised the taxation level of scores of thousands of people throughout the country. Not even the inventive mind of the honourable gentleman, stirred on by the prospect that his head is among those which could be rolled, is going to rescue the Prime Minister from that. 
The last thing I want to refer to before I sit down is that the Schools Commission has sent out to the 2,000-odd non-government schools throughout Australia a questionnaire. I would have expected that the Schools Commission would have indicated why it indulged in such an elaborate questionnaire. Either the first initiatives taken by the Schools Commission were inadequately taken or there is no need for the present questionnaire. I invite my honourable friends from both sides of the chamber to look at the questionnaire. It consists of 41 pages with an accompanying memorandum of some 1 1 pages explaining what is required. This calls for some answer from the Minister. I hope that he will resort to his typical characteristic courtesy and will seek to explain to the Committee why at this stage the Schools Commission has sent out this elaborate 41 -page questionnaire. Is this information really needed or is it that the information originally asked for was inadequately sought? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. By way of preface I refer to an admirable speech given by his colleague and my friend, the Treasurer, in May this year in which that honourable gentleman said that a rate of 13 per cent inflation would mean that by the year 2000 $1 would have the purchasing power of 4c today and that a home costing $20,000 today would cost nearly $500,000 then. Having regard to the fact that inflation is running at a rate of 20 per cent, has the Government resolved to advance the mathematical prognosis of the Treasurer and, if so, to what year? 
-I ask the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who is in charge of this Bill: Why change the title of the organisation from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to the Australian Broadcasting Authority? Who conceived that idea? What is the reason for it? I still remain one of those who take the view that all actions are inspired by some reason. 

 -Mr Chairman, I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '6. Section 16 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraphs (c) and (d) of sub-section (3).'. 
I may in a very short compass explain to the Committee why this amendment is moved. I observed in the course of my second reading speech today that there were 3 powers given in the Act whereby the Board could seek to act. These are section 16 under which determinations could be made, section 17 under which orders could be made, and the regulation making power, section 134. We in the Opposition parties take the view that great powers such as are proposed should at least- I want to add some emphasis to that- be subject to the scrutiny of the Parliament. The purpose of this first amendment is to take these provisions out of section 16 and, as will be observed, later to reintroduce them in section 134. Obviously our good faith cannot be challenged. We are not seeking to take something from the Act simpliciter and to say that the Board should have no powers; we are seeking so to rearrange the powers of the Board that the Parliament can exercise a general superintendence. 
I do not propose to divide the Committee on every one of these amendments because that would be a grievous waste of time. Clause 6 of the Bill is what I may describe, without disrespect to the draftsman, as the powerhouse of the Bill. I want to ensure that the powerhouse has the right sort of control over it. I do not want it to be used in some mischievous or wanton fashion. I am left almost with the impression that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  has succumbed to such blandishment power as I may command and is even tempted to agree in general principle to the Opposition's suggestion that these powers should be transferred to the regulation making section of the Act. That, as I said, is the purpose behind the amendment. I excuse myself from more detailed comment. Some honourable members looking at this amendment may ask: 'Why on earth seek to take these provisions out of section 16? What is the purpose of it?' The purpose is to take them out and reinsert them, pursuant to a further amendment, under the regulation making powers whereby those who sit in this Parliament can have a say about what goes on. 
-The Minister has a most insinuating manner, but I am bound to tell him in simple candour that he has not captured me as yet. By way of brief explanation to the Committee on this point I say that I consciously try to avoid discourtesy to everyone. I was not being discourteous to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  in the circulation of my amendments. It was not until I found out today that the Minister who introduced this Bill was abroad for eminently proper reasons that I knew that my friend the Minister for Science was in charge of the Bill. I tell him that the amendments were handed personally to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  at 9 p.m. on 31 October in the year of our Grace 1974. 1 hope that matter is settled because the Government had possession of these amendments 12 days ago. The amendment which the Minister has adverted to is an improvement on things as they stand. But it is rather like being sentenced to 12 months gaol and the judge saying to the poor culprit: 'Look, you can make an application to get out after the eleventh month'. It is an improvement, but the simple fact of life is that it does not relieve the position at all. 
I say, not by way of fierce controversy, to the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  that the honourable gentleman has never given me the impression that there is anything wrong with his cerebral processes, until this afternoon. The honourable gentleman can read and he can see, but plainly he has difficulty in understanding. The charge that he made against me almost came to the stage of offending and upsetting me, and that would be an accomplishment indeed. If the honourable gentleman had done me the simple honour of reading on he would have seen the link in rules and standards to clause 6 of this Bill. Whatever motives the honourable member can impute to me I am not going to sit down and sob about them. Turn over the page my dear chap. I am glad he has got there at long last. The next page sets out the rules and standards to be observed by licensees in relation to the broadcasting of programs from commercial stations. This is the whole gist of the thing. I do not for one moment deny the fact that I certainly would not approve of giving to the Board the power to control programs as is proposed in clause 6. 
That brings me to what I describe as the centre of this Bill. Under clause 6 (b) of the Bill power is being given to the Board or the Authority, call it what you will- I do not think in terms of eternity it counts for tuppence- to control programs containing matter of any class or character specified in the determination. The Authority makes the determination and it writes the letter. It cannot be reviewed by anybody at all. It is all very fine for the Minister to say that one station will be told to put on Bugs Bunny while some arresting news matter of political controversy is going on in a nearby channel. This is the power, nevertheless, that is available. I come back to the eminently sensible point made by my friend the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier):  Why ask for a power if you do not propose to use it? That is my objection to clause 6 (b). I do not want to delay the Committee as I know other honourable gentlemen have some observations to make. I hope that the Minister, before we abandon or take to our heels from clause 6, will explain to us exactly what the Government has in mind in relation to clause 6 (f) which states: .... and such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has a useful amendment to that. I am sure, if he presses with his charismatic charm upon the Minister, he may even have a win. I wish him well. What has the Government in mind and what has the Minister in mind in the phrase: 'And such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate'? 
-I move- 
After clause  6,  insert the following new clause:-  "6a.  Section  17  of the Principal Act is amended by omit ting sub-section  (1)  and substituting the following subsection:  "( 1 )  For the purpose of exercising its powers and func tions the Authority, subject to this Act and the regulations in force by virtue of this Act, shall have power to make such orders, give such directions and do all such things as it thinks fit.". 
This is a formal amendment and is consequential upon an amendment which, regrettably did not meet the fate it deserved. Pursuant to the undertaking given by the Minister that- to use language that has got a fragrance all of its own- the Government proposes to take another look at what the Opposition has proposed this afternoon, it may well be that at some time in the future the Minister will have to take into account the virtue of the second amendment which I have moved. 
I am sorry to disappoint my friend, the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison).  I find myself not in the slightest moved to applaud what he has had to say. The fact of life is, however, that the amendment is an improvement, albeit a marginal one. When a licence is terminated- I use the word 'terminated' in terms of time- and a renewal has been granted, I want to put it to the honourable gentleman that it is an absurdity to imagine that a licensee would be prepared to continue to operate the management of that licence for a period of but 6 months. I observed during the course of the second reading debate that because of the enormous amount of capital invested and because the licensee is faced with the task of programming, 3 months was a palpable absurdity. Six months is an improvement. That was why the Opposition sought to have the words '3 months' deleted from the amendment contained in the amending Bill. The Opposition will not seek to divide the Committee upon the Minister's first amendment but, as a consequence of the attitude which I have expressed on behalf of the Opposition, I would seek to divide the Committee on the amendment which proposes that the words' 6 months' replace the words '3 months'. I mention that so that the Minister will know precisely the attitude we are taking. I say to the honourable gentleman that I would hope that the Government will reflect upon what is involved here. 
-By way of very brief rejoinder may I say that we all are entitled to have second thoughts about the matter. I am sure today that  Senator Greenwood,  having listened to the arguments that I have pressed upon him, would immediately say: 'Yes I see considerable substance in the point of view you have taken'. Who knows, the Minister himself one of these days may have second thoughts to his advantage. 
I want to say to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  that he has had a win at last. The logic appeals to me. It is rather like a person being caught without any trousers on. He has to do something about it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
Section 99 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the words 'standards determined by the Board' and substituting the words 'determinations made by the Authority under sub-section (3) of section 16'; and 
by omitting sub-section (2) and substituting the following sub-section:- 
If the programs broadcast from a commercial broadcasting station or televised from a commercial television station are not, in whole or in part, in accordance with determinations made by the Authority under sub-section (3) of section 16, the licensee shall, if so directed by the Authority, vary the programs so that they do so conform. '. 
-I move: 
Omit the clause. 
The argument with respect to this amendment has already been canvassed. I would not seek to inflict any further distress upon the Committee by repeating it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Advertisements). 
-The Opposition is opposed to the proposal by the Government to omit the words 'on a Sunday'. I explain to the Committee that the existing provision provides in sub-section (5) of section 100 that a licensee shall not broadcast or televise advertisements on a Sunday except in such manner and in accordance with such conditions as the Board determines. The Government is seeking to omit from sub-section (5) of section 100 the words 'on a Sunday'. That means that the Board would have complete control at all times over what advertisements are broadcast ot televised and in what manner they are presented. They will have to be in accordance with such conditions as the Board determines. The effect of the amendment proposed by the Government is this: The Board would have for all purposes at all times complete control over the entire advertising activities relating to broadcasting and television. I hark back to the robust observation made by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  during this debate when he said: 'Speaking for myself, I certainly would like to see the entire television industry nationalised and socialised'. A very swift way of doing it is simply to control the advertising of all the broadcasting and television stations for all purposes at all times. That is the reason why the Opposition is objecting to the Government's proposal. 

 -Mr Chairman, I move: 
After clause 1 6, insert the following new clause: - 
Section 1 34 of the Principal Act is amended- by inserting after paragraph (c) of sub-section ( 1 ) the following paragraph: - (ca) empowering the Authority to give or issue a direction to all or any of the persons holding licences under this Act being directions with respect to matters affecting- 
the hours during which programs or programs containing matter of any class or character specified in the regulation may be broadcast or televised; 
the conditions subject to which advertisements may be broadcast or televised by licensees; and 
rules and standards to be observed in licensees in relation to the broadcasting of programs from commercial broadcasting stations or to be observed by licensees in relation to the televising of programs from commercial television stations, including rules or standards with respect to the nature and content of programs; '; 
by inserting after sub-section ( 1 ) the following subsection: "( 1a) The Regulations empowering the giving of a direction referred to in paragraph 1 (ca) shall prescribe the criteria to be observed by the Authority and shall not authorize the giving of directions which discriminate unfairly in favour of or against any holder of a licence under Part IV of this Act. "; and 
by omitting from sub-section (2) "the last preceding sub-section "and substituting "sub-section (1)".'. 
This is the last amendment standing in my name. I do not seek to recapitulate the argument which I sought to press upon the Committee from the very beginning of this debate. I content myself with saying this: I have a very deep conviction that the only shield that people have from great powers is that those powers should be narrowly defined. The Government has been reluctant and unwilling to define those powers narrowly. The Government has been reluctant and unwilling to use that system of parliamentary superintendence which I have sought to contend during the course of today's debate has great virtue. I have lost the argument because the Government has the splendid comfort of the numbers. But the time will come, I say to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  when the wheel will turn full circle. When this happens, we will be able to reverse some of the melancholy amendments which the honourable gentleman has introduced into this Act. 
-May I say briefly that I am sure  Senator Guilfoyle  will be flattered indeed to hear of the observations made by the Minister for Science. The views she expressed on that occasion are the views of the entire Opposition. What right does any statutory body gain to have a judgment in relation to community standards which is superior to that of the community itself? This, of course, is a point of contention between honourable gentlemen opposite and those of us who sit on this side. I represent no vested interest whatever. I represent no television interest whatever. But I have a sense of conviction about the operation of statutory bodies and that is, briefly, that their operations should be subject to the maximum of parliamentary scrutiny. That was the argument we sought to impress upon the Government today. I think the Minister has moved a little but he still has a long way to travel before he reaches what we would regard as the desideratum in this matter. The views expressed by  Senator Guilfoyle  were expressed with characteristic frankness and with a characteristic sense of perception. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-As the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  just explained, there are 3 Bills before the House for its consideration. Two of them need not delay us long. These are the 2 Bills dealing with fees relating to television stations and fees relating to broadcasting stations. It is the third Bill that should invite the attention of all honourable gentlemen and, I would hope, the attention of the country. It is a Bill to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act. There are 2 views which may be taken of the amending Bill. There is the view which the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  who introduced the Bill, has invited us to take, and there is the view which the Bill demands that we should take. I say at once that if there is any coincidence between the two, any resemblance, it is a startling display of coincidence, and it is a matter of high congratulations if any similarity at all is found between what the Minister said was in the Bill and what the Bill says is in the Bill. 
I would draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Bill was introduced into this House. I should have thought that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who has the ultimate control of and responsibility for the Bill, would have been the logical person to present the Bill to the Parliament. But no, this Bill comes in here, no doubt on the basis of the assurance of numbers, and no matter what blemishes we may find in the Bill the numbers will prevail, the Bill will go through and go on its way to the Senate. If it there meets what I would encourage honourable gentleman to accept as being a proper fate, the Bill will be defeated and will come back into this chamber at some time in the future. So, therefore, the primary observation on this Bill is that it is part of the machinery for another double dissolution, and that is the way in which the Government regards the Bill. 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation during the course of his speech said that the majority of people in Australia believed that certain powers sought in this Bill were already in the Act. I must acknowledge the novelty of that argument. If the people believe there is something in an Act, and it is not in an Act, you legislate to put it into an Act! If people have a view of a certain set of circumstances and that is in effect a facade, you legislate to bring something into touch with their reality! Just think how grateful the generations of the time of Christopher Columbus would be that they were spared the Minister legislating in accordance with the beliefs of those days. The Minister for the Media, however, has gone into the public forum and presented a view by saying: 'These powers are not needed for the purposes of controlling private television. We do not propose to disturb in any shape or form private television companies.' Again, I acknowledge the novelty of that argument. If a man builds a large dog kennel in the backyard with no intention of putting a dog into it and puts alongside it a massive electric motor with no intention of using the motor, I suppose on one view one could regard that behaviour as picturesque. I would submit that a more realistic approach to it would be that it was a delightful display of eccentricity. A sharper and even more realistic view would be that it was an exquisite piece of absurdity. 
If the Minister does not propose to use the power which this amending Bill seeks, why seek it? That is the question. Let me say at once to all honourable gentlemen who may have succumbed to the notion that this Bill is concerned with television standards qua standards that it is concerned with nothing of the sort. I say to all people in the country who may have an attitude of mind regarding lasciviousness or salaciousness in any sort of activity that this Bill in no way whatsoever seeks to trammel or to control such behaviour or such expression. I say further for the Opposition Parties that we are as concerned as any other section of the community about community standards. That is our attitude and we do not propose to see those standards in any way broken down. But this Bill is concerned with power. It is concerned with the power to direct, power to control and power, if need be, to destroy. This power which is sought to be put into this Act, if used by an authority or by a government, would be sufficient to control completely all private television throughout Australia. 
This is not to gild the lily at all. This Bill points to building up the power already in the Act for the Board to give determinations. There are 3 bases upon which the Board can give determinations. There is the power pursuant to section 16 under which the Board can write to a particular station and say: 'Do this'. There is the power under section 17 of the Act whereby the Board makes orders, and there is the power under section 134 of the Act whereby the Board makes regulations. Let us take the last two-mentioned; that is to say, section 17 dealing with orders and section 134 dealing with regulations. Under both of these provisions any order or any regulation made is subject to the scrutiny of Parliament. The fact that it is subject to the scrutiny of Parliament is the whole centre of this matter. But a determination made under section 16 of the Act is in no way subject to the scrutiny of Parliament. I would suggest that it is a pretty good test of the good faith of the Government in this matter to inquire: Why not put under the regulation making power the powers you seek under section 16, so that the Parliament has an opportunity of considering the ramifications of any regulation which may come down and so that at the same time Parliament will have the opportunity of pronouncing, and properly so, on any discriminatory attitude adopted by the Board? 
Let me draw the particular attention of the House to the question of standards. The popular view to which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has lent his weight and which one or two honourable gentlemen opposite have sought to encourage in the community is that this BUI is concerned only with standards. A more refined piece of nonsense I have never listened to. I have here a copy of the television program standards compiled by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and published in 1970. It deals with the whole question of standards. Where did the Board get this power to produce these standards? It did not get it out of thin air. The Board gets its power to produce standards and to pass them on for observance in the television industry from the Act as it stands now. Take the case of a letter written by the Board on 10 October this year dealing with guidelines and the use of violence in early evening television drama programs. Does the Board simply whistle this up with no authority to back it at all? Do not say that the letter of 10 October of this year is something which stands in prospect of being out of date. It is just a matter of a few days ago. One wonders why there is the need for these powers- powers about which I will deal in a more definitive way in a moment. 
The other thesis which is being vamped by the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Media and one or two other honourable gentlemen is that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board today is virtually without any power or authority whatsoever. The picture is built up that standing this massive juggernaut, the private television stations, is this dear, resolute, timid but nevertheless ineffectual little body, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Again what nonsense some people resort to in order to sustain an argument. The Act as it now stands has an amplitude of power- the power to suspend a licence, the power to revoke a licence. What greater power could be given to any Board, to any authority, to any government than the power to revoke a licence, the power to suspend a licence? If a private television station engaged in behaviour which the Board adjudged to be unacceptable behaviour the Board has the power at its disposal to deal with the matter. So the argument which is being belted up by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for the Media that the Board is powerless is an argument which is not merely unattractive; it is an argument which has no substance in it whatsoever. 
But beyond that the Minister for the Media has gone out of his way with a singular sense of dedication to build up the argument a little further. He says: 'Well, there has been challenge after challenge after challenge to the authority of the Board'. That is interesting. The records do not show that to be the case. When a Minister of the Crown speaks about an expression of defiance, a matter of challenge, I for my part would expect that there would be some record available. There have been 2 judicial challenges to the power of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board since television was introduced in 1956. One of the cases was in 1963 and the other was in 1966. Both of them dealt not with programming as such but dealt, in one instance, with the tracing of ownership and the provisions which related to that aspect under the Act, and the other challenge dealt with the question of tying conditions to the granting of a licence. What further nonsense is it to say that for a person to question an edict given by a government authority represents a challenge. Surely that is to be regarded as a rather immature approach to the problem. These have been the 2 major challenges to the authority of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Another one, which was a matter of opinion given by counsel, dealt with Sunday programs. But to describe that as a violent challenge to the Board is to resort to fantasy yet again. These have been the 3 areas in which the Board has been challenged. There were the two court challenges dealing with ownership and with the tying of conditions and there has been the other one which dealt with Sunday programs. 
So one wonders precisely what is the purpose of this Bill. I submit that if honourable members look at clause 6 of the Bill they will find out exactly what this is all about, because this clause deals with section 16 of the Act. It is of utmost importance that this clause be understood. It deals with the section of the Act under which there can be no parliamentary review, no parliamentary scrutiny, no parliamentary challenge to any of the determinations given by the Board. Clause 6 of the Bill reads: 
The Authority - 
As it is to be called, not the ' Board ' - shall have power to do all such things as are necessary for the effective exercise of the functions of the Authority and, in particular, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the authority shall have power - 
That is the preamble to the proposed new section. Then it goes on to recite the provisions. A more plenary power I could not imagine being made available under any Act. The clause goes on to deal with what sort of controls can be exercised. The Authority can issue a determination on programs containing matter of any class or character specified in the determination. I want honourable members to reflect upon the consequence of that Under that power it would be possible for the Authority, as it is proposed to be called- an expression in paranoia itself is the fact that the name has to be changed from 'Board ' to 'Authority', but one may have an opportunity of observing something about that later- to say to a particular television station: 'You will run at a particular time- say between 6 and 8 o'clock at night- a particular character of program '. 
The principle involved here is as old a principle as one could apprehend in the struggle by free men and women to achieve their liberties and to protect them. What self-respecting newspaper editor in this country would countenance for one moment being told by a government authority where he is to place his leader page and what he is to place on his leader page, and do so without the slightest whimper? That is precisely what is involved here. It is a matter of commercial judgment that many television stations today screen their news programs at 6 o'clock at night. What would happen if the Board were to take the view that they should screen their news programs at 7 o'clock at night to coincide with the Australian Broadcasting Commission? There is no tribunal to which television stations can appeal to challenge the direction or determination made by the Board. Why are these powers sought? 
The clause goes on to deal with the determining of the rules and standards to be observed by a licensee. I have already dealt with that. I invite the Minister or any honourable gentleman opposite to point in specie- not in the wide generality to which the Minister has resorted- and to name the time, the television station concerned and the incident concerned when standards were not observed by a television station. Give us the details. We will all be interested to know on how many occasions this has in fact taken place. Then the clause goes on further to give to the Authority power to make rules which shall be observed by all television stations. Finally the clause goes on to make such provision for any other person as the Authority considers appropriate to go along and argue the case about the continuation of a licence. The Minister for the Media, who is a member of the other place, said that the other class of person to go long would be those who may possibly have some affinity with trade unions. I should have thought that the arbitral tribunals we have in this country today would be for all practical purposes quite satisfying without inviting the creation of further bodies to which people can go either to ventilate their grievance or seek to improve their lot. 
The other major alteration to which I propose to refer, albeit briefly, is that which gives the power to the Board to grant the restoration of a licence for a period of 3 months. I ask honourable gentlemen: What sort of programming could be done on the basis of the grant of a licence for 3 months? What arrangements could be made, for example, to have film prepared? What type of person with any sense of business enterprise would be prepared to invest a tremendous amount of capital in an enterprise of this nature if he knew that it could be suddenly cut off at the expiration of 3 months? The proposition is so desperately divorced from all reasonableness. 
At 8 o'clock tonight we will find out what the Government is going to do about trying to revive the fortunes of this country. It will walk to Canossa tonight on the matter of the economy. Are we to await some further example of contrition by the Government in relation to this matter? It is not enough to say: 'If a channel misbehaves itself, is contumacious or refuses to bow to a reasonable request we cannot do anything about it as we have no power'. As I have said, a more absurd picture drawing I could not contemplate. The fact is that the Board has ample power. It has the power to suspend and to revoke a licence. If those powers are not enough, I do not know what is. 
I would like to recapitulate on this one pointOrders can be given under section 17 of the Act. If the Minister for the Media takes the view that these powers are so urgently needed, why does he not put them under that section? Why does he not put them under the regulation-making section and give the power to the Parliament to have its voice heard as the occasion may arise? The Minister for the Media knows perfectly well that the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations is, in its corporate sense, more than prepared to negotiate with him, to cooperate with him and to observe any standards which may be regarded as reasonable. But no self-respecting body of people could be expected to capitulate to the daily caprice of governments or of Ministers. It is not of the nature of political authority, whether political authority on that side of the House or on this side of the House, for it to be benevolent. Political authority has no instinct for benevolence. Institutions must be raised between those who wield power and those against whom power is wielded. The only institution that can be raised in this instance is the authority of Parliament. I appeal to the Minister and to the honourable gentlemen who sit behind the Government- with varying degrees of enthusiasm, admittedly- to remember that they are dealing here with as basic a principle as can be found m the long, ancient and inspiring struggle by our people to assert liberty and to maintain it. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I would not like to transgress against your gentle nature and I hope, therefore, that you would find it a tolerable irrelevance on my part if I say to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  how glad I am to see him back from his travel abroad and to see him looking fit. It is only a lay assessment of his health but I hope that it sustains and encourages the honourable gentleman in some small measure. This is a Bill to amend the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-73. It is described compendiously as increasing the financial assistance payable to the States in relation to schools. I regret that the Minister was not here to present this Bill himself because if he had done so the House would have been spared what I would describe as a rather graceless speech made by the then Acting Minister for Education, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  The Minister's colleague when he made the second reading speech said amongst other things: 
It will be interesting to discover the attitude of the Opposition to this Bill. 
I am prepared to concede that the very great part of political conflict is, as the term would imply, of a combative nature but there are some occasions when I would hope that some measure of generosity of attitude could pervade. I regret that the Acting Minister for Education had to resort to what I describe as a rather fatuous observation in order to sustain a partisan attitude which in terms of this year, I suppose, one could describe as almost having been forgotten. The present legislation provides for a further $64.47m in recurrent grants to schools and $ 14.43m in capital grants to schools up to the end of 1975. 1 say quite explicitly on behalf of the Opposition that we support the Bill and it would be absolutely incredible if we were to do anything else. Hence my expression of utter astonishment that the 
Minister for Defence, as Acting Minister for Education, should say: 'It will be interesting to discover the attitude of the Opposition to this Bill '. 
For the sake of the convenience I trace what one could describe as the fountain of origin of this Bill. I suggest that it is to be found in a report delivered to the Minister for Education by the Schools Commission in August of this year and, for the sake of brevity and, I hope, convenience and clarity, I refer to some observations of the Commission with respect to recurrent programs. The Commission said: 
The evidence that has been made available to the Commission in respect of the rate of increases in running costs suggests that unless supplementary recurrent funds are provided, resources available in many schools will not reach the level which the Government set as its objective, even if there is continuity of effort by States and the private sector. 
That is a sentiment with which I wholeheartedly agree. The Commission went on to observe: 
Indeed it has been submitted to the Commission that some non-government schools may suffer an actual reduction in the level of services offered. Restitution of the intended value of Australian Government grants will afford relief to such schools. The Commission will address the longer term issues of viability and financial effort in its first triennial report next year. 
This is the principal assertion made by the Commission. It said: 
By taking into account actual cost increases which have taken place since the Interim Committee made its calculations and by making a provision for future increases, the Commission has assessed that the unexpended portions of the 1974 recurrent grants should be increased by some 17 per cent and the 1975 grants by some 2 1 per cent. It will be appreciated that these percentages do not represent annual rates of price movements but rather the estimated rates required to maintain the originally planned program momentum. A finite supplement to the recurrent grants is considered to be appropriate at this time pending the development of an index of school operating costs, which will be of assistance in making allowances for reasonable increases in running expenses in a manner compatible with national economic policy. 
I apologise to the House for having read those 3 paragraphs of the report. There is a measure of tedium associated with reading anything, even from a report with sentiments of which we find ourselves in handsome agreement. 
I want to put to the Minister and to the Government 2 theses this afternoon. The first is that the Government makes a corporate error of judgment if it imagines that it will solve a problem by establishing a commission. The second is that the Government makes a corporate error of judgment if it takes the conglomerate of funds made available for education purposes throughout Australia and says: 'Ergo, the problems are being solved'. 
I turn to the first thesis. The history of the establishment of the Schools Commission is well known to most of us who sat in the last Parliament. It may not be well known to the House or to the country that the original proposal for a schools commission was made by a man who stood at this dispatch box in 1945, and that was  Sir Robert  Menzies, speaking then as the Leader of the Opposition. I think that the Minister for Education is one of the few among us who was here in that day. My recollection is that he participated in the first major debate on education in this Parliament, together with the late John Dedman. I return to the thesis I am putting. In the Karmel report reference was made to the desirability of preserving decentralised attitudes towards education throughout Australia. That was one of the contentions made by Karmel and his colleagues. Yet, I suggest to the Minister, we stand in very real danger of the Schools Commission being developed in such a way that it is no longer an advisory body to the Department of Education but could be a rivalling body to the Department of Education. I would like the Minister to take some cognisance of that. 
I hesitate to give the slightest sense of approval to the Schools Commission developing into another great department of State looking out upon the entire Australian scene and taking the view that all virtue of assessment of the problems of education in Australia can be made by the Schools Commission. I illustrate that proposition very simply by recalling the occasion when a gentleman in Queensland said that all housing standards throughout Queensland- design and everything else- should be identical, until it was pointed out to him that if he built a particular type of house in Brisbane and then put it at Cloncurry the ants would eat it in a couple of years. That is the sort of concept I have in mind. People are different throughout Australia. They have different problems, and I would hesitate to give the slightest approval to the Schools Commission assuming an attitude that it could judge for all manner of problems and for all portions of the country. 
The second observation I should like to make about the Schools Commission is to refer to the questionnaire which has been sent out and about which I have not the slightest doubt in the world that my friend, the Minister for Education, has had some observations made to him by various educationalists throughout Australia. This questionnaire runs to some 4 1 pages. I am told by one headmaster that he will have to provide 3,364 answers. The same gentleman contends that one question will call for 1,640 answers. It is an extraordinary questionnaire if those contentions are true. 
What I put to the Minister is this: If all of this information is needed today, is not the inference available that the original judgment made by the Schools Commission with respect to its activities throughout Australia was in error? I put to the honourable gentleman that 2 inferences are available. One is simply that the Commission did not have sufficient information at the time when the judgment was made. If that inference is not to be supported, one asks the further question: Why the need for this information? May I say to my honourable friend, not in any sense of being difficult, that there is a very real sense of apprehension held by many educationalists throughout Australia as to the true purpose of this questionnaire. I state it as an expression of opinion which has been put to me. In short, I wish to know: What is the policy behind it? I say to the honourable gentleman that some short declaration of policy by him when he comes to reply or to sum up on the second reading debate with respect to what is the aim would be most welcome and could well quell concern and allay fears which exist. 
I am delighted to hear that. All of the Council's associates may not know. But with great respect, I do not think it disturbs the argument that I have been putting quite without any heat or unpleasantness. 
Well, we have all had to confess errors in the past. Who knows, the honourable gentleman may yet have to be put in that position. It will be a spectacular performance, but one which all of us nevertheless will enjoy. 
The second observation that I make about the questionnaire is that  Mr Scutt,  the Secretary of the Schools Commission- and I hope he does not accept this as any offence on my part- in a letter sent to school principals says: 
The document enclosed has been prepared with the advice of representatives of non-government school organisations, but the Commission assumes full responsibility for it. 
My information- and I put it in no dogmatic sense- is that that is not quite true. There was a consultation but suggestions relating to the character of questions, which were made by representatives present, were with one exception not agreed to. I put my views on the questionnaire and on the Commission to the Minister. I know the Minister only too well to know that he will not dismiss them lightly or in any irreverent sense, but that he will consider the implications of seeing the Schools Commission seeking to dwarf, as it were, in influence the Department of Education and also to control any temptation by the Schools Commission to take the view that it is responsible for the direction in some manner of infallibility of all education throughout Australia. 
The second thesis to which I turn, before the sitting is suspended, is the question of money. May I say to the Minister that I agree wholeheartedly with him in his approach with respect to schools. I am speaking now about buildings, bricks, timber and what-have-you. Some of the schools that I have seen throughout Australia do not encourage the slightest measure of pride in me at all; indeed, the contrary, an infinite sense of shame that we have tolerated many of them. As far as providing schools throughout Australia up to a reasonable standard- and the concept of a reasonable standard will be understood by all honourable members- this is a concept that those of us on this side of the House wholeheartedly agree with, even though we may disagree on some of the methods employed. But with respect to recurrent grants, I invite the Minister and the House to agree to this proposition: It costs in general terms the same to educate a lass attending, say, a little convent school at Cunnamulla in south-west Queensland as it does to educate a lass at Rockhampton, at Carnarvon, at Albury or wherever it may be, in general terms. This is where I believe the Government has made a fundamental error in approach to the issue of education. 
I acknowledge the initiatives which the Minister has taken and the deep sense of commitment that has been associated with the enterprise in which he has been involved. But I yet hope that I can persuade him to accept the view with respect to recurrent grants that there is a very real crisis facing schools throughout Australia and that some of the non-government schools are in a position of almost total collapse. May I say for myself, as one who has had a rather curious background of education, that I would fight like the devil against seeing introduced into this country a State monopoly of education. I see a tremendous virtue in diversity and I see tremendous virtue in encouraging those who by dint of vocation give over their lives to the purposes of education. For me it is an article of simple but nevertheless of deep personal faith that parents have the right to choose where their children are educated. But I say to the honourable gentleman that, with respect to a number of schools in Australia, today to the extent that those schools are in financial difficulty because of the level of recurrent grants that that right of choice is being taken away from them to that extent. 
May I give the Minister one simple illustration of what I regard as the odd manner in which some of the schools have been categorised. My attention has been brought to a school at Bondi. It is the Rabinovitch Yeshiva College. This is classified, I understand, as a Category A school. I am further informed that the school is housed in the basement of a synagogue and in some old cottages which are undergoing conversion. It is a very small school. Most of the students attending it are children who come from families of modest circumstances. 
I am indebted to the honourable gentleman for his intermention. I am sure that those associated with the school would be indebted also. But just to sum up on this one point, I am putting to the honourable gentleman and to the Government that no matter where a youngster is educated in Australia, at a government school or at a non-government school, there is a basic involvement in recurrent grants as distinct from per capita grants. I find myself in almost complete coincidence with the honourable gentleman with respect to building. But we would do a country a service if we ignored the fact that schools in ultimate terms are made up not of buildings but of students, of parents and of teachers. This to me is the area of difficulty that I see, with a greater sense of alarm, the country in this respect being thrust into. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  takes a most benevolent view of the amendments which are proposed by the Government to the Bill. I fear that he takes a rather unrealistic view of the significance of the amendments. But before I introduce any note of acerbity into this debate can I say how glad I am that the honourable gentleman graciously referred to the efforts of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and his pioneering in this field? I would join with the honourable member for Holt in observing that. 
I would go further and say that I think the right honourable member for Higgins pioneered a number of initiatives in this country that are not as yet quite apprehended in their significance by some of his contemporaries- contemporaries spread on both sides of the Parliament. It was in this field that the right honourable member for Higgins was prepared to seek to give deep and genuine expression of national sentiment. This is not said in any chauvinistic fashion. It is said with a quiet pride in the achievement of this country and a willingness to seek to portray to the world something of the character of the country. It is in that sense that the Opposition finds itself in wholehearted agreement with the Government. If honourable members turn to the first function of the Film Commission in clause 5 as it now stands, they will see that it spells out the aim and the objective of the Film Commission. Clause 5 states that the functions of the Commission are: 
to encourage, whether by the provision of financial assistance or otherwise, the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of Australian films; 
That is the ultimate objective of the Commission. Our quarrel with the Government is how best to achieve that objective- to achieve it in terms of meeting the objective but also to ensure that there will be no departure either by dint of indifference or by some susceptibility to political bias and to political prejudice. 
The area of quarrel was unfolded and expressed in a most temperate, perceptive and reflective speech by my colleague,  Senator Guilfoyle,  in another place. That area may be shortly stated: We object most strenuously to placing in the hands of a Minister- not the hands of a commission- the right to determine what shall or shall not be done. 
It is of no avail whatsoever my honourable friend from Holt saying that the prospect of this being used for propaganda purposes is- to use his felicitous phrase- 'arrant nonsense'. The honourable member for Holt has not only an immense geniality of nature but also he has always impressed me- I say this without seeking to patronise him- as highly intelligent. Surely the honourable gentleman can see something of the immense Niagara of propaganda which cascades down upon us every day in every week. It is all very well for the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  to laugh. Obviously he is too preoccupied seeking to hammer out a science policy of sorts to pause even to look at what was referred to by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)-  glossy publications. One is not overstating the position to say that at the end of a week in this place one almost needs a dray and a draught horse to cart them out. This has been pushed out all over the country. To seek to take this into the field of film production and film distribution fills us with concern. 
I will illustrate the proposition very quickly. The bona fides of the Government can be tested very readily. Why not take from the proposed amendments the power given to the Minister? The Minister, at his discretion, may say to the Commission: 'Go and produce a film of national interest'. Why not leave it to the Film Commission to determine what is something of national interest? If the Film Commission is not doing its job, the Government simply has to change the members of the Commission. Let us consider some of the immense powers proposed to be given. Clause 5 deals with some of the functions of the Commission and then continues: 
subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films and, in particular 
films that serve the purposes of a Department of State or an authority of Australia; 
Cannot honourable members imagine the 27 blushing violets in the Government making a judgment as to what would serve the purposes of a Department of State? Why not leave that - 
I do not know. It may be an improvement because I understand that it can conceal blemishes with great facility. Why not leave this power to the Commission? 
Another function contained in clause 5 concerns films that deal with matters of national interest to Australia. Why not leave that to the Commission? But no, the Government comes along and says that these powers- 3 of them in the main- should be under the direction of the Minister. It is stated that the Minister may give a direction to the Commission with respect to a film and then the categories are put. They are the categories of the type I have mentioned- the purposes of a department of State, matters of national interest and matters designed to illustrate or to interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people. 
Surely the honourable member for Holt would have a preference for leaving those powers to be exercised ultimately by the Commission and not, as is proposed by the Government, ultimately by the Minister? What would be the position if we were to take- probably an extreme case- the case of some paranoiac Minister who took the view that he could find 20 or 30 matters of national interest and he gave, in 30 consecutive weeks, directions to the Film Commission to produce films on matters of national interest or matters dealing, in his judgment, with the purposes of a Department of State? What scope of activity would be available to the Commission to deal with its business? This is the very centre of our complaint about this clause. For the honourable member for Holt to say: 'Well, this is just some fiddling little problem', is to take, as I say, a very benevolent but a most unrealistic view of the provision. I hope this House will not let go unnoticed the fact that this provision which is proposed by the Government by way of amendment to this Bill is claimed by the Government to put back what is most inaccurately described as 'teeth'. But this is not identical with what was contained in the Bill in the first place when it went into the Senate. The Minister has had a change of heart since then. 
In the first amendment, dealing with the exercise of this vast power, the Minister, under this proposed section, gives a direction and within 15 sitting days after giving that direction shall lay before each House of the Parliament a copy of the direction together with his reasons for giving the direction. At first blush, that seems an eminently proper provision to make. Why was not it made in the first place? Why did not the Government, when it introduced the Bill, indicate that when such powers were given to the Minister they would be exercised subject to parliamentary scrutiny? The simple fact of the matter is that under this proposal it would be possible for the Minister, even with parliamentary scrutiny imposed upon him, completely to control all of the activities of the Film Commission. I would hope that no person would believe for one moment that the deletion of this immense power is going- to use the in word- emasculate the Bill. Really and truly, this is to indulge in a silly piece of hyperbole. This will not emasculate the Bill at all. It will establish the Commission. It will give to it proper powers for it to exercise, and in general terms we do not complain about those powers. We have raised no quarrel at all about that. But we are concerned with what probably could take place with the Minister interfering all the time. 
The other observation I make about the speech of the honourable member for Holt is this: It is quite competent for a statutory body simply to be required to report to Parliament. The honourable gentleman says: 'Well, if the Minister is exercising a power you can question him'. The fact of life is that we know that in this House of Representatives we can ask a question here now about once every 2 months. One gets tired, almost exhausted, from getting up and down each day trying to ask a question. How unreal is that? 
Then one does not get to ask a question. The prospect of exercising parliamentary control by way of a question is a curious one indeed. This brings me to the second great power. The first power is that the Minister will have the ultimate control of saying to the Commission: 'All right, boys, turn this out'. One cannot say that all Ministers are consumed with vanity. Take the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  He is the most modest man we know. He has been protected against the ravages of vanity. But not all Ministers are like my honourable friend, the Minister for Services and Property. Some of them take their tasks very seriously indeed- so much so that they take the view that if the whole of the world does not revolve around them it should. 
So there is the first power to which I have referred. The film is then produced. The second aspect, which was referred to by the honourable member for Kooyong, is this: The Minister says where the film will be screened. Really and truly! Australian films can stand on their own for excellence. If they are produced they will be shown and they will be screened on their merits. I disagree most vigorously with my friend from Holt when he says that this will mean that they will not be screened. I suggest to the honourable member that the reception which has been accorded Australian-produced films around the world has been quite outstanding. It has been a very warm reception and I am sure all of us have welcomed it. But the Minister under the second power would be able to go to any theatre, to any drive-in, and say: 'You will screen this film'. 
Yes. The honourable gentleman again takes a most benevolent view of the provisions of the Bill, because under the second amendment proposed by the Minister- in the Senate this provision was removed- a requirement can be issued which specifies the period to which it relates, being a period commencing not earlier than a particular date, to the theatre or theatres to which it relates. Surely the honourable gentleman has no difficulty with that form of words. Take this scenario: A film is produced at the instigation of the Minister whose judgment with respect to the national interest or the purposes of a department of State is a poor one, an indifferent one. A film is made as a consequence and that film, by dint of this provision, has to be screened in every theatre. If the Minister said: 'I want this film screened in every theatre throughout Australia', every theatre proprietor would be obliged to screen it. If he does not screen it, he has committed an offence. I hope honourable gentlemen will look at the great lovers of liberty. If the Minister for Services and Property ever gets up again and talks about the onus of proof, about liberty and about the Bill of Rights, I hope he has to reach for a glass of water, because a person can be fined $200 if he does not comply with the requirements of this legislation. Then the onus is on him. It is a defence if the person charged with an offence under the sub-clause proves that he had a reasonable excuse. Why should it not be on the prosecution to prove that he did not have a reasonable excuse. I have heard honourable gentlemen prattle here about the onus of proof and kindred matters for nigh on 20 years and I am getting a little tired of it. Why do we not have some consistency in relation to this matter? 
To sum up, our objection to this Bill is the manner in which the Government seeks to implement its objectives. When the right honourable member for Higgins pioneered initiative in this field there was no suggestion of tying that initiative down to ministerial control. There was no suggestion of ensuring that everything had to be met and approved by the Minister, and no power was given to the Minister to intrude in the fashion in which this Bill seeks to give power. Our objections are, with respect, principally to the 2 features I have mentioned: Firstly, that the Minister can determine what is good for us all and, secondly, that the Minister can determine the theatres in which the films shall be screened. If the Minister for Science can be prevailed upon to remove these amendments, to let them waft away into the desert night, he would cheer us up immensely. This Bill is welcomed. The principle of it is welcomed most warmly by us. We are disappointed, and disappointed intensely, that the Government has seen fit to give expression to a philosophy which is quite unacceptable to us. 
-The Minister makes a fundamental mistake when he says that the Opposition is being difficult. I want to put it to the Minister that he is making an even more fundamental mistake by trying to gather from the second reading speech relating to this Bill what is in the Bill. This Parliament can bring a statutory corporation into existence and it can extinguish itslife. But the point at issue is simply this: Why should a statutory corporation be so designed that it can indeed become the tool of the dominant government of the day and of the Minister of the day. That is the point at issuenone other. This was explained in simple, blunt and characteristically forthright terms by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton). 
The Minister said in relation to the Government's proposed clause 7a that the Minister is trammelled in that he can deal only with prescribed matters. I invite the Minister in the name of simple understanding and of certainly relieving me of the prospect of suffering some tension, to come with me on a quiet, gentle little walk back to sub-clause (1) (b) of clause5. The sub-clause reads: 
The functions of the Commission are- 
subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films- 
Any films- not a particular film- and that covers the field. The sub-clause then goes on to deal with particular matters and the language used is: and, in particular'. So the situation that I invite my friend to agree to is this: We have a Minister who can cover the field, say, with respect to any film. 
Paid by the Commission- with respect, that seems to me to be hardly relevant. I am dealing with the powers of the Minister. Under this provision the Minister can direct the Commission with respect to any film. It goes on to specify the particular powers that are there. If the Government wants to establish a statutory corporation of this character- this one stands on its own; it is quite singular, quite different from most other corporations which have come into being- and then say that the Government should have some link in it that is intelligible enough to us. This scrutiny would be quite apart from the parliamentary superintendence in the matter of reporting to Parliament annually or whatever the case may be, the money being made available for its operations by this Parliament. 
Why does the Government not content itself with saying: 'The Minister may request that a particular film be made'? Then the ultimate judgment would be left to the Commission. This is the bone of contention between us. We are quite determined that we would like to see the Commission established, but we are not content in the least with seeing a commission established which could quite blatantly, flagrantly, almost obscenely, become a vehicle for Government propaganda. That is giving it to the Minister in straight language which I am sure he will understand. It would be more becoming the stature of a commission of this nature to have its independence put in a position where it can, on its own judgment, respond to a request from the Minister. That is the simple approach of the Opposition. It disturbs me immensely to find that we are getting such an austere reaction from the Minister for Science. 
I protest,  Mr Chairman,  against the mean minded attitude - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to. 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the proposed new clauses be inserted in the Bill  (Mr Morrison's amendment). 
-Clause 9 is a perfect example of the dilemma in which the Government finds itself, because if the Government were of good faith in the matter of having an independent Commission it would not have insisted upon giving to the Minister overall control with respect to films and film content. Yet in this instance, when it comes to administration, clause 9 states: 
For the purposes of performing its functions, the Commission shall keep itself informed ... 
The honourable member does not know how lucky he is. The point,  Mr Chairman,  as you well know as one who sat watching the debate anxiously during the afternoon, is that the Opposition's quarrel is that the Government is not prepared to allow this Commission to operate in an independent fashion. Clause 9 of the Bill states: 
For the purposes of performing its functions, the Commission shall keep itself informed . . . 
The clause then goes on to recite the provisions. Yet when one looks at the Commission's functions, which are to be found in clause 5, all of those functions are trammelled. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has just said to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison):  'Shall we knock them over?' I had thought that at long last the Minister for Services and Property would reveal himself as the only genuine left winger in the Labor Party. Here we have the extraordinary position in which the Government finds itself. All of the functions of the Commission are trammelled by ministerial superintendence, intervention, control, direction -call it what you will- and when it comes to the performance of those functions the Bill states that the Commission shall keep itself informed. It is an extraordinary state of affairs. I only regret that the Minister took the opportunity to make what I describe as a regrettable onslaught or assault against the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  He did this in connection with this matter, or on a matter associated with it. He questioned the bona fides of the honourable member for Kooyong. I think that is a very great pity. To return to the clause before the Committee, what puzzles me is that the Minister, even at this late stage of the debate, cannot concede that what the Government is trying to create is a completely imperfect edifice. It is establishing a Commission which, for all practical purposes, is under the control of the Minister. In this clause the Government's inconsistency is revealed. I only hope that this evening when the Minister for Science reflects upon what he has done on this dreary day his conscience will strike him and that he will have a sleepless night. 
I protest against the attitude taken by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  with respect to this amendment. The logic put by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  surely is captivating, if not overwhelming. 
Question (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Morrison's amendment)  be inserted. 
I would like to raise one matter with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and it is this: Having regard to the current airline stoppage, I ask what the Government 's position would be relating to the Parliament sitting tomorrow? If the airlines are not functioning, I invite the Minister to agree that it would be a waste of time to seek to move members of Parliament out of Canberra by other means and not to sit tomorrow. Taking the various assumptions which are available, that is firstly that the airline strike will continue tomorrow and secondly that the strike continues for some longer period of time, it is my understanding that some members propose to return to Canberra on Monday at no mean inconvenience. Very properly this is the case because Parliament has the first call upon members' time. Members will be required to break arrangements of long standing to return on Monday, but it might not be possible to return on Monday. Being an Irishman the Leader of the House will understand me when I put the case in that fashion. But I invite the honourable gentleman to consider explaining to the House what the Government's attitude would be, taking the first assumption. I would not like the honourable gentleman to get the impression that we are all passionately interested in pursuing his company, even on Friday, making it 5 days a week. Even those of us with a sense of charity could make the worst of a bad thing. 
-On the thirteenth of this month the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  introduced a Bill to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act. When the honourable gentleman introduced the Bill he used a form of words in his second reading speech with which I find myself in complete and ready agreement. May I remind the House of what they were. He said: 
This Bill is designed to introduce several reforms of a fundamental nature to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
The description 'fundamental reforms' is one with which again I find myself in complete and utter agreement. But there, I regret to say, our paths part. One of the melancholy facts of life under the present Government is that it is virtually impossible to have a considered Committee debate upon any measure. To stand in contemplation of having a leisurely- I do not use that term lightly- Committee debate on this Bill is not something that would fill one with encouragement after the recent performance in the vote of this House just a few moments ago. I say to the Minister, not with any heat at all, because that is rather foreign to my nature, that one of the great pities of this Parliament is the reluctance of the honourable gentleman and of many of his colleagues in the Government to allow a reasonable Committee debate upon Bills. 
It is of the utmost importance that when we are dealing with the Electoral Act we should seek to reflect a bi-partisan attitude. Regrettably, if we take the view that amendments to the Electoral Act should reflect only one Party's point of view, to that extent, we encourage cynicism and suspicion throughout the entire community. I regret to say that the Minister for Services and Property has done very little to seek to reflect a bi-partisan approach to the question of electoral reform. For example, it would be rather fanciful to say of the honourable gentleman that he speaks from a position of fierce neutrality in the matter of electoral reform. Some of his observations which I have listened to over a very long period of time certainly would not stir up in my mind the vision of one who is completely neutral in the matter of electoral reform. 
I would have hoped that the honourable gentleman, having set his hand to the plough in the matter of electoral reform, would have heeded the simple fact of life in this country that people are suspicious and cynical of governments which do not treat the matter of electoral reform with impartiality. I am talking now about the administration of the Act, the provisions which are to be inserted in the Act and the like. I am not talking about electoral redistribution on which we may all hold our own separate views. But unless there is an impartial approach to the reform and amendment of the Act I believe it is quite impossible to encourage in the Australian community or in any community the belief that we are dealing fairly and impartially with people. As a consequence I would like to see the Minister withdraw this Bill and appoint a joint all party select committee to examine the whole field of electoral reform. 
I will be referring to some of the aspects in the Bill which trouble me and which I know trouble some of my colleagues. There are 187 of us in this Parliament who are experts in the matter of electoral reform and I will be dealing with some of the matters that may possibly reveal the manner in which I am tinged in terms of disposition to give my support. But I hope the honourable gentleman will be inclined before we finish the second reading debate on this Bill to take a benevolent approach, to take a proper approach, to this Bill and withdraw it and ask the Parliament to appoint a joint all party committee to consider all aspects of the Electoral Act. I say to my friend in simple candour that there are a number of provisions contained in his amending Bill for which he would find generous support on this side of the House. 
I hope that the honourable gentleman would recognise that there is no virtue in seeking to dragoon members of his Party or, indeed, to attempt to do so in respect of members of this side of the House by saying: 'Vote for the Bill without having an opportunity to consider all of the proposals in detail'. After all, it is only 12 days since the honourable gentleman introduced the Bill. One could hardly describe that as being a substantial time for the members of this Parlia.ment or for the members of the community to reflect upon the consequences of the Bill. I point out that the amending Bill runs to some 43 pages. 
It has 65 clauses. The Minister himself has identified 34 major alterations to the law. He has described some of the other amendments as fairly minor amendments of a procedural nature. But when we deal with 34 major alterations- I take the honourable gentleman's assessment of what is major- we are dealing with a matter of very great substance. 
Further,  Mr Acting Deputy Speaker,  I draw to your attention one clause of the Bill. Clause 2 1 deals with the printing of Party affiliations on ballot papers- a provision to which I would turn later. It has no fewer than 22 sub-clauses. The honourable gentleman would need to be swept into the very outer region of expansiveness to give to honourable members a proper Committee debate on some 22 sub-clauses. Our fear, promptly and explicitly expressed, is this: There is no prospect whatsoever of considering in a detailed way what the Minister and the Government have proposed. That is a very great pity indeed. I have referred to this one clause, clause 21, dealing with the registration of political parties. It would be to adopt an Alice in Wonderland attitude to imagine that this one clause is free of controversy. I suspect that the community at large has not had the slightest opportunity to consider all of the ramifications in clause 21 of the Bill dealing with the registration of political parties. 
With your leave,  Mr Acting Deputy Speaker,  I would seek to illustrate my general thesis as to the complexity of the Bill and the fact that many of its provisions are studded with contention by turning to clause 2 1 dealing with the printing of Party affiliations on ballot papers. In summary, this provision seeks to register all political parties in Australia which contest elections. There are some rather curious provisions dealing with this aspect. For example, I turn to the clause which deals with the powers given to the very distinguished and able servant of this country, the present Chief Electoral Officer. These are immense powers. I have no quarrel with the present incumbent of the position holding those powers because those of us have known him over a long period of time recognise and accept the immaculate way in which he has discharged his duty. But the fact remains that these are powers of a very substantial nature which the Minister seeks to confer upon whoever the officer of the day may be. I shall read proposed section 58l. ( 1 ) to illustrate the point. 
The Chief Australian Electoral Officer shall refuse an application for the registration of a name in respect of a party if, in his opinion, the name . . . 
That is all that has to be satisfied- 'if, in his opinion'. The sub-section lists various criteria ranging from (a) to (i). I shall deal with one or two of them. 1 am not culling them in terms of offensiveness or curiosity; I am instancing them to express the point. Paragraph (b) of proposed section 58L. ( 1 ) provides:  . . . if, in his opinion, the name- 
comprises more than 6 words. 
Why pick on 6 words? For myself I can see great virtue in 3 words- the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Country Party, the Liberal Party. But why 6 words? What is so splendidly virtuous about 6 words? Why not five? Why not four? The Minister, in his second reading speech, I know with his typical consideration for all honourable gentlemen, did not want to submit us to any form of tedium and so he restrained himself from entering into an elaborate exposition and indulging in detail on all points. I would be interested to hear, from the lips of the honourable gentleman, an explanation of why 6 words have been chosen in regard to the name of a party. 
I turn now to paragraph (c) of proposed section 58l.  (  1 ) which states:  . . . if, in his opinion, the name- 
includes the word 'independent'; 
I can conceive- I speak now, I hope, as one with some affinity with genuine liberalism- of circumstances where, for example, a party may describe itself as the Independent Labor Party, the Independent Liberal Party or the Independent Country Party. Why trench upon basic rights further? Why trench upon rights in that fashion? I move to paragraph (d) which states:  . . . if, in his opinion, the name- 
suggests a connection with the Royal Family, the Crown or the Government of Australia or of a State: 
I am delighted to see such a robust, monarchical sentiment expressed in a Bill drawn up by a Labor Government. I ask the honourable gentleman this question: What exactly does 'Government of Australia' mean? For example, what would happen if the term 'Australian Party' were to be used? As we all know, that Party played a role in recent elections. Could it be construed that the use of such a name might possibly infringe in the judgment of the person beckoned by law to determine whether there is an infringement? Paragraph (i) states:  . . . if, in his opinion, the name- 
is of a kind declared by the regulations to be objectionable. 
Why not detail them in the Bill? I concede to the honourable gentleman a robust approach to political life and a readiness to resort to practical matters, but it is strange to include regulations. One could enisage some regulations being drawn up which might not necessarily receive the approval of the House sitting in its corporate nature. Proposed section 58d. (1) provides that only parties which have not less than one-quarter of the whole number of divisions contested can be registered. Again I ask the honourable gentleman: What is the virtue of 25 per cent? Why restrict the figure at all? What would happen, for example, if we had a political phenomenon in South Australia-I am advancing this argument not out of casuistry or out of complaint- where 4 candidates were fielded? I suppose with South Australia having 12 seats I should reduce the number to two to put myself - 
-I have seen the honourable gentleman's Party in such a state of disarray on occasions that it reminded me of a jig-saw puzzle. Those days, I think, are coming back and more quickly than Government members suspect. I ask honourable gentlemen: Why 25 per cent in this instance? Let me move on and take as an example the State of New South Wales where, conceivably, we could imagine 5 or 8 candidates being fielded by dint of the eruption of some political attitude. Why should those people by the approach adopted in this provision find that they are to be fettered in a way that other people are not? Referring, for example, to the proposal to draw positions on ballot papers, I point out that the House has not had the opportunity to consider all the implications of that provision. I have heard murmers of disagreement with respect to the increase in the deposit for a Senate candidate to $1,000. I find myself in agreement with the need to get some reasonableness in the terms of the conduct of Senate elections. But I express simple, open doubt as to whether this would enable us to achieve that result. 
I refer next to the closing time of the polls which this Bill seeks to change from 8 p.m. to 6 p.m. As a Queenslander and with the prejudice of geographical associations I point out that we have seen for many years now State elections conducted on the basis of polling concluding at 6 p.m. I find myself in disagreement, albeit mild in character, with a number of my colleagues on both sides of the House who believe that the closing hour should remain at 8 p.m. I recognise the force of their argument. I must confess that I am not convinced by it. Conceded that many people because of religious convictions and beliefs could not vote, but in his second reading speech the Minister for Services and Property said that ample arrangements would be made for these people. I instance this to show to the Minister typically the sort of divisions that we find in all political parties with respect to electoral machinery and to the provisions in an electoral Act and hence the importance of having a bipartisan approach to the matter of electoral reform. 
The honourable gentleman is not as obdurate as he tries to make out that he is. I believe that there are occasions when he responds readily and generously to suggestions which are made for the better conduct of parliamentary affairs. I think that this is one occasion when the Minister will have the opportunity to rise to it predictably and spontaneously and, I would hope, generously. Therefore, I would hope that the honourable gentleman would accept my appeal to establish a joint all-Party Committee to review the whole range of operations of the Electoral Act. When the first Electoral Bill was introduced in 1902 by  Sir William  Lyne- a Federal electoral division in New South Wales bears his namethat gentleman said: 1  have always felt that it is best to confer a liberal franchise and to pass liberal electoral laws. 
That is a sentiment with which I find myself in complete agreement. I opened up by saying that I found myself in complete agreement with the Minister who has introduced the most recent amending Bill to the Electoral Act. I find myself in complete agreement with the man who introduced the first Bill to enact the electoral Act. I appeal to the honourable gentleman to heed the spirit in which this proposal is put forward by the Opposition and to appoint a joint all-Party select committee to examine the provisions of the Electoral Act. 
I move: 
That the word 'now' be omitted from and that the words 'this day 6 months' be added to the question. 

 Mr Speaker, you will agree after looking at the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that in the course of the last few minutes a splendid sense of contrition has come over him. I think that he is genuinely sorry that he has interjected a partisan approach into this debate. Beyond that I am convinced that the honourable gentleman sees the virtue of the suggestion that the Opposition has made that a joint all-Party select committee should inquire into electoral reform in this country. Whatever criticism may be made of the Minister for Services and Property, he is at least a reflective personality. He is one who is given to considering earnestly the argument that is put before him and I am convinced, and deeply so, that in the course of the last few minutes he has seen the error of his ways and the virtue of ours. I am sure that the Minister will realise that, by accepting this amendment, he will have the opportunity to consider in closer detail the views which have been put by the Opposition. I have heard it said that the honourable gentleman is slow to see and understand an argument. It is a point of view that I do not subscribe to and I think it is to treat the honourable gentleman in a most ungenerous fashion. I would be the last person to treat him in that way. 
I move: 
That progress be reported. 
-I move: That the Chairman's ruling be dissented from. 

 -Mr Chairman, I move: 
That the Committee no longer has confidence in the  Chairman. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to order. My submission is a short one. The Standing Orders provide that 20 minutes shall be given over to consideration of a motion of this character. I refer you,  Mr Speaker,  to standing orders 92 (g) and 93. My submission is that there is no basis upon which the Leader of the House can move the motion that he has moved. 
Opposition members- Yes. 
-As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has observed, the House is dealing with 3 Bills. We have agreed to have a general debate on these cognate Bills. The States Grants (Universities) Bill, which deals with amendments to the States Grants (Universities) Act, occasions no disapproval from this side of the House. In simple terms, the Bill takes cognisance of the fact that inflation is still with us, like the poor, and the Government is seeking to heed that simple fact. The Opposition supports it. That Bill can be put to one side and those honourable members who interest themselves in the debate are, of course, at liberty to roam far and wide over the field of university activities. 
The second Bill, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, similarly can be despatched within a short space of time. However, before I deal with it may I put this to the Minister The 
Minister, in my long association with him, is, both by instinct and by practice, a most courteous man. Therefore, I am somewhat dismayed to observe that questions I had placed on the notice paper of 18 September 1974, relating to colleges of advanced education, have not been answered. I readily concede that the Minister is busy and that a great Department of state is busy - 
I realise that. To that extent, I am at a minor disadvantage in dealing with this Bill because there was information I was seeking regarding the activities of colleges of advanced education. May I say that my instinct, vulnerable as that may be to a great variety of elements and influences, leads me to the conclusion that we have embarked upon a program of cultivating a few too many colleges of advanced education. I am wondering whether the Parliament at some time in the future should not look at this form of activity with a view to ensuring that the taxpayerthat magnificent uncomplaining characteris getting his and her fair share of the money. 
-No. 1 assure my friend that I am under no element or influence of confusion whatsoever. The second matter I would like to raise that concerns this Bill is this: One of the sections which the Bill seeks to amend is section 6 of the existing Act. Section 6 of the existing Act provides, amongst other things, that:  ... for the purpose of carrying out an approved project in connection with the college or colleges, there is payable to the State in which the college is, or the colleges are, situated, for the purpose of financial assistance, such amount (if any) as the Commission approves, but not exceeding . . . 
This is where the amendment comes in- 
where the college is, or the colleges are, specified in Part  1  of the Third Schedule- five times the State contribution; . . . 
That section is to be amended to provide for what is described as a 'relevant factor'. The relevant factor is included in the Sixth Schedule to the Bill. May I use a specific case to illustrate the difficulty which I understand could well arise in the administration of the Act as amended. I am looking into the future. Take the college in Queensland, the Brisbane Kindergarten Teachers College, which is mentioned, I believe, in the Second Schedule in the Act. A total grant of $810,000 is to be applied to that College. The way the proposed amendment will work will mean that the amount to be ascertained is so ascertained by multiplying the State's contribution by the relevant factor for the State. Let us take the position with respect to this specific college. The State of Queensland is advancing $90,000 for this project. Applying the proposed amending Bill as an Act, we find the relevant factor is 5.9458. Exactly how the relevant factor is worked out I am curious to know. However, applying that to the $90,000 one finishes with $535,000 or thereabouts. One is guided by the amendment to section 6 of the Act in terms of the relevant factor. I take it as 5.9 for the sake of convenience, multiplying State's contribution, this sum of $90,000, by the relevant factor one is limited to the amount I mentioned and one does not get to $810,000. 
What I think has happened with respect to the new colleges which have come into the scheme of things is that the person who has drawn the Bill or who gave instructions for the Bill to be drawn has sought to take into account those colleges which did not fit into the full triennium. In the aggregate I concede that the sum of money which will be available to Queensland will not change but I invite my friend, the Minister for Education, to direct his attention to the fact that in some instances one could well find that some anomalies will occur. I am sure the honourable gentleman, if such an anomaly does occur, will respond to it readily and, I am sure, sympathetically.  Mr Speaker,  they are the 2 short observations I want to make about two of the Bills. My observations relating to the third Bill dealing with technical education will be a little more elaborate. I suggest, as a consequence, that this may be a convenient time to suspend the sitting of the House. 
Sitting suspended  from 6.15 to 8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had dealt with 2 of the 3 Bills which the House is considering in a cognate debate. One of the Bills deals with universities, the second deals with colleges of advanced education and I now turn to the third Bill, which in my respectful opinion is the most substantial of the 3 measures, namely, the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'while not denying this Bill a second reading, this House: 
believes that the system as proposed by the Bill for the development of Technical and Further Education imposes intolerable and unacceptable administrative burdens upon the States and their educational systems; 
b) deplores the fact that Parliament has had no opportunity to debate the Kangan Committee's report with regard to Technical and Further Education, and notes with concern the departure by the Government from the recommendations of the Committee; 
asserts that the provisions of the Bill for the extensive use of ministerial discretion will prove to be vexatious and will limit the States in their own educational programs; 
contends that the grants proposed to be made to the States for the purposes proposed by the Bill should be made without being subject to the conditions as so prescribed; and 
calls upon the Government to implement a scheme of grants to the States for technical and further education that gives to the States control of expenditure of such grants and requires of them to report annually to the Minister as to the manner in which such grants have been expended'. 
At first blush that may seem to be a rather ungenerously worded amendment. This Bill seeks to expend some $89m in an 18 months period from July 1974 up to and including June 1975. 1 can understand honourable members on the Government benches saying: 'What a curious response to give to the expenditure by the Commonwealth of such a vast sum of money on technical education'. I am bound to describe this Bill as being utterly unique in the parliamentary history of this country. Never before has a Bill containing some 32 clauses been introduced holding within it some 43 ministerial discretions. I want to say without any sense of offence that the person who gave the instructions for the drawing of this Bill, I hope, will be identified because he is deserving of some measure of immortality at least in terms of having a wax effigy made of him and for that effigy to be stuck in Madame Tussaud 's waxworks. 
It is a most extraordinary Bill indeed. I am bound to say to the House that the technique which lies behind, first the giving of instructions for the drawing of this Bill, and second, the purpose in the drawing of it, is a technique before which I bow with unfeigned admiration. I would not have thought it possible that any one person would have had such an infinite respect for Parkinson's Law or for the manner in which the whole edifice of bureaucracy is constructed that he could have combined all these qualities and put them into one Bill. But here it is; it has been achieved. For a paraphernalia of this description to be created and to be passed through this Parliament without complaint would mean that the Parliament of the country had lost its capacity to protest. I would hope that every newspaper editor in this country and every person who has anything at all to do with technical education in this country will get hold of the Bill and will examine it by day and meditate upon it by night. I would say that after the third or the fourth day their sense of resentment will be well and truly accumulated. 
Let me describe to the House what sort of a Bill we are dealing with. We are dealing with a Bill that provides for 8 categories of grant. I will deal with three of them for a start. Grants will be made for major building projects, minor building projects and student resident projects. Grants made for each of these projects in the first instance are to be subject to ministerial approval of the project. When the Bill talks about ministerial approval of the project, it is not talking about some State Minister; it is talking about the Federal Minister. The basic assumption in the Bill is that either by dint of environment or by geography a measure of political infallibility can come to Canberra but cannot go anywhere else in the State. I do not yield to any person in this Parliament, or indeed outside it, in my desire to see created a proper sense of national priority. But for the Government to trot in here with a BUI of this character and to expect us to accept it in a manner of infinite docility- all I can say is that it has lost command of its cerebral processes. 
But I come back to the 3 types of projects. Let me take the first one, which is concerned with major projects. Such projects are controlled by dint of clause 5, which reads: 
For the purposes of section 6, the Minister may approve major building projects . . . 
First of all the Minister's approval of the major project has to be obtained and then, after having approved of it, the Minister under clause 6 may approve of the moneys for the project to be paid to the State. Under the Schedule some $28m-odd is to be made available. Then we come to minor building projects. People may well say: 'Why should you get so fussed up about this?' Let us look at the definition of a 'minor building project'. It means a building project other than a student resident building project that does not involve the purchase of land- that is intelligible- and the estimated cost of which does not exceed $40,000. Also included in that category are items of equipment costing more than $2,000. I ask my friend the Minister for Education whether he really knows what sort of burden he proposes to shoulder under legislation of this character. 
Yes, indeed; to look at the Minister is to sweep one into a sense of acute dismay. 
Curiosity has always consumed the Minister; it will yet destroy him. Under this legislation the Minister could have put before him for consideration the purchase of a small lathe costing $2, 100 for the town, for example, of Barcaldine in central western Queensland- a town the name of which the Australian Broadcasting Commission insists on mispronouncing. The Minister has to approve of that purchase. Why should a Minister shouldering the administrative burdens of a great department of State have to concern himself with that sort of responsibility? But having made the decision, what can the Minister then do? Pursuant to a further clause in the Bill he may revoke or vary the project. What an incredible business. Why? No explanation is given. There is not one syllable of justification given in the Minister's second reading speech for such a sweeping indulgence in ministerial discretion. 
But then again, in respect of student resident projects - 
'Ha, ha' says the Minister for Labor and Immigration who has recently returned from his jaunt abroad. The Minister for Education approves a project. Then he may approve the payment to the States. There is a total of some $4m in the aggregate. I want to say this to the Minister The 3 categories of project are all subject to a number of conditions, and these are governed by clause 1 1 of the Bill. Under clause 11 if the Minister forms the opinion that the moneys have been applied with undue delaythe language of the Bill provides 'without undue delay' or that the State has not furnished to the Minister a certificate of an authorised person- he can turn round and say to the State: 'In my opinion'- listen to this for a form of legislative impertinence impossible to believe- 'a condition has not been fulfilled'. After having determined that the Minister can turn round and determine what sum of money is to be repaid by the State to the Commonwealth government. 
I invite the Minister- I invite him to use all the paraphernalia at his disposal and at the disposal of the Government- to produce one other comparable example of a debt being incurred by dint of ministerial discretion. I would have thought that if a State had not spent the money that would be a question of fact and not of ministerial discretion. If the State had not spent the money the Minister would have been able to make appropriate moves for its recovery. Clause 1 1 in its present form reads: . . . if the Minister informs the Treasurer of the State that he is satisfied that a condition applicable under paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) - which are the preceding paragraphs in clause ... has not been fulfilled, the State will repay to Australia such sum as the Minister determines - 
It is unbelievable. I am delighted to see that the Minister for Labor and Immigration has such boisterous enthusiasm for such a curious proposal. No doubt the Minister's display in this matter will confirm the suspicion that a number of us on this side have, and that is that the Minister has a fancy to indulge in erraticism 
I come now to that part of the Bill which deals with grants which are made available, namely grants for recurrent expenditure. To work one's way through the manner in which conditions descend down over this system can only be described by me as unbelievable. Clause 13 regulates the manner in which these grants are to be paid. Interestingly enough, there is no discretion given to the Minister with respect to the payment of grants for recurrent purposes. But there is a host of conditions. For example, the application must be made within 6 months. Mention is also made of 'a certificate of an authorised person', moneys to be spent and the furnishing of information by the State to the Minister as required, and never mind about its relevance. Further, if the Minister is not satisfied that one of those conditions has not been fulfilled what does he do? He writes to the Treasurer and says: 'My dear  Sir Gordon  Chalk - 

 - Sir Gordon Chalk. He is the Treasurer of the State of Queensland. The Government of that State will have a resounding victory next Saturday. 
Then there is the category for certain programs for particular purposes. Again one finds a curious legislative formula which is invoked here. Funds may be transferred from this area of activity to another area. In my opinion, these funds could well become subject to the conditions now existing in clause 13. 
I hustle on, not that I would not enjoy going through each of these clauses with what I have described as customery Irish patience; but I take the last 3 categories, which are the teacher training program, special projects and planning projects. 
I am delighted to find at long . last the Minister would make a confession which would be marginally in my favour. Again, these 3 categories are controlled by conditions. I say this to the Minister: We have, I hope, in a gentlemanly and I would like to think in a genial fashion for nearly 20 years exchanged views on one another's political affinities. But I say further to the Minister, out of sheer personal solicitude, that if he were to seek to administer this legislation as is proposed, I venture the view that we will be attending a State funeral within 6 months, such will be the physical burden which will be thrust upon him. For the life of me, I cannot understand why it is that Ministers have an anxiety to involve themselves in the minutia of day to day administration. 
My friend may well say: 'That is not my desire. That is the intention of the Government. There is a power of delegation in the Bill '. That is nothing to the point. I ask the honourable gentleman: Why is there this enthusiasm to adopt the assumption that all virtue is to be found in Canberra? What is wrong with saying to the States: 'Here is the money. We ask of you, please, that you produce to us every 12 months a report as to how you have spent the money'. Then, the Minister can attach the conditions. You,  Mr Speaker,  if I may with respect say to you with your immense practical experience in these matters, I am sure would agree with me that this would be the desirable thing to do. But to give to the Minister the responsibility of this enormous administrative detail and burden seems to me to be completely unnecessary. It is to take a very curious view as to how the national Parliament should legislate. I would hope that the Government would reflect on what is involved here and I hope that the Government would consider- I say this seriously- withdrawing the Bill and providing a scheme whereby grants are made to the States and there is a requirement on the States to furnish to the Minister every 12 months a report on what they have done with the money. 
It is perfectly true, and I suppose it is one of the paradoxes of political history in this country, that the person who pioneered the emancipation of the grants power was a man who at one time or another in his life stood at this despatch box and at another time- for 16 years- stood at the despatch box on the other side of the table. That was  Sir Robert  Menzies. In the roads grants legislation in the 1920s, he argued in the courts that grants should not be given subject to conditions. The emergence of  Sir Robert  from that debate was of course one of the illuminating features, one of the great features, of constitutional history. One then comes onto 1942 when  Sir John  Latham in the uniform tax case uttered words to this effect in his judgment: 'If in an Act providing for money to be granted to the States, the Commonwealth Government provides that conditions are to be observed, the resolution of those conditions is not a matter for the Courts; it is a matter for the political arena'. 
This is where the Government and the Opposition part ways on this matter. We say that it accords with commonsense, we say that it accords with the spirit of this country, that grants should be given not subject to an infinite array of conditions and not subject to great powers put at the disposal of the relevant Minister. Grants should be given on this basis: 'Here is the money, we have the power. We are prepared to ask of you but one thing and that is that you will come back here every 12 months and tell us how you have spent the money'. This is the argument I put to the Minister and to the Government. 
The last thing I want to say is that the Opposition 's amendment seeks not to defeat the Bill as such. The Opposition welcomes the initiative that has been taken in seeking to stimulate interest in this country in technical education and in the creation and the achievement of technical skills. For far too long we have put too much emphasis upon university education and I fear that we have as a consequence roused in Australia something of an intellectual snobbishness in respect of skills. I do not want to give away too many trade secrets as to the basis of my political survival, but if I want to know what is happening in the country the man to whom I go to ask how people are thinking and what they are feeling is the tradesman. It would be a great pity if we ever have that state of mind that only those who have been to a university have the capacity to understand. We would desert, in my view, one of the great traditions of this country and that is that those who work with their hands also work for this country and that those who work with their hands and their minds work very much in its cause. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have an amendment to clause 13. That clause reads: 
The financial assistance to a State constituted by a payment of moneys under section 12, is granted on the conditions that- 
the moneys will, as soon as practicable but not later than 6 months after the end of the financial year in which the payment is made, be applied by the State or by instrumentalities of the State ibr the purpose of meeting recurrent expenditure in connexion with the provision of technical and further education at institutions of technical and further education in that State; 
the State will furnish to the Minister, within a period of 6 months after the end of the financial year in which the payment is made, a certificate of an authorized person to the effect that the person has satisfied himself that the moneys have been applied in accordance with paragraph ( a); 
the State will cause to be furnished to the Minister within a period of 6 months after the end of the financial year in which the payment is made, such statistical and other information as the Minister requires in respect of the provision of technical and further education in that State during that financial year; and 
d ) if the Minister informs the Treasurer of the State that he is satisfied that a condition applicable under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) in relation to the payment has not been fulfilled, the State will repay to Australia such sum as the Minister determines, being a sum not exceeding the amount of the payment. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (c). 
I will tell the Committee and in particular the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  why the Opposition has moved this amendment There is a very considerable resentment held by administrators in the States regarding the duplication of information. I can give a quick illustration of this. I am informed that one State Government spent some $700,000 collecting information regarding roads which was requested by the Commonwealth Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I will not argue the merits of the proposal because that would be inappropriate but I do question the wisdom of and the need for this search for information by the Commonwealth. To say that it is a parallel system, of course, is nonsense. To say that it is not vexatious is to take a very unreal view of things. 
I suggest to the Minister that the Bill as an Act would not suffer in its operation by having this provision left out. I am quite sure that if the Minister were to write to any of his colleagues in the States, no matter what their kidney of politics may be, and to ask for information regarding technical education, as a matter of plain courtesy the information would be given. For the life of me I do not know why we have this fixation about putting into statutes of this Parliament provisions of this character. I hope the Minister will reflect upon this paragraph and that I can persuade him to abandon it and accept the view that it will not help the efficient operation of the Bill. On the contrary, it will engender ill-will where there is no ground for ill-will to exist. 
I do not want to seek to refute in particular the indulgence in hyperbole of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  but I am bound to say of the honourable gentleman that he takes a rather fanciful view of the States Grants (Schools) Act when he contends that that stands on all fours with this legislation. It is perfectly true that the honourable gentleman can find in that Act one or two provisions which would be comparable with the provisions in this Bill but I invite the honourable gentleman to seek to disturb my proposition that in this Bill there are no fewer than 43 such discretions. Never ever before has there been put in one Bill passed through this Parliament such a multitude, such a plenitude, of ministerial discretions. I thought for one moment that I had the honourable gentleman - 
I concede that point, and I am about to come to that. I was about to say that the honourable gentleman sought to excoriate me, but that would be a form of activity I know the honourable gentleman could never bring himself to perform on me. The honourable gentleman sought to chastise me with respect to recurrent grants and I thought: 'At long last you have got him; you have persuaded him'. The honourable gentleman very properly said with respect to recurrent grants: 'I have no discretion'. That is perfectly true. That has been substantially my lament through this whole debate. Why should the Minister have discretion with respect to capital grants to minor projects such as the purchase of a lathe for $2,185.20, and no discretion with respect to recurrent grants? 
The point here is a short-one. The Minister has adverted to the fact that he is required to report to Parliament at the end of each year. Really and truly, I think the Minister is indulging in fanciful contention when he asserts that if he did not have this information he would be placed in an impoverished position with respect to the furnishing of his report. The Minister has said he has only had one communication from the States as far as this Bill is concerned. I am not going to deny that because I am not in a position to deny it. But I do say that I took it upon myself - 
That is perfectly true. The amendment which the Minister proposes to move to one of the schedules deals with precisely that point where the $ 18.8m comes in. I will be making an observation there with respect to capital expenditure. The Minister was kind enough to hand to me earlier this evening a report which one might call the Richardson report which is redolent of days gone by. The Minister may recall that. I will be seeking to make some observations with respect to capital grants. I am not going to take the view that I can be dogmatic about this point. 
I think the Minister will have to experience the sense of resentment of the States when they are asked for a lot of information. It takes a great deal of time and a great deal of money to provide such information. I gave to the Committee earlier this evening an example of such costs. It cost one State $700,000 to provide information to the Minister. That was deeply resented by the State. I may be wrong but I am not prepared to capitulate at this stage. I am quite sure that in 12 months time the Minister could well come along and say to me, in that alluring, disarming way: 'Killen, I am sorry. I was wrong and you were right'. 
Question put: 
That the paragraph proposed to be omitted  (Mr Killen's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the amendment moved by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  but I take this opportunity to ask the Minister whether he could give the Committee any information as to what timetable the Government will seek to observe regarding recommendation No. (3) made by the Richardson Committee, that is, the recommendation dealing with capital expenditure. Very briefly the Committee makes this observation: 
In company with the Commission on Advanced Education and the Schools Commission the ACOTAFE - 
This is the intellectual besieging to which we have succumbed- everying must be in the form of initials. ACOTAFE stands for the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. The observation continues: 
. sees benefit in adopting the procedure developed by the Universities Commission for adjusting capital grants to take account of cost movements. 
Then the Committee makes a recommendation. I wish to give my friend one illustration of the predicament that a number of the States are in. I take New South Wales. Under the Kangan Committee 's recommendation $ 17.9m was to have been spent for capital purposes for the 18 months from July 1974 to December 1975. In general terms that is at a rate of $ 12m a year. The Bill provides in the schedule $ 14.4m for capital works during a period of 2 years, that is, at the rate of some $7m a year. 
I do not wish to embarrass the honourable gentleman at all, but the fact is that building costs have increased enormously. This is a fact which is being met by the States with a shuffling sense of embarrassment. They do not know exactly how far ahead they can plan. I am quite sure the honourable gentleman will appreciate the predicament into which many of the States are thrust. The recommendation which has been made in the Richardson Committee's report is, as far as the Opposition is concerned, a welcome one. I only hope that its implementation will be found possible and practical in a very short time. 
I am sorry that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has not found it possible to indicate that the Parliament could be invited within the next 6 months or 12 months to consider the recommendations made by the Committee. My criticism was not made in any captious fashion. I took what the schedule to the Bill states. It may be with the discipline of the lawyer but I took what the paper says and not what anybody else says. According to the schedule to the Bill 2 capital grants are to be made to New South Wales in the period covered by this Bill. For major building projects $9.6m will be made available and $4.7m will be made available for minor building projects- a total of $ 14.9m. I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that comparing that with what was recommended by the Kangan Committee is not valid. The Minister may well be able to impeach the activity of the New South Wales Government, although I am assured by my colleagues in that State that the view taken on such matters by the Minister does not necessarily coincide with the view taken by the Minister for Education in New South Wales. 
That is the Minister's contention. I have not heard evidence from both sides. I have heard the evidence coming from the Minister. 
Is this the report that you handed to me this afternoon? 
With respect, I thought that we were doing it in an eminently proper parliamentary fashion. I am not heated about the matter and the Minister is not heated about it at all. I have made my point. I am sure that the Minister will see that there is a difference between what is in the Schedule to the Bill and what was in the Kangan Committee's recommendation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Beazley)-  by leaveread a third time. 
I agree with the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  that this is a very significant Bill. By the same token I could observe, I think reasonably, that it is not the sort of Bill that would rouse the spirit of Watt Tyler and touch off another peasant's revolt. Indeed yesterday at the Brisbane Cricket Ground- commonly called the Gabba- the tumult that occurred in the outer could hardly be put down to cries about the Arbitration (Foreign Awards and Agreements) Bill. Certainly some advice was tendered to those people who came to this country from another country but, as 1 found out, that was not the cause of the tumult. Whatever the degree of importance that I may have attached to this Bill, it was certainly not shared by that great concourse of people gathered at the Gabba yesterday tendering advice, ranging from wildly sympathetic in nature to frankly hostile in character. But that does not diminish the importance of the Bill. 
It is interesting to reflect, as the Minister has observed, that we have spent a great deal of time seeking to get accession by this country to a Convention that took a great deal of pioneering. It is more than 50 years ago that the first Geneva Convention dealing with arbitration awards was signed. At that time this country had virtually no international personality whatsoever. It is further interesting to reflect on just that one fact- the extraordinary way in which this country has developed its international personality. When this measure was being discussed in the Senate the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  had occasion to cite a legal opinion given by a Solicitor-General- the present honourable and learned member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)-to  the effect that the Bill indicating Australian accession to the Convention was within power. I should like to say two things about that opinion which was expressed. In the first place, I would respectfully agree with it; but in the second place I would express mild regret that the Attorney-General cited the opinion of the Solicitor-General. Any opinion given by an Attorney-General in this Parliament is his opinion and it does not stand on any different footing from the advice tendered by the head of the honourable gentleman's Department. If he gives that advice to this Parliament, then the Minister adopts the opinion. It may be a little old fashioned but it is the sort of thing that I think should be respected. 
It is of further interest to recall that when the Australian Constitution was passing through the British Parliament and the external affairs power was under discussion in the House of Lords, the Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, the Earl of Selborne, said: 'I want to assure my noble lords that the existence of this provision'- that is the external affairs provision- 'does not indicate that Australia will ever have a paraphernalia of ambassadors and consuls separate from the British Empire.' Of course, as we now know, the observation and resolution of today is not the accomplishment of tomorrow, and this was very much the case with respect to the development of international personality by Australia. 
May I just say a word or two about the arbitration process, because this is substantially a common law country. Arbitration was not accepted with favour by the common law. It was known to the Roman law, to the old Germanic law and it was known to canon law, but the common law never looked with favour upon arbitration. 
-Exactly. Indeed, no greater common lawyer than Lord Coke, I think in 1609, held out the doctrine that an arbitration clause put into an agreement was revocable at will, and it was not until virtually the end of the 19th century that that was cured, that that doctrine was extinguished by dint of statute. 
Dealing with this Convention itself, I instance the Geneva Convention of 1923, which was supplemented in 1927. But the wider approach to the International Convention on Arbitration was not pioneered until 1951 at a conference in Lisbon. I think the Convention eventually fell open for signature in about 1958. It has taken a long day, as the Minister has said, and it is a classic illustration of the fact that the wheels do move slowly and rather tortuously. This is a measure which I believe can be accepted with a sense of quiet pride. I suppose we should blush a little that it has taken us so long to sign. I do not think it was until 1970 that the United States of America signed it, and here it is some 16 years after the convention fell open for signature that we in this country have signed it. On behalf of the Opposition I indicate - 
Debate interrupted. 
I was going to conclude by saying, on behalf of the Opposition, that I support this measure. I return to the point at which I began. Certainly it will not cause a fever of excitement up and down the country, but it is yet another step towards the building up of that international community whereby men seek to settle their arguments in a peaceful way, where arbitrament by force is abandoned, and the conference table and the adjudication of the arbitrator are accepted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - Mr Speaker, my queston is addressed to you. It concerns the honourable member for Mackellar. I ask you,  Sir, whether  you will reconsider the circumstances under which the honourable gentleman was suspended from the service of this House, and in particular the non-observance of the parliamentary convention that when a person has transgressed against the Standing Orders of this House an opportunity is afforded to him to apologise before being suspended. I ask you further,  Sir, whether  you will consider reporting to the House when you have reflected upon the circumstances and, if need be, using your authority to facilitate a debate on the matter in this House. Finally,  Mr Speaker,  may I ask you whether you will accept my assurance that, whereas the honourable member for Mackellar seeks nothing but justice for himself in this matter I, in the final result, ask you whether you will entertain on his behalf clemency for Christmas. 
I address to the Prime Minister a question concerning the appointment of  Mr Lionel  Keith Murphy, a Queen's Counsel, to the High Court of Australia. Did  Mr Murphy  volunteer to the honourable gentleman that he would not sit judicially on any matters on which he had sat legislatively? If the honourable gentleman, who has since left this Parliament, did not so volunteer, did the Prime Minister request of him an undertaking to that effect? If no request was made, can the Prime Minister say what his expectation on the issue is? 
-The Electoral Bill 1974 has been described by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is in charge of it, as a Bill which relates to electoral reform. The Minister has a remarkable command of euphemism but he reached dizzy heights when he described this Bill as a Bill relating to electoral reform. The honourable gentleman has reached a new zone of accomplishment. At least I suppose one could and should congratulate him on that achievement, and I do so. It is a most extraordinary Bill and it is introduced at a most extraordinary time. The Australian economy is lurching towards disaster and more than 300 000 people are out of work. But what is the Government's response? It introduces a Bill relating to electoral reform. In point of fact this 
Bill represents one of the most significant attacks ever made upon the rights and liberties of individuals, parties and bodies. Honourable members should not be taken in by the smiling, cheerful, cavalier countenance of the Minister for Services and Property because behind that countenance there lurks the spirit of Tammany Hall. A close examination of the Bill will confirm in each and every particular the assertion I make of it. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has just delivered a second reading speech relating to racial discrimination. This Electoral Bill is a violent expression of discrimination. The Australian Labor Party is fond of prattling about rights guided steadily, it states, by the stern philosophy that there should be a minimum invasion of privacy, yet embodied in this Bill, which seeks to amend the Electoral Act, is a savage, singular and sweeping invasion of privacy. Of course the philosophy of the Party to which the Minister for Services and Property belongs is to achieve complete control. When he displays that insouciance of manner what, in effect, that really is is a resolution to do everything possible to confirm the Labor Party in power. That is the objective to which his every endeavour is directed. 
I would find it difficult to describe appropriately and in proper and fitting language what the Bill would achieve if it were implemented. However I propose to look at some of the provisions in the hope of encouraging some Government supporters opposite to abandon the Bill because I am sure that when they realise precisely what is in it many of them may be persuaded to have second thoughts, although, speaking for myself, I feel that for some honourable members opposite to have primary thoughts is a rather elaborate process and for them to have second thoughts almost an impossibility. In summary, what does this Bill seek to do? It seeks to require all candidates for Parliament to disclose from what sources they receive financial support. It also requires all political parties to disclose from what sources they receive support. At first blush this may seem to be a quite unexceptional provision and objective but the way the Minister and the Government seek to go about this can be described only as unbelievable. The Minister in his second reading speech said, in effect: 'We believe that all people should be equal in the matter of election contest'. As he said it, that is a quite unexceptional sentiment but in point of fact what he is saying is: 'Oh, yes, we are all for equality provided that we remain in front'. I have never seen, and I doubt very much if the Australian nation has ever seen, such an incredible Niagara of expenditure by any government on public relations- the glossy paper, the celluloid and cartloads of literature week after week are deluging the tables of members and the Press Gallery. The Government now seeks not merely to confirm that, but to entrench it. 
Let me turn to some of the more extraordinary provisions of the Bill. Electoral expenditure is defined in the definition provision- I hope honourable gentlemen will listen to this- as meaning: 
Expenditure for or in connection with promoting or opposing, directly or indirectly, a party or the election of a candidate or candidates or of influencing, directly or indirectly, the voting at an election. 
The clause goes on to give a couple of exceptions. Electoral expenditure ' does not include: 
Expenditure for the purchase of electoral rolls; 
That is just persiflage. It does not include: 
Reasonable personal living and travelling expenses of a candidate; 
Is the Minister serious about this? Who determines what are reasonable living expenses? Will the Minister determine it? Am I to be awakened at 2 a.m. by a knock at the door and go out to see the smiling, insinuating face of the Minister? I could ask him what he was about and he could say: 'Good morning, I have come to see the style in which you are living because I believe you are living in an unreasonable fashion.' Then the Minister could say: 'Here is my warrant, this is my authority'. He could point to section 145 of the Electoral Act and say: 'There it is; you know I can come in. ' So he could come inside and say: Where is the refrigerator?' I might say to him: What do you want to do there?' He could go to the refrigerator and say: 'What is all this meat doing here?' I could reply that the meat was not for me. He could ask: 'Who is the meat for?' I might answer: 'The meat happens to be for the Great Dane dog'. Under this Bill, the onus of proof would be on the Great Dane dog and not upon me. The honourable gentleman could say: Where is your laundry account?' I would say: Really and truly I only have my suits pressed every other week and I do not resort to dry cleaning very much'. The Minister could say: 'You can have them pressed only once a week or once every 10 days'. Really and truly, what does the Minister think he is about by putting in such an inane, stupid, needless, irritating provision in the Electoral Act? Then he could say: 'Where is the grocer's account?' I suppose I would have to find the grocer's account and show it to him. He might say that I was indulging myself too much in the matter of living because there was too much tinned fruit on the grocery account. 'Eat  more camp pie' the Minister might say, 'so that we can help the Country Party', his solicitude for the Country Party and the beef industry being so well known to us all. 
Who is to determine this? Is the Minister going to determine it? I suppose the Minister would be pursuing a more profitable occupation if he were to engage in that sort of activity than he does when he engages in this sort of activity. Is the Chief Electoral Officer to do it? Am I to stand in contemplation of  Mr Frank  Ley- he would always be welcome- coming into my home? He would not come at such an outrageous hour in the morning, because he would have a finer instinct for the proprieties of life. But I am a little doubtful about the Minister. Or would it be the Chief Electoral Officer for Queensland or one of the agents. What the Minister would have to do in order to police this, would be to set up an entirely new government department. 
-Without doubt we would get a fragrance of conversation if that happened. The Minister gives no explanation for this provision but, beyond that, it does not apply merely to members of Parliament, it applies to any candidate. What of the position of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at election time? He is a candidate within the meaning of this Bill. Would the Minister seriously assert that it would constitute reasonable travelling expenses' for the Prime Minister to go around the country in a Mystere aircraft or in a BACIII? Is that reasonable? Again, who determines it and by what process is it determined? It is idiocy and it is a pretty fair indication of the palseyed  hand of socialism. That is the idiocy of the Bill. Another provision in the Bill states: 
A person (other than a registered party agent or an official agent) who incurs any electoral expenditure without the prior written authority of a registered party agent or of an official agent, is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction 
In the case of a person being a party or a body corporateby a fine not exceeding $20,000; or 
In any other case- by a fine not exceeding $10,000. 
May I briefly explain the way this scheme works? Every candidate for Parliament is to have an agent. The agent has to be registered and his name appear on a register. This is a splendid opportunity for Parkinson's law yet to vindicate itself once more. The register would be drawn up and no doubt the agents would have their identity cards and everything would be available. If a person wishes to give money to a candidate- I will deal with the candidate first- he must first of  all get the written approval of the agent. A person cannot out of any sense of spontaneity or of political allegiance say: 'Well, I donate X dollars towards the campaign'. He must get written approval. Privacy and liberty of the individual! Tut, tut; what humbug comes from the Minister. But after having done this, if the requirement is infringed in any way the person is punishable by a fine of $10,000. But take the case of a corporation or a body that is not incorporated, for example, a trade union movement, or, if honourable members like, the Australian Teachers Federation. If it wishes to place an advertisement in a newspaper arguing one way or another in support of a particular candidate or in support of a particular party or concerning the outcome of a referendum it cannot do it. Just think,  Mr Minister,  the bodies that come under the umbrella of that provision. Not one trade union would be at liberty to support the Australian Labor Party. Not one trade union would be at liberty to wage any point of view on the outcome of an election or of a referendum. Has the Minister thought his way through that? Take the case, and I do not argue the merits of it, of the last referendum campaign which dealt with prices and incomes. A very old and one of the finest industrial organisations in this country, the Toowoomba Foundry, which has employed generations of people, father and son, took a specific attitude towards the referendum question. Surely it is its right in a democratic society so to do. It placed its advertisements in newspapers throughout Australia. Under this proposed law, it would not be at liberty to do so and could be punished by a fine of $20,000. Does the Minister persist in seeking to put this sort of provision upon the statute book? 
Let me take as a further example another organisation, the Institute of Public Affairs in Victoria. Honourable members may agree or disagree with the sentiments that that most erstwhile organisation expresses in its various journals. If that organisation places an advertisement in a newspaper which may either directly or indirectly affect the outcome of the election, too bad; a fine is imposed. The Minister has chosen these words 'either directly and indirectly' as a matter of conscious intent. This is the language chosen by him. He has not stumbled upon it. One wonders indeed why any government would have such a fierce insistence to invade the fabric of our society in this fashion. 
Let me move on to give some further illustrations of what I would describe as the clear erraticism in the Bill. There are various categories of electoral expenditure, I remind the House; indeed, there are 5 categories of electoral expenditure. If a Senate election is being held, the organisation is entitled to spend only 1.5c upon each person living in the State. But if a general election for the House of Representatives is being held each candidate in a division is entitled to spend 7.5c. So far so clear. If a Senate election and a House of Representatives election are being held together, one can still spend 1.5c per person living in the State on the Senate but one can spend only 6c in respect of the House of Representatives election. As a matter of simple logic, what is the explanation for this variation? Possibly the Minister, in his familiar urbane way, will tell us when he replies. If a double dissolution is held, the rate of Senate expenditure increases to 2.5c and the amount permissible in respect of the House of Representatives rises to 7.5c. If a referendum is being held, the allowable expenditure is lc per person in each State. No explanation is given by the Minister as to why he has hit upon these provisions at all. Why 1.5c? Is that reasonable? By what yardstick is it determined? I would have expected of the Minister some explanation. We have heard from him precisely nothing on the point. 
Let me give another illustration of the curiosity of the Bill. Charity is invading me a little now; I am getting frightened. I refer to proposed section 149 which provides: 
A candidate, official agent or registered party agent shall not incur or authorise any electoral expenditure in relation to an election, other than expenditure Tor or in connection with - 
Various provisions are set out including advertising, broadcasting and televising, publishing, stationery, committee rooms and public meeting places. It so happens that in years gone by in my electorate, I have had in support of me what is known as the Slacks Creek Bushrangers Band made up of a couple of mouth organs, a couple of piano accordions, a triangle and a few gum leaves. Under this provision if that band played for me, it could be fined $20,000 if it was incorporated, which it is not. If I in any way condoned its actions, I could be fined $10,000. The Bill simply makes no provision for something like a band. 
Let me go a little further to illustrate the absurdity of this legislation. Under proposed section 152- and I am grateful that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  is following me - 
-That may well be, but the only time when the Minister would be in front is when 
I am crossing him. In proposed section 152, it is provided that gifts shall not be made by a candidate for an election to or for the benefit of any club or other association within 3 months before the day next following the day fixed for the polling for the election. Let us take the last election which was held in May 1 974. The date when that election would be held was not known. One could say with some reasonableness that we live in some measure of uncertainty today with respect to elections. Does the Minister mean to say by this provision that if I had given a ludo set to an organisation within the prescribed period, I would be fined in terms of this provision? What is the defence? It is a defence to a prosecution - 
Well, the honourable gentleman at least would be able to arrange the dice. Under this provision, it would be a defence to a prosecution that when I made the offer, promise or gift the date of polling had not been fixed. But look at the rigmarole that has to be gone through. There would be a prima facie case for prosecution. The prosecution would be launched. The defence would have to be made. Paper work would be required. This would be followed by an appearance at court before the magistrate. I take it that this offence is dealt with summarily. The person concerned and his legal representatives would have to go along to the court. The onus is on the individual to say: 'Look, I just did not know. ' But the Minister who is in charge of electoral matters and who would have a hand in fixing the election date in such an instance may know that date.  Mr Minister,  it is needless to have this sort of odd provision within this Bill. 
I turn next to gifts which may be made to a person. Let me say this, and I hope that I am not infringing good taste: It so happens that the mother of a person on the staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  sent to me from Tasmania a jar of marmalade jam. Under the terms of this Bill, I stand in prospect of conviction. This is the incredible feature about it. But this is par for the course. 
I have not tasted the jam but the honourable member would be welcome to share it with me. 
The sugar industry is about the only industry that this Government has not ruined so far. It so happens that people do make donations to political parties. 
-Yes, they do. I would like to tell the honourable member for Bowman something about the multinational support with which I have met. During the last federal election campaign an elderly lady- a pensioner- raffled one dozen fresh farm eggs and made $25. 1 was humble indeed when the $25 was passed over to my campaign committee. Under this Bill that little old lady would have to go along and get the written approval of my agent before she could do that. 
That is right. That is the basis upon which the Government is proceeding. It wants to control, regulate, register, direct and guide as much as it can. Let me go further. If a Party receives money from any organisation, any company or any individual away from an election it will have to pay that money into a separate account. That is completely unreal because all political parties in our society are alike in that their expenditure is a continuing process. They have running expenses. It is very rarely that a party allocates a fixed sum for a particular election campaign. Indeed, there have been so many elections in recent times that most parties, with the notable exception of the Australian Labor Party, are impoverished. The Labor Party calls upon its wealthy friends- the Marrickville Margarine group- to help it. It should not be thought by the Minister that we of the Opposition sit here not knowing the time of day. Under this provision, of course, that money must be paid into a separate account and if any of it is used for any other purpose- if it is used for an election- it will be an infringement of the legislation and the agent or person within the party who may be responsible for it could face the prospect of a fine. 
Then, of course, there is the quite extraordinary provision that, with respect to the register, there must be a return of gifts authorised by the agent filed within 12 months after the day fixed for the polling. He has to authorise in advance before he can receive anything. He has to make a list of them and he has to vouch for them in a particular fashion. As the provision in the Bill provides, he will have to lodge a return in the form prescribed. Not only will he have to do that but also the accounts will have to be audited. He will have to go out to an auditor and get the certificate of that auditor. That may be all right in the case of very large political parties- the Aus.tralian Country Party, the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Labor Party. However, what would be the position of a person who feels a particular grievance on some issue at some time and who wants to run for Parliament? It is the right of any person to stand for Parliament. It is the right of any group of individuals to say: 'We believe that there is a cause to fight and we believe that there is a cause to be argued and therefore we propose to contest the next election by putting forward candidates for either the House of Representatives or the Senate'. Such an organisation would have to go through all the rigmarole of appointing an agent before it could get into the field to authorise any donations which may be given to that body. It might become quite an ephemeral body and disappear after the election campaign. At the end of it all it would have to go and have aU of its proceedings audited. 
The names and addresses of every person concerned must be shown. That is plainly in terrorem because the fact of the matter is that many people simply do not want to have their names made known. The Minister's Party is supported by companies and individuals who, for eminently sound reasons, do not want their names to be made known. I have known of an occasion when a cheque forwarded to the Labor Party has arrived at the offices of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party has received the Liberal Party's cheque. The difference in favour of the Labor Party was quite substantial. It rather hurt us to have to send it back. Why does the Minister resort to this extraordinary form of mechanism to regulate and to control? He set out by describing it as a Bill to reform the electoral system. I for my part conclude where I began: This Bill represents a clear, savage and emphatic blow against the whole structure of democratic society in this country. I can assure the Minister that it Will be opposed by the Opposition with all its force and in every forum. 
-This is a Bill for a referendum. I suppose the first observation that should be made about it is that it is passing strange that, just eight or nine months after the Parliament faced the people and 4 referendums were put to the people, we are now being invited to consider another one. I take the view that it is imposing somewhat upon the patience of the Australian people to have yet another referendum thrust upon them. 
My honourable friend from Hunter says: 'An election, too. ' That is one of the splendid speculations that surround us at the moment. Whether the honourable gentleman will be vindicated or not, only time will tell. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the course of his prime ministership has sought to establish a reputation in the country as a constitutional reformer. I do not seek to adjudicate on whether or not that record has been well founded but I would say that I do share with him an anxiety to see proper constitutional reform. Indeed, some 18 months ago there were gathered in the city of Sydney representatives from every Parliament in Australia at a Constitutional Convention, when people sought to consider what were the deficiencies within the Australian Constitution having regard to the times in which we live. From that Convention various committees were set up and each committee was given various fields of activity to consider. 
In tracing the narrative of events, we then come to the double dissolution of Parliament of April of last year and the May election. To my astonishment the Prime Minister persisted and put to the Australian people 4 referendums in areas into which the various constitutional subcommittees were already locking. Surely it would have been in accord with common sense, quite apart from any considerations of nicety or of propriety of manner, to have waited for the reports of the various sub-committees. But that was not done. Of the 4 referendums put to the people contemparaneous with the general election was one referendum described as one to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections. To read the title of the 
Bill is to encourage a sentiment of support because at first blush it appears as though there is very considerable merit to have an election for the House of Representatives and an election for the Senate held at the one and the same time. 
Having said that, let me say that I would express the view that the Prime Minister's anxiety to go about constitutional reform and the manner in which he has sought to prosecute what I regard as being strongly held convictions have been in the ultimate resulted in setting back genuine constitutional reform in this country by 20 to 25 years. There is a very real measure of concern in Australia today- not always articulatedregarding what is the future of the Com.momwealth Constitution. Now we are being asked to consider this Bill for a referendum- a referendum that was rejected at the election some 9 months ago. But I will say something of that later. 
May I invite my friend the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to agree with me that we have our priorities with respect to constitutional reform dead wrong? We are now seeking to bring into being a proposal- I put to one side the merit of it- that, if this House goes to the people, half of the Senate must go to the people. At the same time we have in our Constitution a complete gap relating, for example, to the control of nuclear power in Australia. In the course of recent weeks- recent weeks, mark you- various State Premiers have sought to give expression to their views as to what should be done regarding the establishment of nuclear power stations in Australia. The fact of life is that there is a grey area of doubt as to where this power rests. Does it rest entirely with the Commonwealth? If so, under what head of power? Is it a power which resides with the States, even though unexpressed? It may be true that the Commonwealth, by dint of signing an international convention relating to nuclear power in some form or another and the control of nuclear waste, would be able to assume a clear responsibility in this field. But I mention this as one which seems to me to have a towering sense of priority. Yet, compared with that, we are invited by the Government to busy ourselves with, and to approve a Bill for, a referendum relating to the simultaneous holding of elections for this House and for the Senate. 
The Government certainly deserves a prize for persistence. The Prime Minister deserves a prize for persistence. Eight or nine months ago the proposal was defeated at the polls, and he comes back and says: 'We are going to try again.' I looked at his speech, with my customary charity, and was tremendously impressed with what he had to say. I formed the view that his argument is a classic illustration of sophistry. When he presented this Bill for the second time to this House the Prime Minister said: 
The proposal - 
He was speaking of the proposal relating to the referendum-  failed only narrowly to obtain an overall majority of yes votes. Over 3V4 million voters endorsed the proposed law and slightly less than 3% million voted no. The proposed law received a majority of yes votes in the most populous State New South Wales and was only narrowly lost m Victoria and South Australia. The proposal is clearly one that has great appeal to the electorate. My Government is of the view that it is of such importance and merit that it should again be put to the people. 
What yardstick is the honourable gentleman prepared to accept that the people have in fact rejected the proposal? I would find life a most accommodating business if every time I backed a horse of my selection which failed, albeit narrowly and in a photo finish, I were to present the ticket to the bookmaker, ask him for his indulgence and say to him: 'This horse ran with very considerable merit indeed. It failed narrowly, Will you please meet this?' 
That is very true. I know of some horses which, if they were to be sent over a 6 furlong journey, would give the impression of running on. One tries them then over a mile and they fail. One could send some from here to Coonabarabran and they would still be running on at that distance. They never quite get up. That is approximately the position with respect to referendums in this country. Let me illustrate, for example, my own State of Queensland which has 18 Federal electorates. This proposal was resoundingly defeated in 16 of them. The Prime Minister says of the people of Queensland in the May election of 1974 that it was a substantial aberration of intellect that drove them to reject what he describes as meritorious proposals. Failed narrowly! By jove, would not the Government like to be able to say that it won 16 seats in Queensland at a general election? But the melancholy fact for it with respect to this proposal is that it was defeated. Five States voted against it; one State voted for it. What basis or what character of logic is it that has driven the Government persistently and obstinately towards embracing this argument: 'Well, it had merit; we only just missed out; we will keep on trying "? The spirit of Robert Bruce is a spirit I can admire deeply. But obstinacy which degenerates into the stage of not being able to accept the expression of opinion is no longer to be dignified as obstinacy; it is to be characterised as stupidity. 
Beyond that, one goes to the description of the proposal put to the Australian people last time. I would hesitate to describe it in what would seem to me to be proper language because that may give offence to the forms of this House, but it was a form of description which was not accurate. The proposal was one described by the authors of the Bill as Constitutional Alteration (Simultaneous Elections). The majority of people reading the proposal upon which they were asked to vote would look at it and say: ' Well, there is very considerable merit in this, having both of the Houses of Parliament elected at the same time', little realising, of course, that the proposal to be put into the Constitution related to almost a hideously confused set of provisions. For myself, I acknowledge my own limitations in this matter. But I would hardly describe the proposals which have been presented to us as representing the quintessence of clarity. I have no doubt that many of the provisions, if enacted into law- law in the sense that they became part of the Australian Constitution- would lead to very, very considerable litigation and confusion. 
There is one fascinating feature in the Bill to which I draw the attention of the AttorneyGeneral and I know that he, being such a responsive soul, will give us the benefit of his advice. Ironically, part of this Bill deals with the matter of casual vacancies. If this Bill became an Act and were submitted to the Australian people and the proposal were affirmed there would be a new form of control over casual vacancies. If I were in the shoes of the Attorney-General I would think this was a thunderingly appropriate time to do something about casual vacancies. May I invite the honourable and learned gentleman to amend clause 5 of the Bill, dealing with section 1 5 of the Act, on the matter of casual vacancies. I think that this would be a splendid way of showing the country the bona fides protested by the Government. Having said that, may I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Why is it that the Government has plucked this particular referendum proposal from the cluster of 4 proposals put to the people? What splendid form of virtue does this proposal command that the 3 other proposals do not have? Why is this so distinctive? There has not been one syllable of explanation which has fallen from the Prime Minister during the course of his speech as to why that is the case. 
I turn to what I would regard as being the nub of this problem. The argument advanced by the Government for the acceptance of this Bill for its passage, the argument which the Government advanced during the course of the referendum campaign as to why the Australian people should approve of the proposal, was an argument in both instances based entirely upon convenience. It is convenient, said the Government, for the people to vote for the Senate at the same time as they vote for the House of Representatives. I concede that there is a distinct plausibility about that argument. But it is an argument which is on analysis pretty hollow and it is readily tested. No reference has been made by any Government apologist for this measure concerning the relationship between the 2 houses. The relationship between this House and the Senate is of vital consideration. 
I have never apologised for the view I have taken as to the character of the House of Representatives. But to fail to acknowledge that the Senate has a character quite different from this is to ignore one of the facts of constitutional life. The Senate is not controlled by this House, and this House should not be controlled by the Senate, save for and except in accordance with section 57 of the Constitution. No other section of the Constitution attracted as much attention during the convention debates of the 1890s as did section 57. The deal- let us face it- was simply this: Some of the colonies were not prepared to enter into the Federation unless their position was safeguarded. We would be a little unreal today to imagine that that conviction held in the 1 890s has been suffocated in the 1 970s. 
If I may indulge myself in a personal observation,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would express an opinion on the point. I think that there is a greater sensitivity today in the States, no matter what kidney of government may preside over them, concerning their respective positions than there was in the 1890s held by the colonies as they then were-they did not become States until they entered the Federation. Those of us who sit here in the Federal Parliament have to accept that. We cannot laugh it off. The views expressed by our colleagues m the States are views that must be taken into account and must be respected where appropriate and there must be candour in the conduct of all observations. That seems to me to be a pretty reasonable charter in the running of a Federation. But here the real reason is not put. The real reason, of course, appears to be mat if this House, for some reason or other, goes to the country it would be a matter of convenience to take the Senate with it. That would disturb the relationship of this House to the Senate and that is the principal ground upon which the Opposition as presently minded bases its objection to the Bill. 
I would sum up- and I will endeavour to do so as crisply as possible- by saying that we are curious as to why this measure has been introduced at this time. There is no clamour for it in the streets. I would assure my friend, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  that I have not detected anything of the spirit of revolution in the country upon this issue. At the Doomben races in Brisbane on Saturday I was not accosted and directed that I should expend my energies and enterprise and what initiative I may have on seeking to bring enlightenment to the Parliament upon this issue. There was a great silence upon the issue. Beyond that, we are apprehensive as to why the Prime Minister, the Government, has plucked out this measure from what I have described as the cluster of referendum proposals. Finally, we believe on our present consideration of the measure that it seeks to disturb the relationship between this House and the Senate and to ignore some of the realities of political life in this country. For those reasons the Opposition will oppose the Bill. 
-The House turns to consider probably one of the most historic Bills ever introduced into this Parliament. One may readily concede that it is a Bill that has barely encouraged a murmur either of comment, criticism or indeed praise in the Australian community but nevertheless it is a most historic Bill. It represents one of the conspicuous legislative moves by any Government in the matter of the links of this country with the United Kingdom. This Bill seeks to remove in terms of Australia, and I speak of the Commonwealth of Australia, the last vestige of judicial association with the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council and one would be lacking in a sense of history not to acknowledge that this is a very great occasion. I mention it not to display any fierce sense of nostalgia. I mention it nevertheless to remind myself and I hope others that this is a very great historic occasion. 
When the First Fleet arrived in Australia the common law of England arrived in the country. We sit in a parliament which is the greatest creation of the Anglo-Saxon mind- the parliamentary system- and even though there may be some bold spirits who take the view that the parliamentary institution has no continuing sense of purpose, that it is unresponsive, that it is irrelevant, the fact remains that the parliamentary institution is the greatest creation of the AngloSaxon mind. I mention that to come to what I would regard as being the second greatest creation and that is the common law. The distinguishing feature of the Englishman, no matter where he has gone in this world, has been that he has taken with him the common law of England. 
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council has played a very great role in seeking to explain and to continue the common law of England. This is for all practical purposes a common law country and this Bill we are discussing this evening represents a break with the link that has existed. It is a significant break and it is a break that we should acknowledge. We are driven inexorably to the conclusion that all of the concatenation of political forces in the last generation has taken us step by step steadily, irresistibly towards the stage where this nation must proclaim, establish, identify and, please God, maintain its own national institutions, its own national characteritistics. To say that is not to contend that we should look lightly at our history. It is in keeping with the mood of the nation, it is in keeping with the great gathering of forces in the world that we do seek to assert our own proper sense of nationalism. I for one find it inviting in terms of contemplation to look a century ahead when the United Kingdom may find itself by that time in some Heath Robinson like federation in Europe- a component in a European federation. I find it strange that this country should in that sense be bound legally to a component in that federation. The federation of Europe is a remarkable movement. I do not seek to attack it in any shape or form other than to observe that it produces in terms of the United Kingdom and in terms of this country the most profound and far reaching of political and constitutional changes. This Bill finishes a movement which was begun some 8 years ago by a distinguished colleague of mine, the then honourable and learned member for Parramatta now the Chief Judge in Equity in New South Wales,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Bowen. Speaking in this House in 1967 at the dispatch box, close now to the elbow of my friend the honourable and learned Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby), His  Honour Justice Bowen in a ministerial statement which was the commencing movement now to be culminated in this Bill said: 
Power to limit the matters in which special leave may be granted by the Privy Council is conferred on the Commonwealth Parliament by section 74 of the Constitution. The 
Government is of the opinion that this power should be exercised so as to make the High Court the final arbiter in all matters of Federal jurisdiction, that is to say, constitutional questions, matters arising under Commonwealth laws and the various other matters which the Constitution has, in sections 75 and 76, specifically recognised as being appropriate matters to be brought in the High Court. 
It is interesting to reflect upon the fact that when the Australian delegation went to the United Kingdom 75 years ago to present to the members of the Imperial Parliament the draft of our Constitution the central point of contention between the Australian delegation and the British authorities surrounded the question of the Privy Council. It was a very great delegation. Great spirits attended it and a great sense of enterprise was in a very real sense the constant companion of those who were there. I hope it would be tolerable on my part to cite the editorial view of a newspaper which has had the longest link with this country- the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. I have not always found myself in happy coincidence of agreement with its editorial views but that for the nonce. When my former learned and distinguished friend  Mr Justice  Bowen spoke in this Parliament the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of Friday, 8 September 1967 observed: 
It is a long time since an Australian Government has deliberately fractured a symbolic bond with the Crown. True, we have moved apart from Britain in other ways: but our leaning to America on defence, to Asia in trade, has been dictated ostensibly by economic and strategic pressures. We have retained the trappings of our British heritage while discarding the bones and sinews. Now perhaps we are to discard the trappings as well. 
That editorial was a foresight of this day. This is the last legal trapping to be discarded. For my part, albeit nostalgically but nevertheless purposefully, I see no other course open to this country. I speak of the country in its corporate sense and not in any jingoistic or partisan sense. I speak of this great Commonwealth of Australia. 
I have adverted to the fact that when our Constitution was presented 75 years ago this was the point of contention, not by our forebears in this country alone but, indeed, principally by those in the United Kingdom. I am wondering whether it may not be a proper occasion to recall something of the character of the argument, if for no other reason than to acknowledge that the argument did exist and to show that there are those today who care about it and who recognise the tremendous sweep of events that has been upon us and has washed upon our institutions and upon our own political thinking. The Australian delegation, on 23 March 1900, consisted of Edmund Barton, Alfred Deakin, James R. Dickson, C. C. Kingston and P. O. Fysh. They prepared a memorandum which expressed their point of view. It is by no means extinguished in this country and probably is more keenly asserted in this country today than it was 75 years ago. The authors of the memorandum said: 
Her Majesty's Judges, Australian as well as British, will ever be men of conspicuous ability and integrity, whose impartiality will not be prejudiced by their domicile- are not English Appeals heard in the House of Lords? 
That was a view put by those 5 members of the delegation. It is a sentiment with which I find myself in handsome agreement today. To those [&gt;eople who may be persuaded that the rule of aw no longer has relevance, who may be invited to succumb to the notion that the courts of law do not represent a bulwark between the caprice of the political practitioner and the liberty of the subject, may I say that that is a notion to which I for my part do not subscribe. I regard the cultivation of proper judicial sentiment as representing the ultimate barrier as far as the liberty of the subject is concerned. I say that without any qualification whatsoever. 
But it was one of the principal arguments put by the delegation to which I have just referred that section 74, which is the present section in our Constitution, should be accepted by the British Parliament as it was presented in draft form. British authority had a contrary view. They did not want to see any trammelling of the right of appeal to the Privy Council. They objected to the prospect that this Commonwealth Parliament could legislate to restrict appeal to the Privy Council, and that was the great area of difference between Barton and Deakin and their colleagues and members in the British Parliament. Indeed, the memorandum of objections of  Her  Majesty's Government to the draft Bill was returned on 29 March 1900, a few days after the memorandum had been presented by the Australian delegation. It was in fact a week later. The British Government went on to make this observation in reply to an assertion by the Australians regarding delay, confusion and uncertainty if the Privy Council were to be regarded as being at all times, for all practical purposes, the ultimate court of appeal: 
To pass this Article - 
That is, Article 74 which is now section 74-  in its present form would be to introduce confusion and uncertainty in a matter in which it is desirable above all others that there should be clearness and certainty. 
The matter did not stop there. The Australian delegation persisted. Its persistence was led notably by Deakin, a most remarkable spirit with not just a sense of history but with a perception regarding the working of the Australian Constitution that I fear that not even the present generations quite understand. Deakin 's activities did not meet with the quiet acceptance of Australian authorities. Indeed, the Governor of the then Colony of Queensland, Lord Lamington, sent to  Mr Chamberlain  in England a cable dated 27 April 1900. 1 mention this just to give an illustration that there is really nothing very new. He sent this cable: 
My Government are astonished at attitude of  Mr Deakin  at Colonial banquet, and they are in favour of inclusion of your amendment re Privy Council in Federation Bill. . . . 
Deakin won out and the section as drafted by the Australian delegation survived. That brings us to our present stage. The greatness, the impeccable approach of the Privy Council is, of course, acknowledged by any person who has had anything to do with the law. I believe that one may make that assertion substantially confident that it will not be assailed. Indeed, I remind the House of the views offered by 2 late Justices of the High Court of Australia. Justices Isaacs and Rich in a very celebrated case observed of the Privy Council: 
All must gladly and gratefully welcome the opportunity of having the final opinion of that illustrious tribunal  . . on all questions of common import. ... On all general questions, including even some questions of a constitutional nature having a general import ... it must be recognised how much the tribunal has of late years done, and is daily doing, to stabilise and harmonise the fundamental law of the Empire, to find and enforce the basic principles of jurisprudence on which modern civilisation rests, and to assist the development of free institutions in the constitutional units of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
That was a very generous reference to the Privy Council and to its work. But, of course, it is true that once the word of Caesar might have stood against the world: now lies he there, and none so poor to do him reverence The British Empire has faded from the scene and the British Commonwealth of Nations has found for itself a rather strange and a rather unidentifiable role in the history of contemporary world society. But the conspicuous feature of what I have described as the Anglo-Saxon mind is that two great achievements- the parliamentary institution and the common law- remain. It was left, I suppose paradoxically, to a great English judge in a rather whimsical fashion to belittle, although he did it in a kindly way, the Privy Council. The story is attributed to one of the founders of the Australian Constitution,  Sir Josiah  Symon, that Lord Westbury one day encountered  Sir William  Earl, the Chief Justice of Common Pleas in London. He said to him: 'Why is it you do not come and sit with us in the Privy Council?' to which  Sir 
William answered: 'I am old and I am deaf and I am stupid,' to which Lord Westbury replied: That is nothing. Chelmsford and I are very old, Napier is deaf and Colville is very stupid. Nevertheless we make a very good court of appeal '. 
This Bill is to be markedly distinguished from another Bill which was offered to be considered cognately. For reasons which I hope become clear later it was a proposal to which on behalf of the Opposition I refused, not out of discourtesy, to respond. This is yet another major step by the Commonwealth of Australia in the march towards complete nationhood. I am sure that no person who has a feel for history and a hope for this nation's institutions will be unmoved by the occasion. We would at the same time be lacking not merely in a sense of realism but also in a sense of understanding not to acknowledge freely that the High Court of Australia has shown itself to be one of the great courts of this world. No person, no man, no woman, can go before that court fearful that justice will not be done. It is a great court. It has been- I hope it will continue to be- manned by men, and indeed by women, of great accomplishment. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the House to explain a question of procedure, or more particularly my own dealings with the 2 Bills before the House. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What tertiary institutions operate in Australia, and what are the present enrolments and staffing at each institution- 
I second the motion. I say at once,  Mr Speaker,  that you have my firm assurance that in no way will I attempt either in substance or, indeed, in a peripheral fashion to deal with the merits of the legislation which is in contemplation before this House. It is not the merit of the legislation to which this House should now attend; it should look at its' own authority. The second reading speech on this Bill was given in this House on Thursday of last week. The Orders of the Day provide for it to pass through all stages by this evening. I repeat: The second reading speech on this Bill was given on Thursday of last week and the Orders of the Day provide for it to pass through all stages by today. 
Without doubt, this is the most substantial piece of legislation that has been introduced in a considerable period of time. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  is thoroughly justified in seeking to make a statement to the House because it would seem perfectly clear that some people in the House need informing of the immensity of the legislation in prospect, of the technicality of it, and of the refusal on the part of the Government to listen to and to analyse submissions made to it by people with interest in it. It has always been a great and traditional habit of this Parliament to seek to observe people who have a point of view on legislation. Of course, ultimately the responsibility of approving or disapproving of legislation rests upon those of us who sit in this chamber. To fail to listen to views is grievous enough, but to fail to listen to views after having given the most specific undertakings to listen to those views I can only describe as manifestly wicked. 
I move from that. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this House today said- not on a matter of legislation so I may advert to it- that governments are formed in this House. That is a proposition with which I find myself in wholehearted agreement. Governments are formed in this House. That is a stronger reason for this House to maintain its own authority. The whisperings of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to the effect that this Bill has been before another place since September last year makes not the slightest impression upon me. 
-On the contrary. I put this to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  who interjects with such readiness: What if the other place, the Senate, had so amended a Bill as to make it completely and utterly different from a Bill that went through this House? I ask the honourable gentleman merely to reflect upon that circumstance. Over a long period of time now, I have seen the authority of this chamber being washed awaydrip by drip, the constant, continuing erosion. Yet today the Attorney-General- the parens pater of the country, the man who should stand and speak to defend the views, the rights and the liberties of every subject in this country without fear and without favour- lends the weight of his eminent office and its authority to such a contemptible move as to expect this House of Parliament to deal with this measure in such a short time. It is a disgrace to Parliament and the sooner the people of the country get an understanding of that fact the better. 
-In dealing with the definitions clause, I invite the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  to consider the last point made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  concerning financial journalists. The definition, as it presently stands, refers to the publishing of information in a newspaper or periodical. Many financial journalists in this country would prepare material and have it published, but it would not be published in a newspaper or a periodical. I refer to information circulated by various people throughout the country. There seems to me to be a need to tidy up the clause- if need be, to broaden the definition a little. 
I also invite the Attorney-General to put into the Bill a definition of a stockbroker. It seems to me to be quite incredible that we are dealing with a Bill relating to the securities industry and there is not a definition of a stockbroker. Possibly my friend the Attorney-General may have some explanation for that. If there is a definition I invite him, if he would be so kind, to refer us to it. I also suggest that the Attorney-General considerif not here, possibly in another place- that the definition of 'securities' should include a reference to unit trusts. It seems to me to be a conspicuous gap that there is no definition of a unit trust, because it represents a considerable field. 
I am speaking of the definitions clause. There seems to be to be a gap there, and we aim to please. If I can find some minor blemish in the Bill I am quite sure that the AttorneyGeneral would not take the slightest exception to my making a suggestion on the point. 
-I want to make one observation. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  said that he did not wish to be abrasive. I think he has brought to the opening of the debate in the Committee stage of this Bill the charm of a dilapidated knackery. It is an impudence on the honourable gentleman's part to say that the attitude of the Opposition in this matter is one of obstruction. Surely to heavens we are entitled to offer some views with respect to the provisions in the Bill. All I asked the honourable gentleman to do was to give an explanation as to why there was not even a definition of 'stock broker' in a Bill of this nature. There was nothing uncivil about the question. It was put to him properly and, I hope, pertinently. The Minister stirred himself to offer an insult. It passes me by, but I just draw his attention to the fact that the question was not put in any ungenerous fashion at all. 
The second question I asked him was why on earth he would not include unit trusts in the definition of 'securities'. Again, that question was not put by way of being tendentious or difficult. The fact that this Bill has been in the Senate for a few months is an utter irrelevancy. Does the Minister suggest that every time a Bill is introduced into the Senate we should sit down, get ourselves sopping wet with anxiety, a towel around the head, go through the Bills introduced in that chamber and then write to him asking him to tidy them up? What an impossible proposition. I do not dignify the attitude of the AttorneyGeneral by describing it as impertinent. I say that his attitude is one of studied impudence. 
-I refer to clause 5 (b). I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  what would be the position if the office of the Commission is open but all other places in that State are shut on a particular day? That could happen if a public holiday is being observed for some reason. Without being dogmatic on the point, that clause does seem to me to be somewhat vague. That is the point I make in relation to clause 5 (b). I have some doubt about it. It may be a doubt founded upon an erroneous belief that there is a gap, a weakness, in the clause as it now stands. 
I also invite the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to consider clause 6 in relation to the matter I have already raised, that is, the need for a definition of the word 'stockbroker'. The Attorney-General has said that no State Act has a definition of the word stockbroker'. The New South Wales Securities Industries Act has a definition of the word 'stockbroker'. If this Bill becomes an Act the Government and those working under the Act will find difficulty right throughout the legislation in this respect. I implore the Attorney-General to abandon the obstinacy that presently possesses him and, in relation to clause 6 and the other clauses ahead of us for consideration, to reconsider earnestly the point I have made. 
-There seems to be a clear error in clause 13. 1 hope that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will listen to my argument on the point. It is a very short one. In the second last line of clause 13 there is use of the word 'member'. The simple fact of life is that the members of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges are the representatives of the 6 capital stock exchanges. The exchanges themselves are not members of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges. I suggest that the defect could be cured if the word 'member' were deleted and the words 'conference exchanges ' put in its stead. 
-I wish to refer to one other clause at which I have had an opportunity of looking while the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has been speaking. I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to look at the implications of clause 14 in relation to clause 111, which relates to the disclosure of interests. For the purposes of my argument let me accept the proposition that there should be complete disclosure. I believe that the old rules of fiduciary relationship should be observed and observed impeccably. There are instances, of course, when people do not observe them, and this is what the Bill seeks to correct. I still take the view that, dishonesty is not to be cured by legislative form. If people do not have a feel and instinct for honour I do not think any library of statutes will cure that. But that is beside the point. 
We reach the absurd position where this clause deals with associated persons- and here it has a relationship to clause 1 1 1- the type of person who must disclose the interest. Let me give one illustration to the honourable gentleman Take the case of a stockbroking firm. One of the partners sends out a circular to people involved in his area of activity. Under this clause, what he would be required to do is to check with all of his relatives and with all of his employees to ask them what they have by way of investment. The ramifications of that seem to me to be quite appalling. The time that would be involved would be immense, the possibility of confusion significant and the possibility of error very grave. I will be saying a little more on that point when we come to clause 111. 
What I would like to suggest to my friend is that he should delete paragraphs (a), (e), (f) and (g) from the definition and put in something to the effect of these words: 'or under which the person or any person who is associated with the person by virtue of paragraph (a) benefits or is capable of benefiting'. I do not insist that the honourable gentleman embrace my suggested amendment. But I do make the observation that there will be very great areas of difficulty if the definition in the clause remains as it is. 
I have a question in relation to clause 1 8. Why is it necessary to declare in any provision of this Parliament that it is the intention of any Act of this Parliament to exclude the provisions of any other State enactment when, if they are in conflict, the paramountcy section of the Constitution operates? I ask that question. I have never seen it put in this form before. 
I turn now to clause 20 of the Bill. I deal first of all with 20 (2) (c). In doing so I have to go back to King Henry VIII to make my point. It is what is known as a King Henry VIII clause which, in years gone by, was inserted in Acts of the Imperial Parliament. It draws its name from the fact that Henry VIII used to make declarations having full legislative force merely by making a proclamation. It has always been vigorously resisted by those who walk in the Westminster tradition of Parliament. This is as close an approximation to a Henry VIII clause as I have ever seen. Please listen to it,  Mr Chairman.  It states that the Commission shall have various powers included in them being the authority to take such action, including the making of rules under section 283, as is necessary and available to it to enforce or give effect to the provisions of this Act. I ask the Attorney-General to consider, for example, that provision in relation to paragraph (g) of the same clause which deals with the promotion. It states: 
Promote the establishment of a national stock market; 
This Parliament has not the slightest idea in the world what action would be taken by the Commission to give effect to the promotion of a national stock market. Here we are being invited to put into this Bill a provision of that nature. I would describe it as quite exceptional. There has never been inserted a provision of that character into any other Act of this Parliament that I can recall in the 20 years that I have been here. I draw the attention of the Attorney-General to the wide nature of that provision. I would also invite him to delete the word 'promote' in clause 20 (2) (g) and to use the verb 'encourage'. This is no mere quibble. 
This is no mere quibble at all. Promote' means that one takes an active, personal and proprietorial interest in what one is doing. 'Encourage' puts it in an entirely different way. Is it the Government's intention to promote a national stock market and to run it as a promoter? This is the fear which is held,  Mr 
Attorney-General, by many people in the community and I invite him, as the nation's leading law officer, to settle those fears. The AttorneyGeneral could settle them simply by taking out that one word and inserting another. 
I invite the Attorney-General to consider the ramifications of clause 32 in relation to a number of issues. Under clause 32 a meeting of 3 members of the Commission can delegate to an officer of the Commission- qualifications unstated; sense of judgment unknown- power to prohibit trading of securities on a stock market under clause 60; stop trading for the day. The social consequences of that seem to me to be immense. What if the officer made an error of judgment? It would be bad enough if the Commission made an error of judgment, but if for some reason or other the officer took the powers under clause 60 and said: BHP shares will not be traded iri for 2 1 days ' - 
-No, it is not. 
-The clause says 'other than'. 
I am indebted to the honourable gentleman. Let me therefore deal with the one that goes before. 
-No, not at all. The Government has made absolutely no effort to put into this Bill appropriate - 
J am still on the same clause because it has the same relevance. I deal now with the fact that the Commission cannot delegate and that it holds power to suspend. What does the Attorney-General say about the position where the Commission makes an error of judgment? No appeal lies whatsoever, and this trumpety little amendment, this spurious amendment - 
-The one which is in contemplation and which states that certain decisions of the Commissioners are not to be reviewed except as provided by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. What impertinence on the part of the Government to come into this chamber and to put into a Bill a provision relating to an appeal to a body that is not in existence. This is disgraceful. 
No. 
-Indeed not. I had implored - 
I had implored publicly years ago an acceptance of the idea of establishing a proper appeals tribunal. 
No. 
-No, not at all. The honourable gentleman's rapport will not rescue him from the agony that he is entitled to suffer in relation to this matter. No appeal will be available where a grievous error of judgment is made by the Commission. The Attorney-General will not heed my words but I wonder whether he will heed the words of the authentic voice of a great Englishman, Lord Denning, in the first Hamlyn lecture. These words should be carved in some form or another in the office of every civil servant in Australia. This is what Lord Denning said: 
It should be clearly understood that although the High Court has some degree of control over the tribunals it is not such as to enable it to correct many of the faults or injustices which may arise, unless the Statute gives an appeal. The High Court proceeds' on the footing that if Parliament had thought fit to entrust jurisdiction on all these new matters to new tribunals without any appeal from them, then, so long as the tribunals do not exceed or abuse their jurisdiction, the High Court should not interfere with them. 
He continued: 
If a tribunal should come to a wrong conclusion on the facts or, indeed, if there is no evidence on which it could come to its conclusion, the High Court cannot interfere; nor, if the tribunal comes to a wrong conclusion in point of law can the High Court interfere. So long as the tribunal keeps within its jurisdiction, and is not guilty of any flagrantly unjust procedure, its decision is final both on facts and the law. 
For all practical purposes the High Court in Australia, in relation to this Bill, is placed in a comparable position. I implore the AttorneyGeneral, as the one whom I have described as the chief law officer of the country, the parens patri of the country: For heavens sake, provide some appeals provisions that are readily identifiable and will adequately safeguard against the improper use of very grave powers. 
-At the risk of asking a question and being greeted with incivility, I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby):  What is the position where a person does not respond to a request to appear before the Commission at a hearing? A heavy penalty is to be visited upon a person in such circumstances. 
I am taking clauses 40 to 43 in globo. It is very proper that there should be such a provision in relation to a hearing, but I inquire of the honourable gentleman: Where does the onus rest with respect to 'reasonable excuse'? Does it rest upon the Commission to show that the person absented himself or herself without reasonable excuse, or does the onus rest upon the individual who stands in prospect of being penalised? My second question is with respect to sub-clause (2) (a) of clause 43 which reads: 
A person appearing as a witness at a hearing before the Commission shall not - 
without reasonable excuse, refer or fail to answer a question that he is required to answer by the member presiding at the proceedings; 
The Attorney-General will acknowledge the fact that some people decline to answer questions on a variety of grounds, not the least of them being that to answer the question may incriminate them. If that be the case, then this is a very significant amendment to what is the substantial common law position and the statutory position in many instances. 
Beyond that the question of privilege arises. It is not the person's privilege. Take the case of a solicitor who appears before the Commission and is asked a question dealing with his client's business. It is not his privilege; it is his client's privilege. He is in no position to waive it. In what circumstances does the Attorney-General envisage he would be obliged to anwer the question? Plainly, no Commission properly instructed in proper procedures would press a person in such circumstances if he said: 'I decline to answer on the ground that it may incriminate me or that the information has been given to me in privileged circumstances'. 
-I want to make an observation on the point regarding the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Surely the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will acknowledge that it is a fact that it is a corporation which has a vast trading character. Why should it be accepted in this statutory form? The explanation that the Attorney-General has given is one that does not seem to me to be in the least acceptable. 
I want to ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  a question in regard to clause 55 which deals with application for registration. It is only a small point but it is one that should be settled. I refer in particular to clause 55 (2) (c) which states that the application for registration  shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee. 
Is this a set fee for every application or does it have a relationship to the nature of the corporation, the size of it, the capital of it or what? Where will the prescribed fee be found? This is certainly not defined. Will the Attorney-General tell me what he has in contemplation? 
-In respect to clause 59 1 ask the Attorney-General whether he will give an assurance that where the Commission directs that the constituent documents of the corporation have to be varied for one reason or another there will be a right of appeal to the proposed administrative appeals tribunal. The point is a short one and I do not want to labour it. It would seem to me to be an area peculiarly fitted for such a body as the administration appeals tribunal. The Attorney-General has informed us that we will see legislation in the near future for the establishment of this administrative appeals tribunal but it would seem to me appropriate, if there is a complaint made about a decision of the Commission, that an appeal be made to that body. I ask the Attorney-General: What criteria will the members of the Commission be looking at when they seek to vary the constituent documents? It seems to me that they have a power which is quite unrelated to the power in clause 58. Additionally, will the right of appeal be available? 
In respect to clause 60, will there be a right of appeal where there is a suspension by the Commission of a corporation or the trading of a company? I do not want any ambiguity here. I did not mention all companies. I gave a specific instance of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. If one company is suspended from trading for 2 1 days the consequences could be quite ruinous. I ask the Attorney-General: Will he give the Committee an undertaking that when a decision is taken by the Commission in such circumstances a right of appeal will be made available? 
I must admit at once that I have been left with the impression that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  favours the Bill. I am bound to tell him, in equal candour, that I have not been left with the impression that he quite understands it. Let me turn to the first commitment that the honourable gentleman has made and that is with respect to the support he gives the Bill. He has given very generous support, unstinted support, bold support; but for what has he given support? He has given support not merely for a proposal that sin should be abolished. The honourable gentleman has declared that there is only one way in which to abolish sin and that is to establish an abattoir. I would like to say to the honourable gentleman, to the House and to the people outside that there is no doubt as far as the Opposition is concerned as to the need for some regulatory body. 
-The Attorney-General interrupted me and said that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government had 23 years in which to act. I want to show the brilliance of the Attorney-General's logic. If one takes it and extends it one could say that the AttorneyGeneral would say that 23 years ago- in 1942- we should have been operating DC9 aircraft on the Canberra to Sydney route. Do not distract me from the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide and his asseveration as to what the Opposition would do about a regulatory body. I want to say without the slightest ambiguity that we would establish a regulatory body, but that what follows is: What character of body? This is where we differ. Let there be no complaint from or misunderstanding on the part of the honourable gentleman or any of his colleagues as to what are the views of those who work in this industry.  Mr Valder  and  Mr Campbell  Johnston- 2 distinguished and highly respected Australians who work in this fieldhave said plainly that they favour a regulatory body of some description. So what is at issue between the Government and the Opposition in this matter is not simply to have a regulatory body as such. We are for all practical purposes ad idem on the point. What is at issue is what sort of system there would be. 
Before I turn to look at the Bill itself may I make a glancing blow at my friend the AttorneyGeneral with respect to the time table of this Bill. 
I was immensely indebted to the honourable and learned gentleman for his assurance that this Bill would be afforded reasonable time for debate. I hope that he will not succumb to any pressure which may be placed upon him by that wily, albeit that lovable, that insinuating colleague, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who has been on the hot line finding out exactly what the orders should be on this issue. So I plead with the Attorney-General: Do not succumb to the Leader of the House, to any of his blandishments, to any of his wiles or to any of his manoeuvres. Stand fast as we expect of any respectable Attorney-General. Stand fast and say: 'Yes, there will be reasonable time afforded for debate'. If there should be the slightest movement towards the tumbrils to the erection of the guillotine I ask the Attorney-General that he find that quality and sternness of character to say: This will be done over my dead body'. Having said that, let me say this to the Attorney-General, not by way of some grudging exercise - 
-When I come to talk about the Bill I can assure the honourable gentleman it will not be to his advantage or comfort. I want to say something further about the honourable gentleman's attitude as to what this House should do with a Bill that comes from the Senate. I find deeply offensive the argument that because the Senate has had a Bill for 2 months or 2 years, ergo this House should pass it through. We have our own rights. We have our own responsibilities and they are not to be whittled away by the Attorney-General 's indulging in sophistry of that character. I would regard it as an impertinence for us to seek to tell the Senate what to do. Similarly I would regard it as an impertinence for the Senate to tell this chamber what to do. I ask my honourable friend to reflect most earnestly upon the curious position into which he has thrust himself. 
I turn, at the constant beckoning of the Attorney-General, to the Bill. I am delighted to be able to turn to the Bill. There are 2 philosophies associated with it. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman has yet identified them. My friend the honourable gentleman from Adelaide made one or two, I thought, rather high spirited observations about some of the philosophies. But we will come to this as I cull them out, not in terms of offence to me per- sonally but as they may come back to my mind. The first philosophy behind this Bill is, of course, the philosophy which distinguishes the Labor Party from the Liberal and Country Parties, and that is its fond belief that everything in this world can be controlled and regulated- not merely its fond belief that it should be the case but its determination to see that that should be the case from the cradle to the grave. The Labor Party's philosophy is to get the Government to do it, to look after the people, to make sure that whatever excesses there may be in human activity, whatever temptation there may be to succumb to the world, these can be cured by legislative means. 
That is the dominant philosophy of the Labor Party and it is no better presented than in this Bill. But caught up in that, of course, is also the fact that our society, our system, is to be controlled and planned. The cry of the socialists in this country is simply this: 'Give us the controls, give us the plans and we will look after everything'. I am bound to say this to the AttorneyGeneral: Give him one plan and one runs a risk; put in his hands a number of plans and one stands in certainty of being greeted by chaos. 
The honourable gentleman makes an interjection regarding the details of the Bill. We will have a splendid opportunity of finding out how much homework the honourable and learned gentleman has done on this Bill when we get into the Committee stages. I am seeking to deal with what I describe as the principal philosophies behind the Bill and I would have thought the appropriate time to do that was during a second reading- speech. If I were, for example, to turn to, say clause 60 which deals with the capacity of the Attorney-General to suspend a stock exchange from trading for 21 days, I say to the honourable gentleman with respect, that it would be inappropriate for me to do so at this time. But I may succumb to his taunts a little later on. 
I hope no person will be in any doubt at all as to what is meant by this Bill. It seeks to control everything in this country. The honourable member for Adelaide has asked why it is that we complain about putting together corporations and securities. I think there is an explanation readily available, even if it may not be readily accepted by the honourable gentleman. We are dealing with 2 entirely different characters. We are dealing with corporations and individuals. We are dealing with 2 entirely different sets of circumstances, 2 entirely different sets of problems. The honourable gentleman may say: 'Well, I am not prepared to accept that'. That is the decision that he makes. Whether or not it will be made to the advantage of those who are affected only time will tell. 
The form of the legislation leads one to the conclusion that there has not been proper consultation in the first place with the States and in the second place with , those who work in the industries and in the field. I turn to the first consideration, namely, consultation with the States. I do not yield to the honourable member for Adelaide or any other person in this Parliament in my anxiety to have established and to see recognised a proper priority for national consciousness. But one does not achieve that by ignoring the realities of the existence of the States. One finds this expressed not merely in Liberal-Country Party run governments in the States; one finds it expressed in Labor run governments in the States. The Premier of South Australia has an anxiety in this field. I find it a very understandable one. The Premier of Victoria has an anxiety in this field. All of these anxieties are completely intelligible. One does not build a proper priority for national consciousness by ignoring the existence of the States and giving them the impression that one simply does not care. But beyond that, I invite the House to think of the confusion which can and will flow from pretending that the States do not exist, particularly in this field. 
As for the second observation- the failure to consult those in the industry- I think it is a very sad state of affairs that when responsible Ministers in a Government give undertakings to people that their submissions will be considered, those undertakings are rejected. That is precisely what has happened on this occasion. Many submissions have been made by people who have worked in the field for many years- people who speak with authority and with experience. Why the haste on the part of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and on the part of the Government to proceed with this Bill and to ignore the useful suggestions which have been made? I refer my honourable friend to the fact that he intends to move 19 amendments himself. 
-The Attorney-General has indicated that he will be moving 19 amendments but he now says there are really only three. I want to tell the Attorney-General that I will ensure that he gets an invitation to the annual St Patrick's Day dinner in Brisbane. He has 19 amendments here - 
-Fancy the Attorney-General counting sheep, as the honourable member for Wakefield suggests. There might -be 19 sheep running along the fence but the AttorneyGeneral would say: *Oh no, there are not 19 there, there are only three'. I bow before the fertility of the Attorney-General's imagination. I just want to come on to the - 
Well, a little further on to the Bill. It is all very fine for the honourable member for Adelaide and the Attorney-General to sneer at the philosophy behind this Bill. The fact remains that this Bill, in its present form, is a significant assault upon the private sector in this country. Let no person be under any misapprehension about that. The private sector means the 75 per cent of the people in this country whose living and whose happiness depends upon free enterprise. This is the system that the Government wants to change. This Bill represents a significant attack upon the private sector. 
-Oh yes, and they have had the electric chair in America too but there is no reason the Government should seek to thrust us into the electric chair. 
I thought that I said quite plainly earlier that we support a regulatory body. I am quite prepared to concede that the honourable gentleman has limited cerebral capacity to understand my argument but it rather frightens me to find that he is suffering from some other malady- he cannot hear. Plainly we want a regulatory commission of some description. We do not want this sort of commission where 5 people are given completely untrammelled powers. It is all very fine for the AttorneyGeneral to say that this is not the case. I will illustrate it - 
-Well, there is the admission. It is great to get an admission from one's opponent in court when he says that this is not the case. The Attorney-General has said it is not the case that this Commission has untrammelled powers. 
-The Attorney-General says it is subjected to parliamentary scrutiny. Listen to this,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Clause 61 of the Bill states: 
The Governor-General may, where he considers it necessary or desirable to do so for the protection of persons buying or selling securities or in the interests of the public, by notice in writing to a registered stock exchange . . . 
It goes on to make provision that the GovernorGeneral in Council can shut down an entire stock exchange. There is no appeal against that decision whatsoever. That is a power about which I would have thought that even the most ardent socialist planner would have thought twice. Let us say, for example, the Governor-General in Council, that is to say the Cabinet, should recommend to the Governor-General that, because of some attitude taken by. Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, BHP shares should be blocked for trading purposes. That is plainly a power in this Bill. There are about 180 000 shareholders and 56 000 employees in that one great company. The whole existence of those people could be put in jeopardy- not some passing jeopardy but in very real jeopardy. That is a mere example of the hundreds of powers which the Government proposes to give to this Commission subject only to the most distant and the most ill-defined forms of parliamentary scrutiny. 
The last matter to which I would like to refer is the argument which has been pressed upon us by the honourable member for Adelaide and others that what was revealed by the Rae Committee is the reason for the existence of this Bill. I find that a very curious argument indeed if for no other reason than that this Bill, in very real measure, does not cover the mining companies concerned. What the Rae Committee's inquiry revealed was a form of venality, a form of avarice, but not throughout the whole of Australia because that is not the character of the overwhelming majority of Australians. What it found by way of dishonesty was substantially- almost exclusively, one could say- restricted to mining companies. Here it is - 
Well, we will find this out in time. The Attorney-General is piloting through this House a Bill that exempts, or substantially appears to exempt, the very people about whom complaint is made. To recapitulate, the Opposition would establish a regulatory body but the Opposition would seek to bring balance, perspective and reason in the whole conduct of that regulatory body. This Bill is yet another Bill on the way to smash the private sector in Australia and to seek to erect a socialist edifice to assuage the vanity of those who presently sit on the Government benches. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-by leave-I am prompted to enter this debate by the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  Whatever decision you,  Sir, may  take in this matter- whether you consider it a prima facie breach of privilege- is a matter entirely and peculiarly within your jurisdiction. I hope that in no way- without seeking to defend or to offend- we would countenance any assessment until you  Sir, and,  if need be, the appropriate parliamentary tribunal had considered the matter. I mention that so that we will not be persuaded to adopt any hasty judgment, no matter what the nature of the provocation may be. 
I am grateful to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  for having rescued us from a mild measure of embarrassment as to what was involved in the grouping of clauses. This is one of the most significant clauses in the Bill. It is a clause which I hope would never be resorted to by any government, because plainly recourse to a provision of this nature would be taken only in the gravest emergency. The clause reads as follows: 
The Governor-General may, where he considers it necessary or desirable to do so for the protection of persons buying or selling securities or in the interests of the public, by notice in writing to a registered stock exchange- 
prohibit all trading of securities on the stock market maintained or provided by the stock exchange; or 
prohibit trading on the stock market maintained or provided by the stock exchange of securities, or of securities included in a class of securities, specified in the notice, during such period as is specified in the notice. 
The power is clear. It means that the GovernorGeneral could shut down an entire stock exchange. I hope that nobody will be misled. This is not some expression of gubernatorial solicitude for the investor or the company. This power means that a government could shut down an entire stock exchange, because it is the conventional rule that the Governor-General acts on the advice of his Ministers, although it is useful to recall that a former leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Dr Evatt,  observed that surely it is wrong to assume that the GovernorGeneral is a mere tool in the hands of the dominant political party. 
For all practical purposes, one may say that this proposed section would give to a government a power to shut down- indefinitely, mark you- an entire stock exchange. It is not a case of suspending from trading one company. It is not a case of questioning the professional or commercial ethics of any person or any group of people. An entire stock exchange could be shut down. I do not think that even during the war, when we were faced with the prospect of invasion, the stock exchanges were shut. I ask the AttorneyGeneral to state the circumstances in which he envisages there would be recourse to a power of this nature. For my part, if I had the numbers at my disposal in this chamber, quite apart from any instinct on the question, I would throw the clause out completely because it is not a clause which lends itself in any way to ready assessment of a set of circumstances which would justify its use. I ask the Attorney-General to tell the Committee what is within his contemplation as to the circumstances in which he, as the chief law officer in the country, would say to the government, and the government would make a decision: 'We believe that the Brisbane Stock Exchange should be shut'. 
This is a very significant power. It is one of the great powers proposed to be given to the Government in this Bill. It is not a power to be used by the Commission. There is no continuing professional judgment as to the circumstances in which it should be used. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral will respond to my invitation because very considerable concern is held by people not merely in the industry and not merely those who serve on boards. I believe that, as there is a gathering comprehension of this power, there will be widespread concern. It is not enough to say: 'The power will never be used'. I am asking the honourable gentleman to say, firstly, why there is a need for the power and, secondly, under what circumstances a government in command of a parliamentary majority would seek to resort to the use of this power. I do not wish to ascribe to the honourable gentleman's Party any malevolent purposes or motives; but imagine the chaos, imagine the confusion, imagine the sheer disaster that could be visited upon this country if, through some act of political caprice, it was determined to shut down one stock exchange or, if need be, to shut down every stock exchange in Australia. This is a very great power indeed and I think honourable members are entitled to a reply from the Attorney-General couched in terms of acute candour. 
I invite the Attorney-General to take into account the present character of drafting of clause 65. This provision gives to the Commission a power to cancel or to suspend a stock exchange from all forms of activity if the stock exchange has, in the opinion of the Commission, repeatedly failed to take adequate steps to enforce or to give effect to the business rules of the stock exchange. May I say one thing on this clause: If there is an infringement of the rules plainly there must be a sanction. I do not argue that point with the AttorneyGeneral or with my friends opposite. I am sorry that there is not the same splendid coincidence, of sentiment in other fields of activity. But that calls for a consideration of another character of sanctions. The fact remains that the judgment of the Commission may be wrong. It is not good enough for the commission to say that, in its opinion- to use the language of the clause- the registered stock exchange has repeatedly failed to take adequate steps. There should be the plainest obligation upon the Commission to say in what respects it has failed. I am sure that the Attorney-General will understand that if a charge is made against any person one is entitled to particulars. If the Commission makes a charge against a registered stock exchange and says: You haved repeatedly failed to take steps to enforce the business rules', the obligation should be there- and it should be observed- for particulars to be given. This is not asking too much because the consequences are immense. It is not good enough to make a suspension or- indeed, worse- to make a cancellation and then to seek to repair the damage. 
It could well be that a hearing before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under sub-clause 8 of clause 65, which deals with appeals to that Tribunal, may result in the Tribunal, on hearing arguments on the point asking what was the basis, what was the nature of the particulars. I would hope that before this debate is over I will be able to take the honourable the AttorneyGeneral to that- splendid and lively state of reasonableness that he protests he already commands. I am not asking for anything unreasonable. I am merely asking that where there is a complaint made by the Commission against a stock exchange particulars be given and that those particulars .be taken into account. The other observation I make on the clause is that there should not be that final act of suspension or of cancellation until the appellate provisions have been exhausted. Damage could be done and it could be very hard to undo. 
I have 2 queries I raise. I am not raising one of the points out of a sense of obstinancy but of Irish persistence, a quality which I regret to say the Attorney-General does not quite understand but which the honourable member for Grayndler and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  does understand. 
He conceals the qualities of the race very well. I come back to the definition of a stockbroker. Under clause 66 ( 1 ) dealing with licences reference is made to dealers in securities. The point I make to the Attorney-General is a short one. It is not only stockbrokers who deal in securities. There are companies which buy securities and there are companies which sell securities. Even though the Attorney-General this afternoon asserted, I thought, with rather boundless enthusiasm, that there was no State securities Act which defines 'stockbrokers' I in my Spartan simplicity brought in here the Acts of the New South Wales Parliament and there was the definition of 'stockbroker'. Of course, the honourable gentleman may have a rather jaundiced view of my motives and of" my attitudes but I repeat that I am here to help. 
I would hope the Attorney-General would at long last come to the realisation that one of the significant gaps in the Bill is the fact that in the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill, of all forms of legislation, it is not defined what is meant by 'stockbroker'. There it is. I would hope, during the slumbers of the evening, that the Attorney-General may come to a realisation that there may have been something in the proposition put to him so simply, so fervently, by the honourable member for Moreton. That is the first observation I make on that clause because I think it points up again the deficiency in the Bill. 
The second observation I make is this: Why is there only 30 days for registration after this Bill is proclaimed and translated into law? It is not merely out of consideration of those who will be involved; it is a consideration of those civil servants of the country who will have to deal with the matter. It would seem to me to be more in accord with realism if the Government were to extend' that period of 30 days to 60 days. It is an entirely personal observation. I think that 60 days would enable the processing to be done with greater measure of reasonableness than would be possible with the 30 days. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, you are getting desperately close. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- That was in the past. 
I see. There have been those who have been restored. Lazarus was a conspicuous example. In relation to clause 83, 1 asked the Attorney-General earlier in the Committee debate about financial journalists being registered. I find myself in agreement with the proposition, but the definition of 'financial journalist' seemed to me to be too restrictive and not to meet the simple facts of life. The Committee will recall that the financial journalist was described as one who contributed to a newspaper or periodical. The proposition that I put to the AttorneyGeneral was simply that there would be many people who were in fact financial journalists but who would not come within the definition. I hope that the Attorney-General, who is well on his way to succumbing to reasonableness, will concede that the point is made and will say with encouraging readiness: 'We will do something about this'. 
-The Opposition is opposed to clause 115 which seeks to prohibit a member of a registered stock exchange from being a director of a registered corporation. I hope that the significance of this will be clearly understood by the Committee. The Attorney-General, with almost religious fervour, has refrained from defining the term 'stock brocker'. But under this clause any share broker is denied the right to be a director of a company. At first blush that may seem to be an appealing proposition. But is it? Insider trading is something that I look upon, and I am sure all my colleagues on this side of the chamber look upon, with unfeigned disgust and disapproval. That is rather strong language to use but I hope there is no person in any doubt as to what we mean by it. 
It should not be imagined that because a person is a share broker he should disqualify himself by dint of that from being the director of a corporation. I mention some of the people who would be denied the opportunity of sitting on boards in Australia today under this legislation.  Sir Ian  Potter, a very respected Australian who has served this country's interests in a great variety of ways.  Mr A.  C. Goode: It would be absurd to say this of him that because he is a share broker and falls within definition of a dealer, he should be disqualified.  Mr Campell  Johnston: The fact that he happens to have an association with my Party, I think, is irrelevant. I for one have never offered the slightest complaint about the fact that  Mr John  Egerton, with whom I have been on friendly terms for many years and who is a distinguished member of the Australian Labor Party, serves on various boards. I do not regard that as a disqualification. No political party has a monopoly of common sense, nor, indeed, of integrity. I mention another,  Mr John  Valder, who is well known and well respected in this country. Is it suggested that as a consequence of these people being share brokers they are debarred under this clause because of the possibilities of a conflict of interest? 
The Attorney-General knows only too well that when it comes to a conflct of interest the very proper thing to do is to reveal that interest. It is a matter of public record that my view is that if there is no feel for honour and for integrity it is not possible to legislate for it. I stated this when giving evidence before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament. If a man is not prepared to be frank and fair with his fellows and with the community I do not think that any gathering of legislation will oblige him to respond in that manner. I do not seek in any way to embarrass my distinguished friend, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  in alluding to that. I mention it in passing. Whatever views his Committee will offer to the Parliament are the prerogative of the Committee. There are many other people who are in a position of fiduciary responsibility and trust who would be in a position comparable to that of share brokers who are directors of companies in offering themselves financial gain. For example, take a solicitor with a substantial commercial practice. He is not precluded by dint of this legislation from sitting on the board of a company. 
I am sorry, but I tell my friend in blunt frankness that as this Bill came before us only on Thursday of last week, not even my inadequate mind or fertile mind- depending on where one stands in the matter of prejudice- has been able to draft appropriate amendments. Is it seriously suggested by the Attorney-General that a solicitor with a large commercial practice is in no prospective position of advantage if, out of a sense of avarice or venality, he wants to - 
-Precisely. I am indebted to the honourable member for Bennelong for his interjection. The solicitor may act for a competitor and unless he has a readiness to make a revelation and to act fairly he cannot be dealt with under this measure. I mention also the case of a banker; he is not precluded. A director of a trading bank may be in a position to benefit enormously from information given to him or acquired by him through his presence at a directors' meeting. One could take any person at all and find oneself coming back constantly to the one position. 
I think the Government, upon close reflection, will seek to make some modification to this provision. It seems to represent the high-water mark of unreasonableness as far as share brokers are concerned. It is my hope- whether it will be fulfilled only the future will show- that the Attorney-General will understand the force of the argument against this provision and will indicate to the Committee that he will- to use timehonoured language in this place- have second thoughts and put the matter under close and constant review. 
-This clause makes provision for the search of premises by the Commission if the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  has reason to believe that a person is capable of furnishing information. It makes further provision for the securing of a search warrant to enter premises any hour of the day or night and to seize any document, to search any place on the premises, to break open any cupboard, drawer, chest, trunk, box, package and so on. This search warrant can be secured by making application to a justice of the peace. In no way whatsoever do I seek to reflect upon probably one of the oldest judicial offices known to our system of law, but to be able to secure a search warrant in these circumstances from a justice of the peace is something from which I must confess, instinctively, I resile. 
I ask the Attorney-General to consider the ramifications of this clause as it now stands. If a man came to my home and said: 'I have a search warrant. I have obtained it from the justice of the peace. I want to come in', and he comes in and I - say:. 'Look old chap, I am not satisfied that what you are looking for is here', and I put my hand up against him, within the meaning of this provision I would be obstructing or hindering him in the course of his duty. I would be subject to a fine of $1,000 or 3 months imprisonment. Of course, I would have to take the 3 months imprisonment. Looking at the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  it would be a pleasure to get away from them for 3 months. 
Great powers must be used with great discretion. I have always taken a certain view in regard to search warrants, which entitle a person to knock on the door and enter premises at any hour of the day or night. I have taken the view that this is a power that should be put into statutes with very considerable caution. I recall the occasion when Customs officers raided the home of a very distinguished Australian, Daphne Mayo. It happened that they had the wrong home. I was a private member sitting on the Government benches at the time and I complained, I hope with a proper sense of resentment, about the manner in which that raid was carried out. I ask a question of the AttorneyGeneral as the custodian of our rights, the protector of our liberty, the father protector. I must say that he will have to work hard to improve his image as it is at the moment. Nevertheless, I ask him: Will he please take into account the ramifications of this clause as it stands, and when this Bill trundles its way to another place will he seek to include adequate safeguards to take account of the fears that I have expressed? 
-Clause 267 is one about which I seek to make a few charitable observations. This clause gives a member of the Commission the right to attend a meeting of a registered stock exchange and a meeting of the board of directors, of members or a class of members, or of debenture holders of a corporation to which Pan III applies. So, for all practical purposes, the clause refers to all forms of corporations. A member of the Commission can attend, sit in and have a bit of a listen to what is going on. Really and truly, I ask the AttorneyGeneral: What is the rationale for having this incredible provision in the Bill! It seems to me to be unnecessary. Let us assume that members of the board of, call it Killen Enterprises for want of a - 
Yes, but benevolence marks all of its activities. Assume that we want to have a chat about some of the difficulties we are having with the Commission, this is on the agenda, the meeting is scheduled and a member of the Commission turns up. After saying 'Good morning' he is asked: 'Will you have a cup of tea?' He has a cup of tea and he waits for the meeting to start. He sits there as a statutory eavesdropper. It is an unbelievable circumstance. What would the Attorney-General think if I were put in the position where I could come along to and listen in on the chatting going on at a meeting of, shall we say, his branch of the Labor Party here in Canberra? I do not suppose that it would be a desperately well attended meeting, but I put that to one side. This provision seems to me to be an incredible invasion of privacy. I think that when the Attorney-General- who I am sure has inched his way manfully and reluctantly towards the state of reasonableness of which I spoke when we started on this Bill about 8 hours ago- is away from this place tonight and contemplating the labours that lie ahead of him tomorrow he will be attracted to this proposition. I believe that this is a completely unnecessary provision. I am sure that if the honourable gentleman looks at it earnestly he will come to the same conclusion. 
-This is the last comment that I shall make on this Bill at the Committee stage. Clauses 283 and 284 contain potentially very significant powers in relation to clause 20 (2). That is what I described this afternood as something almost in the nature of a Henry VIII clause. It will remain to be seen whether these regulating clauses will get the Securities Commission and the country into as much trouble commercially as Henry VIII got himself into conjugally. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">What capital expenditure was incurred, and what were the running costs of each tertiary institution in Australia in 1 973-74. 

 -Mr Clerk, the nomination of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  should be rejected. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put by the Clerk: 
That the question be now put. 
I begin my observations by making an appeal directed to the proposer and to the seconder of the amendment before the House. I want to say 2 things about the amendment. There is not one sentiment in it that I do not support. I know that is the case with many other, indeed all, honourable gentlemen in this House except for the last expression of view. The position is that to vote against the amendment a person would put himself at risk of having his vote widely misunderstood. People would say: 'Here he is. He is opposed to these splendid expressions of virtue and of principle'. What an intolerable situation in which to be put. The second observation I make about the amendment is this: If the amendment is carried it puts at risk the Bill itself. I am open to argument on the point, but I suspect that the dichotomy is not a false one. I hope that the proposer and the seconder would see that that is the course. Pressed, I would be disposed to vote against the amendment with massive reluctance and a very great sense of personal distress. 
At the same time, to support the amendment would mean that the Parliament would be denied an opportunity of dealing with a measure of promptness, and I trust with realism, in a very difficult field of human relations. 
We are not dealing with a new heaven; we are dealing with a very old world in which the cold admonitions of the cloisters will not protect human nature. We are also dealing with a society that still asserts, albeit in a hesitant fashion, that it is a Christian society. It is quite fundamental to the whole of the Christian doctrine and ethic to accept the doctrine of the indissolubility of marriage. To observe that is not to invite honourable members to go back to the last century or to the century before that when the great distress which was suffered by many people waited a long time for the legislature to intervene. There has been a change on the part of the Christian Church itself, beginning many years ago with the acceptance of what was described as the Matthean exception and the development in ecclesiastical authority of the Pauline privilege. But I respect, I trust immaculately, the doctrine of the Christian Church regarding the indissolubility of marriage. But the fact is that our society, wrestling with its inherent imperfection, has been brought to the stage where it must legislate in this field. The great question that we are asked here today is this: In what manner do we seek to legislate? 
As was observed, from the place where the present Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  sits at the table, by one of his most distinguished predecessors, the now Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, a very great Australian and a very great judge, when he introduced the Matrimonial Causes Bill, now the Act 1959-1 can recall him standing at that dispatch box and saying: 'It is not of the nature of human nature to have the saintliness of Hosea'. And it is not. The distinguished gentleman went on to observe the need for divorce legislation. 
The advocates of this Bill have asserted, above all other things, one argument; that is, in the first place the necessity and in the second place the virtue of accepting what one may, for the purposes of ready argument, describe as the no fault doctrine. I say for myself that, no matter how tenacious human imagination may be, one cannot always get away from the fact that there is some fault to be found. By the same token, no person can get away from the fact that there is massive temptation to apportion blame. But the great weakness of human nature is in doing it accurately and doing it justly. 
This Bill, as it stands now, is not a no fault Bill. In many respects the authors of the Bill and those who have amended it have put themselves in a position in which, with respect to issues, they depend upon the adjudication of tribunals. That will be dealt with, I trust in a reasoned manner, in the Committee stage of the debate. On the other hand, those who take up approximately my position would assert that the no fault doctrine, if it is accepted, is unrealistic and should not be relied upon. A fact of life is that there is something of the no fault doctrine- I put 'no fault' in quotation marks- in the existing Act. I instance section 28M-the 5-year separation groundwhereby one party to a marriage may by a petition after 5 years of separation secure a divorce and the fact that a person may secure a divorce on the ground of presumption of death in circumstances in which there is a belief that the respondent, if that be the case, has disappeared and can be presumed to have died. 
I come now to the central feature of my argument, and it is this: I accept the view that a marriage should be broken up judicially if there is an irretrievable breakdown in the marriage. But the teasing question is: How does one determine whether there has been an irretrievable breakdown in the marriage? Surely that is the fundamental question with which we are faced today. I hope I am not doing an injustice to those who support the Bill in its present state when I say to them that their contention, if I apprehend it aright, is that there is an irretrievable breakdown of a marriage if, after 12 months of separation, one person makes the assertion that that is so. On the other hand, can one accept objective criteria? I believe that objective criteria should be resorted to. I must tell the House in all candour that I cannot accept the no fault doctrine as has been proposed to the House. 
Let me give an illustration of the hardship which the Bill in its present form could visit upon people. Take the case of a woman who has been married to a man for 12 to 15 years and during a very considerable part of that time has been subjected to immense cruelty and great distress. She may be one of the heroic band of women and men who are prepared to put up with it, to bear it with cheerfulness to the outside world, but with inner deep, personal distress, Something may happen and she says: 'I can stand this no longer'. 
Under this Bill she would have to wait a further 12 months. Under the existing law she could get her relief immediately. It is not in point to say: 'Well, she may be protected and can be protected by the injunctive processes of the court'. She may find her patience- her charityat a complete and utter end. Why should she, in such a circumstance, be obliged to say: 'I must wait yet another 12 months'. Taking all these matters into consideration and speaking as one who has changed his mind over the years that I have been in this Parliament since the first Matrimonial Causes Bill was introduced and as one who has seen something of the misery and suffering that this world regrettably asks many of its inhabitants to bear, the legislature must bend to these people in our community. What way do we do this? I have tried to put to the House one simple fact and it is this: Divorce should proceed where there is irretrievable breakdown. Our difficulty is to determine whether there has been a breakdown. I indicate to the House that, taking the assumption that this Bill goes to the Committee stage, I will, with respect to the principle ground of relief- the main part of the Bill- move an amendment to clause 48 ( 1) in the following terms: 
Subject to sub-section 3, an application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage may be based on the ground that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. In a proceeding instituted by such an application, the court shall not hold the marriage to have broken down irretrievably unless the petitioner satisfies the court that: 
The respondent has committed adultery and the petitioner finds it intolerable to live with the respondent; or 
The respondent has behaved in such a way that the petitioner cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent; or 
The respondent has deserted the petitioner for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the date of filing the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
The parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition and the respondent consents to a decree being granted; or 
The parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 5 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition. 
Sub-clause 3 to which I referred earlier states: 
A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is  sastisfied  that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
I have spoken long enough, and I do not wish to impose upon the patience or the indulgence of the House, but what I have sought to do in the 1 5 minutes that I have spoken is to show to the House that for my part I accept the concept of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. However, I have a deep conviction that what is proposed by the supporters of the Bill would visit further suffering and further injustice upon many of our people. I believe that our community today, being of the character that it is, must acknowledge that there is a reasonableness to be observed in all manner of things, not least of all in this human field- a field with all its imperfections. It turns today to this Parliament for understanding and for assistance. 
I agree with the sentiments expressed by my honourable friend, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  concerning the Hobart disaster, but I must tell him- I hope with not offensive candourthat I cannot agree with his wider sentiment that these Bills should be supported with unrestrained enthusiasm. These Bills represent what is happening in this country- the fierce determination by those in charge to sweep the country towards national bankruptcy. It is to no avail for the Parliament or the country to turn their faces against the fact that these 2 Bills involve the further expenditure of $600m. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  approaches monetary matters in this country with what I would describe as a metallic calm- the metallic calm of one whose whole being is guided by a dialectical approach. I have conceded publicly my acknowledgment of the honourable gentleman's dependence upon dialectiveism for his conduct. Each time he takes the public stage he gives yet another admirable performance. 
A splendid performance. I am indebted to my friend for his interjection. The simple fact of life is that the policies over which the Treasurer presides are substantially responsible for taking this country in the general direction of bankruptcy. Today we are experiencing an inflation rate of 17 per cent to 18 per cent. That is taking a very harnessed view of things. Next year it will be within touch of 23 per cent to 24 per cent. We are assured by the honourable gentleman that he and his colleagues are intent upon planning their way out of difficulties. 'Give me a plan' is the great cry of the Treasurer. For the last 2  years they have had an  unfettered control over the Government. They will seek to beckon us in the direction of the Senate, but for all practical purposes they have had an unfettered control over the Government and over its activities. Step  by  step the Government is taking the nation down the path towards national bankruptcy. The deficit this year on current account, I suspect, would be within a touch of $ 1,500m. It will be interesting to hear the Treasurer, when replying in this debate, offer some confutation of that assertion. On present indications, if this trend continues, next year the country will face a deficit on current account of $3, 600m to $4,000m. 
No nation can afford the luxury of ignoring figures of that character. If the nation is to be invited to contemplate with equanimity a deficit of $3,500m to $4,000m, all I can say is that the nation is determined upon seeing destruction meeting all of its programs, all of its plans and all of the hopes of its people. The Treasurer, with a calm given only to a few Christian martyrs- I do not know whether the honourable gentleman is well cultivated as of yet for fulfilling that rolesits with this engaging equanimity and says: 'AH is well'. 
Let us look at some of the matters that we are invited to approve in these 2 Bills. For a start, there is $130m for the Department of the Treasury. Whenever the term 'Treasury' is used, one would expect that members bow with an obeisance which should be used in this place but which is not used. The Treasury is asking the Parliament to vote $130m on this occasion. Three of the items in the division referred to  by  the honourable member for Franklin deal with employment. One item calls for $60m by way of general revenue grant to assist employment. Another calls for additional capital grants to assist employment, amounting to $ 19.2m. The third is a special employment grant of $40m. In that area alone we face today 3 1 1 000 people out of work. It is the nature of things these days that one seeks to explain those figures away by falling back on the jargon of our dme. They are not really unemployed, if one is to use the technique of our days. One seasonally adjusts the figures and the number of unemployed shrinks to something below 3 1 1 000. I do not propose to be overwhelmed by the humbug pressed upon us by some of the economists in our midst. It matters not. If one is out of a job, one is out of a job. Plain English is done a tremendous disservice by pretending that one is anything else when one is told that one is seasonally adjusted. Of course today this Labor Government- this Government of disaster; this Government with a fierce fondness for plans but with no capacity for accomplishmentsays: 'Well, if you are not happy about being adjusted we will seasonally adjust you. If you are not happy about being reconstructed, we will seasonally reconstruct you; we will re-locate you'. The Government will do everything to you other than get you a job. Here is this enormous sum of money- $1 19m- being spent one way or another in the cause of unemployment; unemployment which has been caused by the disastrous policies pursued by the Government. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  takes the view that he can behave like a Roman emperor of old and that all he has to do is to say: 'Rome has spoken. The case is finished and nothing else is to be added'. The honourable gentleman indulges himself in a luxury which would have eclipsed that of Byzantine. We are expected to accept almost with grace the expenditure of this enormous sum of money in the field of employment. It is a thundering disgrace that at this time the Government should seek to get from the Parliament by way of further appropriation such an enormous sum of money. 
The Treasurer in his public speeches has suggested that what is happening here in Australia has been brought about by 2 matters. The first is that we have imported this distress into Australia. He has never quite explained how that extraordinary thing comes about. For example, if he were to read the observations of the Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development,  Mr Emile  Van Lennet, he would see that  Mr Van  Lennet asserts that member countries of the OECD simply do not go around exporting inflation one to the other. In one paper that gentleman contended it is about high time that this nonsense of supporting the import inflation theory stopped. 
But the Treasurer will have nothing of this. He does not say exactly how this comes about. He does not seek to say how much of the Australian economic activity is dependent upon overseas activity in the sense that it is imported into Australia, and how much is dependent upon local activity. He says nothing of the sort. The honourable gentleman simply says: 'We are importing inflation. This is a phenomenon around the world '. All I say to him is this: It is the  growing mood, it is the growing conclusion of the Australian people that the financial instability which has been visited upon Australia has been brought about by the incredibly extravagant programs which have been entered upon by the Government of which he is a member. Of course, the honourable gentleman views all this with deep disdain. One can recall the occasion when it was suggested that he would assume the mantle of  deputy  leadership of his Party. He said: 'No, I do not want that'. He got it. When it was suggested that he would take over the position of Treasurer, the honourable gentleman was heard to say: 'I do not want that'. He got it. Now when it is suggested that he wants to take over the Prime Ministership, the honourable gentleman has the same impressive urbanity. He says: 'I do not want that'. I just observe in passing that for my part the honourable gentleman is deeply intent upon securing the treble. 
The second basis on which the Treasurer seeks to defend the instability in Australia, so far as the Government is concerned, is by saying: 'We inherited the instability'. I must say to the honourable gentleman that I think he has been looking at the wrong will. The fact of life remains that when the last Government, the McMahon Government, was in office, the rate of inflation in Australia was about 4te per cent. Now it is no matter of accident that the rate of inflation has been taken from  4]A  per cent to the absolutely ravaging rate that it is today. The Treasurer knows perfectly well, and all those who advise him know perfectly well, that it is absolutely impossible to maintain any democratic society if there is a rate of inflation of more than 20 per cent.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that brings me to invite your attention, the House's attention, and I hope the country's attention to what precisely the Treasurer is aiming at. Fortunately for us all, the honourable gentleman has been something of a publicist. This is the 'Quiet Revolutionary' at work. If anybody wants to know something of the nature of the cerebral processes of James Ford Cairns, the Treasurer of Australia, I invite him to read the 'Quiet Revolutionary' because in it is a complete and utter revelation of the honourable gentleman and what he seeks to do. He seeks to destroy and to change completely the whole of the economic society of Australia. If honourable members take the postulate that I press upon them, that no nation can' sustain a 20 per cent inflation rate with indifference and get away with it, with the declared aim of the Treasurer to destroy the economic structure of Australia, they will find an explanation for the honourable gentleman's behaviour. I invite the House not to be sucked in by what I would describe as the massive equanimity of the Treasurer. He has a complete indifference to what people say about him or to what people may conclude are his motives with respect to economic policy. The conclusions are there to be drawn- the honourable gentleman seeks to destroy the system. The system can and will be destroyed unless there is a check' on Government expenditure, on Government extravagance, and unless there is a sense of resolution by the Government to bring inflation under control. 
Every policy, every announcement made by any Minister points to one thing, if to nothing else, and that is their determination to spend public money. There was a time when people in public life spent money in the nature of a trustee. They looked upon public money as though it were their own and impacted upon that a care beyond it, but today the members of this Government spend money with a profligacy that defies description. The fact of life is that they have no longer the trustee approach to the expenditure of public money. There was a time when Ministers, before they were called upon to approve appropriations of expenditure, inquired what was involved. Today they sign, they could not care less- that miserable, that contemptible phrase in any form of activity. To put that form of attitude into public life and into the expenditure of money is to invite disaster for this country. I am sorry that because of the exigencies of the House I am required to conclude my remarks in half a minute or so. I seek to recapitulate on this one point: This Government is a Government determined upon leading the country towards national bankruptcy. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Before the time factor interrupted my observations last evening I was proceeding to summarise the lamentable state of the Australian economy and I was drawing attention to the fact that both by accident and by design the present Labor Government has brought this country to the very edge of national bankruptcy- a contention which is not to be lightly resisted, not even by the wiles, the charm and the determination of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  The fact remains that the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  today is the most dedicated socialist in the country. The fact remains that the Treasurer today is determined to create a socialist state in his lifetime, and every effort that the honourable gentleman makes is towards that end. Whether or not it be the case that some members of the Government are not thoroughly in an understanding of that goal is beside the point. 
The country has been brought to the stage where it is invited to tolerate 300 000-odd of its citizens being out of work. The country today is invited to tolerate with indifference an inflation rate within touch of 25 per cent. The whole fabric of the Australian society today is being rent by profligacy in Government spending and by irresponsibility in management. It is being rent by those who are determined to smash the free enterprise system in Australia and to resort to the establishment of a socialist society. The Minister must realise, as he realises now, that that is the charge which the Opposition presents against him and against the Government of which he is a member. 
-The Opposition agrees with the recommendation made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  who has, in a rather painfully long and elaborate explanation of what has happened now blamed the typewriter. The honourable and learned gentleman would have wrung more sympathy from us if he had said: 'I accept full responsibility for the grievous error which has taken place'. We are about to arrest the indefinite article 'a'. The honourable and learned gentleman has sought to shrink from the responsibility that he should accept in relation to this matter. I just want to say to my honourable and learned friend that a fact of life is that such is the pace in relation to the handling of legislation that the Government is insisting upon observing that errors of this nature occur. We should all be indebted to  His Excellency  for having pointed out this casus omissus to the Parliament and to the country. I hope that it will be such a solemn lesson to the AttorneyGeneral that he will seek to use his massive influence with his colleagues to slow up the needless haste that the Government is proceeding with the handling of legislation. I hope that the Attorney-General will reflect upon the manner in which we are being asked to consider highly technical legislation that is spread over a very large and growing field of activity. I hope that the Attorney-General has been chastened. Indeed, one can see the look of contrition on his face. I only hope that he will be encouraged to show it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Were any telephone installations made to the Florida Hotel, Terrigal, New South Wales, in the last 2 months. 
If so, what was the cost. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: while the House supports the Bill's condemnation of acts of racial discrimination it is of the opinion that the Bill should be substantially amended because it- 
denies the operation of the rule of law by the conferring of 'Star Chamber' functions and powers upon administrative officials; 
contains objectionable intrusions upon individual rights and privacy, and 
fails to provide adequate rights of appeal, legal aid and representation'. 
This is one of the most momentous Bills ever considered by this Parliament because it deals with one of the most delicate issues facing what is left of Western civilisation. We are reminded by the historian Toynbee that there have been 28 civilisations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It might be an idea if the level of conversation in the chamber were lowered so that the honourable member for Moreton can be heard. 
I am indebted to you for your intervention,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I think it speaks eloquently and in a condemnatory manner for the rather curious attitude taken by the House. We are reminded by the historian Toynbee that we- this world- have had some 28 civilisations. We are also reminded by him that what is left of Western civilisation is under significant and severe attack. This century- the 20th centuryhas known its share of horror and agony. One of the singular contributions to that gathering of distress has been the conflict between and among races- the fact that men and women of different races have had difficulty in living with each other, abiding with each other, respecting each other. If the world is to survive- if Western civilisation is to survive- it is bound to take cognisance of that melancholy fact that there is not very much time left for it to do so. 
So I turn to the Bill. I described the Bill as quite momentous in terms of this Parliament and in terms of the nation's consideration. I begin by stating- I trust with some particularity; I hope, further, with some clarity- the Opposition's attitude to the question of racial discrimination before I come to deal with the provisions in the Bill. The first thing I want to say is this: The Opposition condemns, without the slightest sense of inhibition, racial discrimination. There is nothing whatsoever to profit mankind by taking the view that it is possible to assert a sense of superiority of one race over another. Whatever the differences may be, those differences are not to be quelled by resorting to the view that one race is superior to another. Of all the dreadful phobias in existence today, I suppose that xenophobia is one of the worst-'I hate a man because of his colour. I hate a man because of his origin. I hate a man because of his physiognomy. I hate a man' because of his environment'. 
This is not to indulge in some clinical consideration of contemporary issues. This is to deal with what is in a very real sense the centre of mankind's distress. I ask the House to reflect on the horror of the last generation, the Middle East, India and Pakistan and South East Asia. Wherever one visits in this world one finds the same measure of distress. Invariably it comes back to the fact that one race has been intolerant of another and has sought to say: 'They are inferior and as a consequence we will visit upon them the superiority of our might'. The sad fact of life is that the world cannot go on because sooner or later the breaking point will come. The breaking point will be hastened if those who find themselves in racial conflict also find themselves in possession of the weapons of mass destruction. That is the background to the very sad business that we face. 
I hope that no person in this House is under the slightest misapprehension as far as the attitude of the Opposition is concerned. We are opposed unequivocally to racial discrimination. 
I would have thought thai iiic Attorney-General of this country could have mustered the sense of respect to listen in silence to a quiet, respectful argument on this point. I warn the honourable gentleman: If he is persuaded to the view that interruption should be the quality of his ways, let no complaint linger on his lips as to what he receives. I say with no ambiguity and no equivocation that the Opposition is opposed to racial discrimination. We apprehend it for the fundamental weakness that it postulates. Many of us apprehend it for the utter unChristianlike features which it commands. All of us take the view that it is utterly futile in the search for communion and understanding in this world. I hope that no person will say: ' I am in doubt'. 
The second matter to which I draw the attention of the House with regard to this Bill is that in the gathering of powers conferred upon this Parliament there is absolutely nothing which gives to this Parliament an explicit right to legislate upon the question of racial discrimination. It depends, and must depend, upon that placitum in the Constitution which deals with external affairs. This Bill draws its force and its origin from a convention entered into by the Government of this country in 1966. 1 think it goes back as far as that. I put that without dogmatism. It may have been a year later but it was thereabouts. It was my kidney of government that signed the convention dealing with racial discrimination- 1966 circa- and now the Bill is to be ratified. It is to be ratified because many of its provisions relate to municipal law. When I am dealing with municipal law I am not dealing with local government law; I am dealing with the community, the municipal law of this country, and it stands in prospect of affecting the rights, the attitudes, of people under the municipal law and as a consequence of that the international convention must be ratified. 
I want to pause to observe, without elaborating upon it, that the external affairs power as a consequence must be seen in prospect as being one of the most emancipatory powers at the disposal of any government. There are 2 views on it- the view expressed in the 1930s by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Evatt and  His  Honour  Mr Justice  McTeirnan in the celebrated case of Burgess in which they expressed the view that if government enters into an international agreement or signs a convention and it is a proper matter for signature and for government ratification, then it can be received into municipal law even though there is not a clear head of power and beyond that and more importantly, even though it finds itself in conflict with other aspects or provisions in the Constitution. There is the other view expressed by the late  Sir Douglas  Menzies in one of the airline cases when he took a more constrained or, should I say with respect, a more restrained view of the potential of the external affairs power. I do not want to trespass upon the patience of the House but I just want to observe that potentially the external affairs power must be seen as one of the great powers available at the disposal of any Commonwealth government. 
What does the Bill seek to do? The Bill seeks to outlaw racial discrimination and the various manifestations of it. I have stated the view of the Opposition. I would presume to suspect it is the view of those who support the Government. In other words, I am seeking to assert the thesis that it is the view of this entire Parliament that racial discrimination, one of the disfigurements of the 20th century, should be silenced. But how do we do it? This Bill seeks to do it in a variety of ways. It seeks to do it by erecting in the first place an edifice which upon my argument, as I will advance it to the House, is one which should never, never, never be put in contemplation. This Bill seeks to establish an office of commissioner. This Bill seeks to establish, among other things, tribunals relating to the hearings of matters with respect to racial discrimination. This Bill seeks to establish provisions whereby those who feel aggrieved can have their complaints heard. This Bill seeks to propose sanctions for those who infringe against what one may with shorthand describe as being the transgressions against the provisions of the Bill. I hope that none of my friends, no matter what sense of political antagonism may lie between and among us, would quarrel with this view: Whatever mischief we may face and whatever difficulty we may face in the Australian society I trust that we will never seek to cure that mischief or to correct that wrong by putting in peril the safety of our institutions. That, in my submission to the House, put without any partisan heat, is precisely what this Bill does. This Bill puts in very real danger the safety of our institutions: Hence the amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition. 
I seek to explain in precise detail how the amendment comes about. The first part of the Bill, apart from technical views which would be better reserved for the Committee stage consideration, is unexceptional. The second part of the Bill deals with the prohibition of racial discrimination and it sets out what I may describe as the particulars of offences of racial discrimination. It is a part which is open in a very real sense to sustained and critical comment, but again I will reserve that for the Committee stage. I impose upon the patience of the House to give one or two illustrations of what is involved. For example, it is proposed that it is unlawful for a person to refuse another person access to any place on the grounds of race, colour or national or ethnic origin. One may say that that is a proper view to take. I give another illustration. It is unlawful for a person, whether as principal or agent, to refuse or fail to dispose to another person an estate or interest in land by reason of race, colour or national or ethnic origin. In language which I trust we all understand it is an offence to refuse to sell a house to a person because of his race, his colour or his national or ethnic origin. Again all of us, I hope instinctively and certainly, educated by the melancholy experience of this century, would agree that that sort of thing is a very proper proposal for any society to embrace. It is proposed that this should be put into legislative form. So far so good. 
How do we correct what I may describe for the purpose of my argument as the transgressions against all of these matters? Perhaps someone will refuse to sell a house to a man because he is from another race, from Greece or Italy. What if for some curious reason a person has a passionate dislike of an Englishman and will not sell him a block of land? It is proposed that these matters should be dealt with in a certain fashion. I am giving, because of the exigencies of time, an abbreviated account of the offences, but I am sure that all honourable members in the House will understand the character of the offences with which I am dealing. 
It is proposed, under Part III of the Bill, to have what is described, I would have thought with an uncommon indulgence in exuberance, as a Commissioner for Community relations. This person is given powers never ever given to any person in this country, not even in wartime. Let no person be under any misapprehension about that. When a nation is at war one can understand the sense of urgency, the need to not be troubled by fustian considerations or the niceties of considerations, individual rights and of liberty. But when a nation is at peace and it searches for a continuing peace- more importantly, when it searches to maintain its integrity- I hope that it will not turn its back lightly on the endeavor, on the labour and upon the sacrifice of centuries. This is the gravamen and the nub of the complaint that I present to the House this evening on behalf of the Opposition. 
We are proposing by dint of this Bill that the transgressions with respect to racial discrimination should be solved by erecting an apparatus which would be more suited for a totalitarian country. It is one which is desperately unsuited for a nation such as Australia. 
Let me give some illustrations of what is in prospect under this Bill. I may, without offence, take the name of Jones as being a man against whom the complaint is made that he has transgressed one of the provisions in Part II. The complaint is made to the Commissioner for Community Relations. The Commissioner for Community Relations receives the complaint, he makes inquiries- as he is entitled to do and is obliged to do under the Bill- and he is then at liberty to call Jones before him and to say to him, in effect: 'What is this all about? I have received a complaint'. Jones, being as any citizen- it could be Cohen, it could be Enderby- is summoned before the Commissioner and he says: What is the nature of complaint against me? Who made it?' The Commissioner for Community Relations is not under the slightest obli-gatton to reveal the name of the complainant. 
What an extraordinary state of affairs this nation has been swept to when it is invited to accept with equanimity the faceless pimp. This is precisely what this Bill does. It seeks to put into legislative form Star Chamber methods. It seeks to put into legislative form the man who comes along and says: 'Jones has treated so-and-so in a shabby fashion, which infringes Part II of the Racial Discrimination Bill.' The Commissioner then says: 'Well, I will call Jones up'. Jones comes up and, no matter what may be his sense of courage or of persistence, he cannot find out who is the complainant. I would have thought the whole edifice of the common law- common law coming down not as of yesterday but down through the centuries- would have insisted: Who is the man who made this complaint against me? Give me his name '. 
Is that so? All I can say is that my friend has had a very austere practice if he ever sought to pursue a complaint in a court of law without giving the name of the complainant. 
-I will deal with the AttorneyGeneral's interjection when we come to that. As we all know the Attorney-General resorts to the bellow when he is under attack. He never resorts to the explicit argument. The Attorney-General will have ample opportunity later to deal with this matter. Assuming that the  Commissioner  cannot deal with the matter, he could then say to Jones: 'I will have a notice served upon you. You will appear before a prescribed authority'. The prescribed authority will be a judge of the Superior Court or the Australian Industrial Court. The matter is denned in the Bill. Picture Jones finding himself before the prescribed authority and asking him: 'Please, Your Honour, who is the complainant? Who has complained against me?' The judge is under no obligation to answer him. Jones at that time, believe it or not, would not be entitled to legal representation. 
I should have thought that any person, let alone those tutored in the law, with any sense of fairness would have been deeply affronted by that. The judge may say: 'I know nothing of it'. The onus, as the Bill is presently drawn, rests upon poor Jones. It does not rest upon the Attorney-General, who has all the apparatus of power to prove. Does the Attorney-General seriously suggest, as the parens pater of this country, that this is a conspicuous display of fairness and that it walks in the finest traditions of his predecessors, those who have sought to interpose, to interdict, their authority against the caprice of the state and the liberty of the subject? Here we have a case of the Attorney-General of this country- not by his silence but by his curious interjections- lending the whole weight of his authority to this monstrous proposal. 
To move on from that, I want to point out to the House that there is no example to be found in the whole range of history which vindicates the view that an evil is to be cured by restoring to a greater evil. I hope that all honourable gentlemen- no matter what their thoughts may be of my political views- we are all mortal, even though many of us pretend that we are something to the contrary- will take cognisance of the fact that what we do legislatively will live on and that the example of our efforts will live on, either to inspire or to reduce people to despair. 
I conclude by summarising the views I have put, I trust not without ambiguity. The Opposition is unequivocally opposed to racial discrimination. I trust that there is no ambiguity on that point. Whatever may be the susceptibilities of the mind, the views of the political mind, to seek to deal with problems in a partisan way, I hope that no person will seek to damn us on that count. The other view I have sought to put, I hope with some clarity, is that this evil is not to be countered by restoring to a greater evil, one which will not merely emaciate but destroy the centuries of effort, of sacrifice and of labour. For those who ask: 'What would you seek to do about this?' I reply that the House will have an opportunity when wc deal with the Bill at the Committee stage to get a clearer and I hope more finite understanding of what this Bill is all about. 
-I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and calls upon the Government to provide more meaningful aid and assistance to refugees in the Khmer Republic and South Vietnam and at the same time calls upon the Australian Government to seek a cease fire in both the Khmer Republic and South Vietnam and urges that: 
The Government approach North Vietnam to seek observance of the Paris Agreement and permit Red Cross, Red Crescent and United Nations inspection teams to be present in areas held by North Vietnam. 
The Government approach the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China to seek observance of the Paris Agreement 
The Government approach other countries to build pressure 
to seek observance of the agreements and 
to persuade other governments of the urgency of providing aid in Vietnam. 
The Australian Government approach the United Nations 
to get the United Nations' agreement to achieve support for United Nations action in South Vietnam and 
b ) to maximise support for refugees which involves the support of the United Nations High Commission for refugees. 
The Government expand its own in-country support to South Vietnam in food, clothing, and medical supplies. 
The Government plan to take into Australia some thousands of refugees, including orphans, if consultations with South Vietnam indicate that this is a desirable course. 
The Government plan for continuing civil aid in South Vietnam even in areas overrun by the Northbut on condition that United Nations inspection teams, or appropriate voluntary agencies, supervise - the use of aid in support of refugees. 
The Government provide additional support for voluntary agencies in their relief work'. 
Like the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  over the last 20 years I have listened to an infinite variety of speeches on this tragic matter, and like the honourable gentleman I speak as one whose mind from time to time has changed. But I think that the conspicuous feature about this debate today is that we cannot bring the past back. There is no more poignant word known to language than the word 'if'. As my honourable friend observed, if Napoleon had committed a greater force at the proper time, then the whole course of European history may have changed. If a shot had not rung out at Sarajevo, World War I may not have broken out. If the world had taken notice of the warnings given concerning Adolf Hitler, World War II may not have broken out. 
But there is nothing we can do about the past. I say to all of my honourable friends who sit on the Government benches: 'Fling at us your taunts, present all the indictments against us you will; seek to justify in every imaginable fashion every charge you make against us'. There is nothing that any one of us here today can do about that. The fact is that there are those who seek today to justify, to vindicate, the ugliness of South-East Asia by asserting the errors of the past. For the purpose of meeting their convenience, let me concede that they are right. The fact remains that there is nothing- not the slightest thing- that any one person in this world today, more particularly in this Parliament, can do about the past. 
I am not going to refer to the past other than to deal with one charge that was made today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when speaking about what happened when Australian troops were committed to Vietnam. He said- to use his felicitious language- of those who on that day sat on the Government benches that they laughed as they lied their way into the war. I want to say to the honourable gentleman that that was a most contemptible thing to say. Then he quoted Ozymandias to us. 'My name is Ozymandias '. There the honourable gentleman stood before us this afternoon, king of kings, and spoke to us with wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command. We are inviting the Government he leads today not- to look back on the past, with all its errors- egregious, tragic, call them what you will. Not one of those killed can come back. The blood that has been spilt can never be put back into the veins. The dead that have gone to another world can never come back to this world and all of the tears, whether real or imaginary, can do nothing about it. 
We are dealing today with one of the stark tragedies of the 20th century, and it has some tragedies to compete with in order to command that position. There are 2 issues that we of the Opposition wish to raise in this debate, which was initiated by the Prime Minister and responded to by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a speech which, if I may say so, was a very fine speech indeed. The first issue we wish to raise with honourable gentlemen opposite is with respect to the Paris Agreements. When the Agreements of 1 973 were signed there was the hope and the expectation that the issue would be settled ultimately and, above all, in a peaceful fashion. That is why I want to ask honourable gentlemen opposite this afternoon whether, for example, they would agree that the sentiment expressed in the preamble to the Paris Agreements of 1973 has not been infringed in a most grievous fashion. Let me cite the language used. It reads: 
The parties participating in the Pahs Conference on Vietnam, with a view to ending the war and restoring peace in Vietnam on the basis of respect for the Vietnamese people's fundamental national rights and the South Vietnamese people's right to self determination, and to contributing to the consolidation of peace in Asia and the world . . . 
Is there any honourable gentleman sitting opposite today who would seriously say that the people of South Vietnam are now asserting their right to determine their own future? Is that argument seriously advanced? Does my friend the Minister for Education, putting to one side the didactics of his speech this afternoon, seriously contend that the people of South Vietnam are, as at this day of grace, in a position in which they are determining for themselves what will be the fate of their country? I shall turn to one or two of the Articles in the Paris Agreement because I think that the country deserves to have at least some reflection upon them. I turn to Article 15. 1 do not apologise to the House for wearying it, if I am doing so, by citing these Articles as I think all of us need to be instructed on what the Paris Agreements were all about. Article 1 5 states: 
The reunification of Vietnam shall be carried out step by step through peaceful means on the basis of discussions and agreements between North and South Vietnam, without coercion or annexation by either party, and without foreign interference. 
Is there no coercion and no annexation in South Vietnam today? This is a world of reality, this is not a world of make believe. Here it is said that the reunification shall be carried out step by step. The Prime Minister today sought to persuade the Parliament and the country that that is being honoured. It is all very fine for the honourable gentleman to say that there have been breaches of the Paris Agreements. What we are asking this afternoon and what the Leader of the Opposition has asked is what action has the Government taken to seek to draw to the attention of the North Vietnamese Government that we take the view that there have been transgressions against the Paris Peace Accords of 1973. 1 should have thought that the remarkable, dove-like Minister who is the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  with his powerful friends in Hanoi, which is the description he gave- 'I am proud to call these people my friends'- and who takes the view that all virtue, compassion, understanding and love for peace is bound up in his one body and that other people have no understanding of those things, would have reached out and said to his friends in Hanoi: 'In the name of humanity, stop this'. But no, the honourable gentleman came into this chamber this afternoon with taunts, insults and charges. In the most cringing of fashions he said: 'You have not even bothered to read my 2 books', as though he is the only author. What has the Government done and what will the Government do in response to the challenge made by the Leader of the Opposition to enable him to see what cables have gone to Hanoi? The Prime Minister knows perfectly well that any member of Parliament who has been a member of the Executive Council is bound to continue to respect the oath that he took as a member of the Executive Council. If those documents are shown to the Leader of the Opposition on the condition that he respects the oath that he took as an Executive Councillor, they will be inspected and the oath respected immaculately. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer and to which my amendment refers is the subject of the future of" the refugees. Surely no person today with any sense of humanity and any sense of understanding has not been dreadfully moved by the plight of the people in these two sad and tragic countries. The account given by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  of what they saw surely would rouse us in the first instance to a sense of indignation and in the second instance to a sense of purpose, commitment and, above all, action. That is what we seek to do in the second part of our amendment. In the first part we call upon all those nations that have any friends at court, no matter whether the court may be the South or the North, to try to get the genuine forces of reconciliation unleashed before further tragedy is visited upon those people. The second thing that we seek to do is to rouse the conscience of the world- the language used by the Leader of the Opposition- to reach out with a hand of understanding and a hand of help to see what can be done to bring back to the minds and to the hearts of these people a belief that, in a world which is not, I trust, completely inured to cynicism but a world which has been terribly mutilated in the last generation, there is still in existence compassion and understanding. I hope that the Government will find it within its capacity and its sense of understanding to accept the amendment I have moved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Under what Acts of the Australian Parliament was money spent by the Australian Government for educational purposes in 1973-74. 
What sum was spent with respect to each Act in 1973-74. i 
What organisations, bodies, universities, schools, colleges or persons were the recipients of moneys pursuant to these Acts, and what sum was received in each case. 
What system of financial accountability functions with respect to the expenditure by the Commonwealth of moneys for educational purposes. 
Has such a system examined the expenditure of the moneys referred to in part ( 3 ). 
If such an examination of expenditure has been made, were there any instances of moneys having been spent in a manner not in accordance with the terms and conditions of the grant; if so, what are the particulars of the discrepancies. 
Was any money spent by the Australian Government for educational purposes in 1973-74, not being moneys spent pursuant to an Act of the Australian Parliament; if so, what were the details of the expenditure, and what was the nature of the purported authorisation for the expenditure. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Is it correct that an instruction has been issued to the 3 services that expenditure on travel incurred, for example, by way of postings from one command to another, attendance at training schools and the like is to be reduced to an absolute minimum in the remainder of the financial year? Is the reason given for that instruction that there is a shortage of money? 
-May I begin,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  by thanking the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for his courtesy and consideration. The speech made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  today has done a great deal to vindicate the reputation that he holds in defence matters. I am bound to tell my honourable friend that it is a most unique reputation.  His  reputation in defence matters, as apprehended by the Services, is that he is living evidence of life after death, and his speech today at least gave an indication that at long last the honourable gentleman has sought to move. He spoke to us; yesterday he talked, he even laughed. We thought that for the first time the honourable gentleman had been persuaded to say something about defence matters. We thought that he had abandoned his reputation, indeed that he had perished through inanition. But today the honourable gentleman has put down a statement on defence which one must acknowledge for its massive modesty. Whether the honourable gentleman was the author of the statement or not would, of course, require some cross-examination and I would not seek to crossexamine the honourable gentleman, because that would be, I suspect, an exercise in futility. We would not find out whether he was indeed the author of the document or not. Nevertheless, he must answer to the House for the document. 
Having received the document but a short time ago, I want to turn to some of the conspicuous features of it in the hope that the House, and possibly the country, may have a better understanding of the honourable gentleman's assertion that all is well in this country as far as defence is concerned. At the beginning of his speech the honourable gentleman said:  ... the Government has in the last 2 years made considerable progress in the reorganisation, restructuring and re-equipment of the defence force. 
I want to turn to the first part of that contentionthe reorganisation and the restructuring of the defence services. In November 1973 a report on the reorganisation of the defence group of departments was presented to the honourable gentleman. As yet this House has not had an opportunity to debate that report. I want to say something about the report. Admittedly my honourable and gallant friend from Barker  (Dr Forbes)  had an opportunity- albeit in a very perfunctory way- to say something about the report. But this Parliament has not had an opportunity of considering the report in detail. Surely the Minister understands that in the 3 Services today there is manifest unease and disquiet as to how this report is being implemented. If the honourable gentleman is not aware of that fact all I can say to him, with the candour of a very old friendship, is that people are not giving him the truth, and I hope that the honourable gentleman will take an early opportunity to consider all the implications of the implementation of this report. 
The disquiet, as I find it, in the Services, is most significant. Admittedly, many aspects of the report are commendable, but a view exists- and I am bound to say that for my part, as presently minded, I share that view- that the organisation proposed would have to be scrapped in a time of conflict. I invite honourable gentlemen to give to the House and to the country at some appropriate time an answer to that contention. It is not made lightly by people who are uninformed in these matters; it is made by officers of very considerable professional expertise. Take for example the views expressed by a distinguished officer, Brigadier Hooton who retired in protest over this very matter. No answer was given to the contention of Brigadier Hooton, that with the amalgamation of the 3 Service departments under the Defence Department, civilian control of planning had reached a level where wrong information on Australia's defence requirements was reaching the Government. I am not making that contention; the former Director of Military Intelligence has made it. He is a man with considerable professional training and background, and I invite the Minister to answer his criticism. 
It is not that any serviceman complains about responding to civilian control. Indeed, I have never heard any serviceman say there should be anything other than civilian control. But control by the political executive, by the Government, is a different form of control to control by the civil service. This is precisely what is causing the distress and the unease in the country, and I hope that the honourable gentlemen will respond to my invitation. There has been no debate of any size on this report. 
The second significant report which has been presented to this Parliament is the report on the Citizen Military Forces, commonly known as the Millar report.  Dr T.  B. Millar is one of the most respected academics in this country. He brings to a report of this nature a significant professional accomplishment. He has presented a report that surely would have justified the Parliament discussing it. But again it was left to my friend the honourable member for Barker, when the report was presented to Parliament, to take 10 or 15 minutes- the only time given to the honourable gentleman- to discuss a report which has far reaching implications for this country. When are we going to discuss the report? 
It is all very kind of my honourable friend the Minister to say that he is making speeches on defence up and down the country. Today he has made a speech to the Parliament on defence, but I hope the House and the country will acknowledge the fact that there has not been one sustained debate on defence since this Government took office. There has not been one day's debate on defence in the last 29 months. Yes, there have been 2-hour debates on urgency matters- again invariably initiated by the honourable member for Barker. There have been perfunctory and discursive debates on statements made by the Minister. But since when has the House had an opportunity of considering all the ramifications of defence? I hope that honourable members on both sides of the House will be given the opportunity today to consider the implications of the statement made by the Minister. 
The Minister has referred in his speech to numbers. Indeed, he said that the number of the volunteer forces is five more than it was when his Government took office. I am prepared to acknowledge that. I am wondering if I can encourage the honourable gentleman, though, to acknowledge the fact that 10 per cent of the officers in the 3 Services have resigned since his Government took office; more than 1000 of the officer strength of the 3 forces in Australia have resigned. I ask the honourable gentleman how on earth is he going to replace the massive experience that those men represented by saying: 'Well, we have five more on the volunteer side'? It is a matter of fact that some 70-odd per cent of the Citizen Military Forces today are under strength. It is a matter of notoriety that all of the 6 battalions in existence are approximately one company under strength. Does this not indicate the futility of the Government's philosophy with respect to defence? The Government has not yet caught up with the fact that it is not merely numbers that count in this day and age; what is needed is equipment. When I get an opportunity, I shall turn to the question of equipment. 
Moving on to some of the more conspicuous features of the Minister's statement I wish to say something about defence expenditure, because the Minister sought to make great play of this. He has brushed aside with a gaiety that can only be described as breathtaking the fact that an inflation rate of 20 per cent has ravaged the Australian economy. He has dismissed that quite gaily. On the question of expenditure, let me remind him of that brave announcement that he made at a conference in Brisbane on 18 October 1971 when, with his leader, now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  he declared:  its - 
That is the Labor Party 's- target for defence spending will not fall below the level of 3.2 to 3.5 per cent of the gross national product set by the Liberal-Country Party governments in recent years. 
What has happened to that? Let me remind the honourable gentleman of the performance as against the promise. Defence spending in 1973 was 2.9 per cent of gross national product. The Government was going to spend 3.5 per cent, but in that year spending was down to 2.9 per cent. In 1974-75 it shrunk still further to 2.75 per cent. Is this a government of repudiation? Let the country assess that for itself. A clear, plain promise was made. There was no ambiguity about it. 
The Government said: 'We will not allow defence spending to fall below the level of 3.2 to 3.5 per cent', and in the space of 2 years it has contrived to reduce it to 2.75 per cent. I ask the honourable gentleman: Is he satisfied that that is the fulfilment of a solemn undertaking given to the Australian electorate in the year 1971? Was he haunted by that undertaking when he made his statement here today, or was the sense of equanimity that consumes the honourable gentleman on defence matters even able to blot out the recall of that promise? 
I move on further. When the honourable gentleman speaks about defence expenditure let me remind him that in 1970-7 1 the percentage of the defence vote spent on equipment was 12.7 per cent. What has he contrived to get it down to? He has brought it down to 6.7 per cent. In other words, he has halved it. Using any measuring stick whatsoever in relation to defence expenditure, we find the same pitiful story emerging. Defence outlays as a percentage of total Commonwealth Budget outlays in the last year of the kidney of government which I support, 1971-72, was 12.8 per cent. In 1973-74 it was down to 10.9 per cent and in 1974-75 it stands in prospect of being about 9.2 per cent. In relation to defence expenditure I say to the honourable gentleman: Yes, you can take hold of the aggregate figure. You can sweep to one side the consequences of the enormous ravages of inflation. You can say: 'I am spending more than the last government spent; ergo, I am satisfied. What is more, the country should be satisfied. How dare you criticise me? I am making speeches up and down the country. I welcome criticism, but it must be informed'. Here I am offering the honourable gentleman not the figures of my conjuring, not the figures of my imagination; I am offering him the figures that are prepared by his own Treasury. Is he going to repudiate then today? Is he satisfied? Probably the honourable gentleman in the course of the next 2 weeks will be able to go up and down the countryside beating up goodwill and making speeches about defence Services whose morale has never been lower simply because there is no trust in the Government. 
The honourable gentleman then turned to equipment. He spoke- I thought in rather harsh language- about the light destroyer program, the DDL project. He said that it was risky. It is always risky when the Government rejects it. Honourable members will recall the criticism voiced from the very spot where I stand today by none other than the Minister regarding the F 1 1 1 . If the Government had had its way the most significant piece of defence equipment we have in this country would have been abandoned. What does the honourable gentleman say to that? If the honourable gentleman spoke one word of criticism about the Fill project I am bound to tell him that my recollection is that he gushed forth a whole encyclopedia of criticism about the Fill project. 
When he turned yesterday to the question of patrol boats I was interested to find that he had found an interest in history. My one regret is that the honourable gentleman has no capacity to absorb any of its lessons. He was able to produce some amusement. I take not the slightest exception to that. Laughter exhilarates me, even if I am the object of it, but the honourable gentleman's preference is in another field. It is for tragedy. May I say to the honourable gentleman that it is a field in which he moves with ease and accomplishment because, as Minister of Defence, he has established himself as the most complete tragedy the nation has ever known. 
I turn to the question of the Royal Australian Navy. When the arrangement was made by the former Prime Minister regarding the Indonesian defence agreement- I hope that is the correct description of the agreement- there was nothing in the Government's consideration regarding the scrapping of the DDL project. It is all very fine for the honourable gentleman to come in here this morning - 
Possibly he will come back. I take no objection. He is busy preparing speeches he will make up and down the country in the next couple of weeks. I invite the honourable gentleman to bear in mind that when the arrangement with Indonesia was made the Government was committed to the pursuit of the light destroyer program. What did the honourable gentleman say about it this morning? He referred to it as the 'so-called light destroyer program'. I wonder who put together that collocation of language. He said: 
The so-called light destroyer program . . . is by now well known to have been so risky- risky in terms of the very complex weapons integration task, risky in terms of likely cost over-runs, risky in terms of potential time over-runs- 
Lord only knows what that language means in itself. The honourable gentleman did not pause. Possibly it is because of the deficiencies of my background, but I was not able to comprehend what is meant by 'risky in terms of potential time over-runs'. That is gibberish and the honourable gentleman should accept it as such. What has he opted for today? The Government took a decision- when we heard a thundering noise the other night that was the Government taking another decision- on an alternative, the United States patrol frigate. Some criticism has been offered on that decision by people with a competence in the field. May I voice some of the criticism. If these ships are to be purchased- I will come to the question of whether or not they will be purchased- they are to be purchased from the United States of America. The United States Navy asked for 50 of the ships. That number was cut down to twelve. It has now been cut down to seven. One of the clauses in the option agreement which the Government has signed is that if the number falls below 12 it will give the Government an escape from taking up the options. I wonder why the honourable gentleman has not referred to that. 
I want the Minister to take the earliest opportunity, either in a speech in this Parliament or one made up and down the country- he can make it in Cunnamulla as far as I am concernedto give us a clear statement as to whether or not 2 patrol frigates will be purchased from the United States of America. The difficulties that the Government faces with respect to them are these: Firstly, whether or not the United States itself will proceed with the construction of these frigates; secondly, if it does, whether they will be produced in sufficient numbers to enable this country to purchase them; and thirdly, whether there will be any resolution by the Government to purchase the equipment. They are 3 massive considerations as far as these ships are concerned. It is of no comfort to those who serve in the Royal Australian Navy for the Minister to say that the patrol frigate will be available before any of the present fleet destroyers go out of service. It is no comfort whatsoever to those who serve in the Royal Australian Navy. 
May I turn to some of the informed criticism made of these vessels by officers with massive experience and singular competence to offer criticism. The first objection is that they are designed to operate with a large fleet. We do not have a large fleet. The second objection which is raised by those competents is that the vessel has a single screw and if that breaks down they have to put an outboard motor over it to limp it back to port. The third criticism which is made of the vessel is that it has no growth capacity; that is to say if some new technical development appears, the difficulties posed by installing it into the ship are significant. The vessel has a range which is limited and which is by no means comparable with the range of ships in the light destroyer program. Beyond that, the doubts remain as to whether or not the ships will be produced and whether or not the Government will take up the options. What happens if the Government does not take up the options? Will the honourable gentleman come along and offer us an apology? I am sure that an apology by him would impress and deter any aggressor. 
I am delighted to find that the honourable gentleman has now discovered Pitt. Let me remind him of what another Pitt had to say: 'You cannot wage war with a map'. I am glad that the honourable gentleman has been drawn backhowever reluctantly- into history. I admit that I made a minor error in an historical allusion. I never feel embarrassed in admitting to an error because to make an error indicates some form of activity. Honourable gentlemen opposite do not stand in any prospect of making any error whatsoever. Let me go on to the other great flourish of activity in the honourable gentleman's speech. Let me turn to equipment as a measure of Australia's defence capability. The extraordinary thing about it, I remind the House, is that he did not mention one piece of equipment that had not been ordered during the time of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as Minister for Defence or during the time of the honourable and gallant member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  as Minister for Defence. He mentioned Skyhawks, Trackers and the oceanographic ship. I remind the honourable gentleman that, as Minister for the Navy, I had a minor say in that. I would have thought that he could even have been encouraged to give some sort of commercial on the point. Of course, he put up a stoic defence against the purchase of the Fill aircraft. The Orions, the Neptunes, the Caribous, the helicopters- the whole box and dice- were ordered during the term of office of the 2 honourable gentlemen to whom I have referred. 
The Minister then went on to say: 'There is a temporary dip in the level of spending on equipment'. I suppose that there are still in existence those imaginative souls who contrive to find felicitous phrases such as that- 'a temporary dip in the level of spending on equipment'. But then, having moved away from the frigates, the honourable gentleman got himself into the tank business. He did not tell the country that the order which has been placed is for 53 Leopard tanks. 
-Fifty-three of them. I nurse no grievance against my honourable friend whatsoever. We just happen to disagree politically. But there it is. The Minister is as much in my thoughts as is any other person in this House. I tell him that he is in a very secure place when he is in my thoughts. But I say this to him: 'I would love immensely to meet the person who has made the decision to purchase 53 tanks'. Why fifty-three of them? What is so blessed about that number? I am told, again by people with competence in the field, that the minimum number to operate is sixty-four. I suppose the honourable gentleman went along to a meeting of Cabinetthat determined body of men- and put in his bid. He was told- they speak to each other in civilised fashion- 'No, Lance, you cannot have this amount of money. How much does one cost? Divide that into the amount of money we say is available'. It probably came out to 53 te, but instead of bumping it up to 54 they thought: ' We will cut it down to 53 '. I would have thought that my friend, the Minister for Defence, would have given us some understanding of why 53 Leopard tanks had been ordered. 
I come now to the next great decision. The other major decision announced last year was the acquisition of 8 new long range maritime patrol aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force. The Minister went on to say: 'The choice lies between Nimrod and Orion'. He said that the decision will be announced, he hopes, later this month. I want to ask the honourable gentleman, again without any sense of grievance, why eight, because technical advice given to me by experienced RAAF officers- some of them former RAAF officers, admittedly- is that the minimum number which the RAAF could use is twelve. Why were we given no explanation on that point? 
I think that I have culled out most of the brave assertions made by the honourable gentleman. I want to come back briefly, if I may, to the question of the Navy. I wonder whether the House realises that today this country stands in danger of losing the immense skills of our shipbuilding industry. I wonder whether the House realises that the Cockatoo Dockyard in Sydney is not engaged in any extension of shipbuilding at all. I wonder whether the House realises that it is undertaking commercial projects for a commercial building in Sydney, for a rotunda or something to go on the top. The skills of these men are being lost. It was in the intention of the previous Government in the light destroyer program to remodernise completely the whole of the Williamstown Dock and to keep going the expertise that we need in this country. That has been abandoned. This morning the Minister was silent as to why he and his Government had abandoned the project involving the fast support combat ship. I wonder why. I hoped that my honourable friend would have been persuaded to give to the House an explanation of why that had been done. 
A few short days ago I asked the honourable gentleman whether or not an instruction had been issued concerning the cancellation of travel arrangements which involve expenditure on postings, on defence schools or on school cadets. I give the honourable gentleman full marks for his candid answer. He said, yes, that he had given such an instruction. The House may recall that the day before the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  from his side- his Treasurer and his colleague in his Government- said to the House that he had given instructions that no money cuts were to be made at all. I wonder why the Government picked on school cadets. Let me tell the honourable gentleman a simple but very moving story of a young school cadet who wrote to me wanting to know why the cancellation had been made. He asked: 'Would the Government be prepared to share the cost with us 50-50?' This Government is destroying enthusiasm in the 3 Services. Enthusiasm is one of the great unseens in this world. Without enthusiasm the defence forces cannot operate. I invite the honourable gentleman and all his colleagues to consider the implications of the destruction of enthusiasm in the Australian armed forces today. It is destroying enthusiasm and morale. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  attempts to interject with such rare purpose. If he were to discuss the matter with officers serving in the Services he would get an idea of the intensity of their misgiving and of their disquiet. 
I do not wish to infringe upon the courtesy shown to me by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is also the Leader of the House, or by the House and I do not wish to weary it. The last matter to which I refer is that the Government has not quite understood as of yet the tremendous and dramatic change of events in this world which has occurred during the time it has been in office. The Minister for Defence today referred to the strategic assessment which has been made. He said in the early part of his speech: 
Adequate provision for the security of Australia is the fundamental objective of the Government. 
He went on to say, dealing with the strategic assessment: 
It is assessed that our strategic situation is favourable. 
I wonder whether the Minister could be encouraged to abandon the no threat for 15 years doctrine to which he has succumbed? Until he has abandoned that doctrine the security of this country is not firm or secure and cannot be substantial. We must work on the clear understanding that we live in a very unsettled world and that it calls for resolution and purpose by us all to meet that situation. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. By way of very brief preface, may I remind the honourable gentleman that in February 1972, speaking in this Parliament on the Australian economy, he said: 
An Australian Labor Party government will never permit inflation or unemployment to become established in Australia. We have the power to prevent these things. We will use that power. 
I ask the honourable gentleman: Does he still hold to that opinion? If so, when may we expect him to pull the switch? 
-The members of the Committee may recall that during the second reading stage I indicated to the House that I was minded to introduce an amendment to clause 48 to put it on all fours with the British Act. I tell the Committee with candour that I have been tremendously impressed by the argument that has been pressed upon me by my friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and I have agreed to support his amendment. I believe that his amendment is the essence of sense. I excuse myself from agreeing with the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  when he says that proposed clause 48 relieves people from all forms of distress. I press upon the honourable gentleman the contrary, that proposed clause 48, as it now stands, could well visit very great anguish and distress upon certain people. May I give the honourable gentleman one simple illustration. I cite the case of a couple who have been married for, say, 12 years and during that time the wife of the marriage has suffered outrage after outrage by dint of intoxication or cruelty.  Mr Attorney-General,  please do not tell me that that does not happen. There are some brave and magnificent souls, both male and female, who are minded to see things through to the very utmost, but then something happens and the woman says: 'I can stand this no longer. I feel that I must, for my personal respect and health, obtain relief. 
The honourable gentleman's only answer to this problem is the injunctive process. If the honourable gentleman accepts the circumstances that I have presented, surely that woman is entitled to secure her relief instanter or virtually instanter. There are many places in this country today where, from the time of the presentation of the petition, assuming that the solicitors will attend to their paper work immediately and will accept process from the various parties, a decree can be given within three or four months. That is a view which has been given to me by judges who practise extensively in this jurisdiction in a number of places throughout Australia. That is the first objection that I have to the proposed clause. The proposed amendment offered by the honourable member for Wentworth would enable people thrust into the circumstance that I have just outlined to say to the court: 'Please, I need relief. I can stand this no longer'. Regrettably, the Attorney-General has failed to deal with that specific argument. He said words to the effect: 'What about the injunctive process?' Why should a person who has been brought to that moment of utter exasperation be then obliged to say: 'I will submit myself. I will make application for an injunction to restrain the man who has outraged and belted me, who has done unspeakable things to me for a long time'. Those of us who have seen something of the misery of human life in the divorce courts will realise that that is happening all the time. Frankly, I do not think that the proposal, allied with the injunctive process, is sufficient to meet the difficulty that I have outlined. 
The other aspect to which I want to refer is that which has been referred to by my friend the honourable member for Wentworth. This society and this Committee of the House of Representatives cannot run away from reality. Fault is a part of real life. Example after example of this is found in the parts of the Bill which deal with custodial proceedings. I venture to say that it is fantasy itself to suggest that any judge attending to the matter of custody will not turn his mind to a consideration as to where fault lay. If some person behaves in an outrageous fashion obviously that person would have slender opportunity of being given the custody of young children, and to the extent that that process is conducted there is a determination as to where fault lies. 
I am sorry, but I cannot succumb to the beckoning influences of constraint that consume my friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  Of course, he has not got the advantage of having Irish blood in his veins. Of all the daisy in the dell descriptions, surely this is it- a Family Court to deal with a matter that has absolutely nothing to do with the family at all, other than to disrupt it. For the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to come in here and to press upon the Committee of the House of Representatives the description of Family Court of Australia, almost as though it will be a court to deal with matters in some clinical, detached, dispassionate way, was one of the aching forms of separation. 
It is all very well for the Minister. He resorts to the pyrotechnic of language when it suits him. He is very seldom encouraged ever to resort to reality. Let me just deal with this Family Court of Australia. 
-Oh, dearie, dearie me; if I did that my friend I fear that you would not be able to survive the distance. The point about the Family Court of Australia was admirably made by my friend, the honourable member for Wentworth. Is it seriously suggested that every judge appointed to this court should be appointed for life- until he reaches the age of 82 or 85 years? I know some grand people of that age, but how rarely is it given to those of that age to keep themselves in touch with what is happening? Would the Attorney-General be able to say at the age of 82 or 85 years that he represented the insouciance of youth? I have my doubts as I look at the honourable gentleman. I ask him to reflect upon that. If there is to be any sense of realism regarding this matter, the Committee will come to grips with what is involved and, that is, that if there is to be a Family Court- I think this is a completely unnecessary proposal- there should be an effort to secure that those who sit upon it, if I may say so with infinite respect to age, should have a more gentle understanding of the problems of contemporary society than those swept into the state of octogenarianism. I hesitate to reflect upon the prowess or staying power of the Attorney-General, but I do not think that that will be one of his accomplishments. 
I put to the Committee as a practical problem that at present the Supreme Courts of the States exercise this jurisdiction. It has been described by a very great Australian jurist- one of the greatest jurists of all times- Dixon, as the autochthonous, expedient conferment on State Supreme Courts of Federal jurisdiction. The Attorney-General shows scant regard for the immense distances involved in this country when he says of a Family Court that it will, as a display in perambulation or as a peripatetic court, wander around the great State of Queensland in the same way as the Supreme Court does. It is a matter of common knowledge, certainly to me and to many fellow practitioners, that judges of the Supreme Court go to Mt Isa and Cloncurry and that they hear petitions involving matrimonial relief. They do so regularly. Does my friend the Attorney-General seriously suggest that judges of the Family Court will be able to turn in a comparable performance at least in terms of regularity? I invite my honourable friend to reflect seriously upon that simple, practical problem. Let us put to one side what I have said about his inchoate weaknesses in terms of time. I invite my friend to reflect earnestly upon the practical problem of members of the Family Court giving the same sense of service to people as do the present justices of the Supreme Courts of the States. 
I do not share the exuberant and elaborate description given to the Bill by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  but nevertheless I support his amendment. A mere handful of people are involved but I believe they are entitled to our consideration and our solicitude. I am informed that the number of people who applied for a decree of judicial separation in 1968 was 18; in 1970 it was 16; in 1971 it was 12; in 1972 it was 3; and in 1973 it was 7. It may be the inclination of the Committee to say: 'There are few people involved. Why should we be concerned?' I think that is a rather pitiless approach to the deeply held views of a number of people, albeit a very small number of people. I would trust that the Committee would acknowledge that in our community there are still people with very strong and robustly held views with respect to marriage and who, despite the fact that significant differences of opinion have arisen, nevertheless do not want to abandon the undertaking that they gave. 
I do not think it is asking very much of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to acknowledge that that is the case. I do not think the amendment will characterise the Bill as illiberal. I do not think it will expose the honourable gentleman and those who support him to the charge that they have succumbed to the blandishments of those who conduct the rearguard action in our society. This is a simple but nevertheless very important consideration. I hope my friend will not resist the compassion which he is invited to display. 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. My question concerns the reorganisation of the defence services. I ask my honourable friend: Can he recall stating in this Parliament in December 1973 that legislation would be introduced in the autumn of 1974 to implement the recommendations of the Tange report? As this is now the spring or rather the winter of 1975 - 
Government supporters- Autumn. 
How right you are! As we are now perilously close to the winter of 1975, can the Minister say in what season and in what year the Parliament will have an opportunity to consider the legislation? 
-This clause provides me with a ground on which to illustrate the sense of vexation which I have. I will be glad if I can have the ear of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in passing to express my vexation as to the manner in which this Committee debate is being conducted. I do not seek to reflect upon a vote of this chamber, but as I have observed in the past, I think it is the quintessence of absurdity that the principal law officer of the Crown is muzzled to the extent that he is given 5 minutes in debate, the same amount of time as any other member of this Committee is given. It is quite proper for members of the Committee to ask him questions and for him, as the Attorney-General of the country, to give explanations and in many cases to seek to settle the concern that honourable members have. 
I express my concern with respect to this clause. As far as this country is concerned, with a person going abroad and entering into what appears to be a polygamous union no great difficulty arises, but I venture to suggest that where a person comes from abroad where polygamous unions are permitted very grave problems can arise, particularly having regard to the fact that in recent years Australia has embarked upon what one may describe- I trust not offensivelyas a pluralistic society in terms of race. This clause commences: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act - 
According to the definition clause of the Bill, proceedings' are described as being 'a proceeding in court'. I am at some loss. I do not disguise my misgiving as to whether or not 'proceeding in a court ' means a court which is involved in matrimonial affairs- that is to say a family court or one of the supreme courts of the States exercising jurisdiction under this Act. 
If that is not the case, I venture to press upon my honourable and learned friend and his advisers these problems which may arise. Take the case of a Mohammedan who comes to Australia from a country where polygamous unions are permitted and he dies in this country as the result of a car accident. For the purpose of workers' compensation proceedings or for the purposes of Lord Campbell's action, who would be the widow? Take the further case of a testator's family maintenance proceeding. For the purposes of that proceeding who would be the proper person to be regarded as the widow and to be a party to the proceedings? I suggest that similar considerations could arise with respect to succession or indeed to intestacy. 
This illustrates the difficulty. We have thrust ourselves into this position by muzzling the Attorney-General. It is a valid question, as I am quite sure my honourable and learned friend would concede, for any person to ask because i there is a measure of disquiet upon this ground. If my honourable friend replies to this question, if he uses the 5 minutes or 2  Vi  minutes of his time, pro tanto he ignores the other questions very properly put to him by other honourable gentlemen in the Committee stage. I have expressed my disquiet on this account. I summarise by saying that if a person moves from Australia to another country the private international law provisions would apply. But I am concerned with respect to a person coming from a country where polygamous unions are permitted, because it could very seriously disturb the federal structure here in Australia. I do not yield to any person in my desire to see a sense of proper priority for national consciousness but here, by dint of this one provision, we could seek to trench upon a score or more of provisions existing in State statutes. 
-I shall take a few seconds of the Committee's time to speak about clause 8, sub-clause (2), which states: 
Proceedings for a decree of restitution of conjugal rights, of jactitation of marriage or of judicial separation shall not be instituted or continued after the commencement of this Act. 
I raise not the slightest objection to the disregarding of the old procedure of jactitation of marriage because I am informed - 
That is where a person professes or boasts that he is married to another person when, in fact, there is no basis for that profession or that boast. I am informed by the Attorney-General's professional advisers that there has been virtually no activity, if I may so describe it, of that character in recent years. I am prepared to accept that. Nevertheless I cannot accept the fact that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and the Committee do not acknowledge circumstances in which some people find themselves when, by dint of very deep religious conviction, they hold that even though their marriage has for all practical purposes finished, they want a judicial separation. I argued that point last evening- I shall not weary the Committee by arguing it again- but I hope that no person who supports the abolition of this provision will hold himself out to be a liberal. If there should be but one person or five people in our community who take the view that because of deep religious views they have a preference for a judicial separation, I think it is a pity that the country cannot respond to that. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  on the clause relating to this, last evening referred to the injunctive process. I think that shows the world the difference between those who have a fierce regard for the spirit and those who are governed entirely by material considerations. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 9 agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 13- by leave- taken together. 
-I want to say something about the provisions which deal with marriage counselling organisations. I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  why no provision has been made for representatives of the churches- I speak about the churches in their corporate sense- to be represented or for their views to be considered. I further ask the AttorneyGeneral what sorts of qualifications he would look for in those people taking part. I acknowledge freely that this is a vital field of human activity, but I think the Parliament and the country are entitled to protect themselves against what I describe as well-meaning and highly accomplished busy-bodies. 
-At the risk of being accused quite wantonly and recklessly by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  of being an obfuscationist I take this opportunity to ask a question about this matter. Last evening it was suggested in a debate peripheral to this measure- this clause, indeed, and one or two others- that we have enough legalities and that those appointed to the Family Court- this was certainly one of the inferences to be drawnwould be people skilled in the understanding of the ways of humanity. That would seem to me to be a rather extravagant description to give to some people. But still, at the risk, as I said, of incurring the Attorney-General's displeasure that I should presume to bother the parens patria of this country on a matter of this nature, I should like to know from the Attorney-General what he has in mind. Are the people to be appointed to the Family Court to be people with legal qualifications or not? 
-I remind the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that clause 34 states: 
The court has power ... to make orders of such kinds, and to issue, or direct the issue, of writs of such kinds, as the Court thinks appropriate. 
Could my friend the Attorney-General give me an indication of what sort of writs are in contemplation there? Again, I trust he will not accuse me of seeking to delay, frustrate, obfuscate or anything else. I am just curious. Thank heavens curiosity remains one of the dominant qualities of the Irish. 
-One of the points referred to by my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is that possibly the respondent to a proceeding may find that a petition has been granted without his or her being aware of it. I think the honourable member would find that matter dealt with under the rules. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  says that this is a non-party matter, but the fact is that he remains the parens patria of this countrya mantle that hangs upon his shoulders with varying degrees of assessment, depending upon the prejudice of one's views. I trust that he will be able to give the honourable member for Mackellar an assurance that the rules will cover adequately the possibilities referred to by him. It would be quite unthinkable for a person to find himself or herself divorced without having been informed of the proceedings in contemplation. 
The other matter raised by the honourable member for Mackellar is important. I would welcome the Attorney-General's assurance and, if need be, his further consideration of this point: There is a very great difference between the bases offered for grounding jurisdiction. We all understand the term 'is domiciled in Australia9. But the use of the term referring to a person as an Australian resident or as one who has ordinarily been resident in Australia for 12 months is another matter. The two terms are by no means identical. It could well be that the person was resident in Australia but had no intention of regarding Australia as his or her domicile. 
As presently advised, I believe that there would be a number of common law countries which would have some difficulty in accepting a decree granted with respect to residential qualifications only. I cannot cite the countries to the Attorney-General. But that, as I say, as presently advised, is the case. It would be a matter of some lament if we were to grant jurisdiction for a court to grant decrees which were not acceptable around the world. I would not share completely the view put by the honourable member for Mackellar that we are in close peril of rivalling Reno; but, by the same token, I think that, for the good name of Australia, it would be a pity if any decree granted by our courts were not to be accepted because the jurisdiction was taken on residential grounds and not upon the grounds of domicile. 
I suggest that leave be given. 

 Mr ENDERBY (CanberraAttorneyGeneral) by leave- I give the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  the assurance that this is a matter normally covered by the rules. If he looks at the present law under 'Service' he will find a dozen or so rules which regulate this aspect. Our rules have not yet been made. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 40 agreed to. 
Clause 41. 
Where, by virtue of a Proclamation under sub-section ( 1 ), this section applies to a court, this Act has effect in relation to the institution of proceedings on or after the date fixed by the Proclamation, and in relation to proceedings so instituted, as if references in sections 39, 46, 94 and 96 to the Supreme Court of a State were, in relation to the State in which the court referred to in the Proclamation is established, references to that court, and that court is invested with federal jurisdiction accordingly. 
Circulated amendment. 

 (Mr Enderby)- In sub-clause (3) omit 'sub-section (1)', substitute 'sub-section (2)'. 
-So that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will have to make only one speech, let me raise 2 matters with him now. Firstly, what would be in his mind if one State, or indeed a number of the States, held out against any agreement?. Secondly, will the Attorney-General give an assurance that in those large States in which there are circuit practices I instance the Northern District of Queensland, where judges go out on circuit and do so with a regularity- there will be no diminution in the services provided by the courts; in other words, that the person who today may be able to obtain matrimonial relief after 3 months or 6 months will not have to wait 12 months? 

 -Mr Chairman - 
-No, I have not. I thought that would have been a matter of ecstacy to the Attorney-General, not a matter of complaint. I support the views which have been put by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  in supporting the views of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  There is this extraordinary avant-garde attitude that if a women is divorced and finds herself with a new status the forces of equality take over and she should be considered on all fours with the former partner of the marriage. The Attorney-General, despite his very considerable efforts to earn a reputation as the unreasonable man, is not without reason. I want to posit this to him: A woman may be married for 15 or 18 years and the union, for "one reason or another, may break up. The women is then obliged to go back to work. It could well be that she would be asked to go back and work in an environment that was completely and utterly foreign to her. It could well be that the skill she had as a stenographer, say, has left her. It could also be the skill of a private confidential secretary - 
-It could be the skill of a nurse. I am indebted to my friend for his interjection. Whatever a woman's skill may have been, having been away from her vocation for so long she would be so utterly bereft of accomplishment in the field that pro tanto she would find herself placed in a position of difficulty. Clause 75(1), dealing with proceedings with respect to maintenance, says that the court shall take into account only the matters referred to in sub-clause (2). One of the matters listed in sub-clause (2) is that in paragraph (e), which is the responsibility of either party to support any other person. I am suggesting to the Attorney-General that, by analogy, this should be the case. It is not a fierce amendment which the Leader of the Opposition proposes It is an amendment which takes proper knowledge of the fact that times have changed. To use the elegant language of the honourable member for Wentworth, this is a stop-the-drift amendment. I think it is about time the national Parliament took cognisance of the fact that married women are not second class citizens. 

 Mr ENDERBY (CanberraAttorneyGeneral)  Mr Chairman  - 
-The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  predictably, has expressed himself in terms of moderation and reason. I find myself to be in substantial agreement with my honourable friend's views. From talking to judges and practitioners in this field, quite apart from my own meagre association, I have found that there is an overwhelming sense of support for the proposition that there should be an objective basis for separation rather than subjective basis. As the position stands now there is tremendous scope for fraud on the court. I think the Committee should recognise just that. One of my very close friends- I trust he will not be embarrassed if I cite him - 
The Minister for Services and Property would be giving an extravagant meaning to the words ' close ' and ' friend ' if he were to use them, at least in that juxtaposition. But to return to our muttons and to be serious about this matter, one of my very close friends-  Mr Gordon  Garland of counsel, who is probably one of the most experienced practitioners in Australia today in the matrimonial causes field- has told me that one of his concerns is the scope given by the existing provisions for fraud on the court. He has suggested, in his own very quiet and humble way, that the Parliament- the legislature, as he puts it decorously- should consider whether objective means, objective criteria, should be resorted to. As the position now stands, if a wife with children merely did washing for a man in relation to whom it is open to the plainest of intent that some application should be made for a dissolution of the marriage, that in itself may, one way or the other, inhibit the application. I would like to support the amendment which has been moved. I think it would remove an application from the whole field of subjectivity. As things stand at the moment I fear that we will be pressing upon judges for consideration, when they come to determine the matter, whether the application before them represents in some minor form a fraud on the court. 
-Without insisting on the point, I am wondering whether in relation to clause 64(l)(c) the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  would indicate whether he would consider inserting after the words 'subject to paragraphs (a) and (b), the court may' the words 'take into consideration the conduct of the parties and all other relevant facts and circumstances and'. I know that my friend will say that this is getting back to the fault concept. 
-Oh, yes, of course it is. I am delighted - 
I am delighted to get my friend's reaction because it gives point to what I have to say. 
If we were to wig you we would still have wool over your eyes. I just want to say this to the Committee: We are not dealing here with some trivial matter. Whatever our views may be with respect to the primary matter, we are dealing here with matters which concern the whole happiness and circumstance of those children who are thrust into custodial proceedings. Any person in this Committee who has ever been involved in custody proceedings will know the sense of anguish and the sense of distress in which they are involved. Judges, when they come to consider who shall have custody, surely to heavens are obliged by the whole conglomeration oftheir discipline to ask: 'Where does the fault lie?' Is the Attorney-General serious and are his professional advisers serious when they say: 'Oh, no, we will have no part of any reflection upon fault . ' Would the Attorney-General, as the principal law officer of the country, seriously contend that a judge should say to a woman who has been so utterly bereft of family and parental responsibility that merely because sheisthe mother she should not have custody of the children? I could not contemplate a more absurd proposition. But, under the existing provision, that could well be the case. 
I say to my honourable friend that he should take into account this new arrangement whereby he wants a Bill so that he can go to the States and say: 'We have a Bill. We want to do something about it'. I want him to reflect upon the enormity of a national Parliament saying in this instance that it is utterly disinterested in any consideration of fault. Such a position seems to me to belong to a world of utter unbelief and unreality. I hope that my honourable friend may succumb- no, I would not ask him to succumb to anything. I only ask him to accept the good sense of a suggestion made to me by one who has had probably even greater experience in the field of matrimonial law than all those who presently advise him. 

 -Mr Chairman, I am a little surprised that some of the proposers of amendments to clause 75 have not risen. I rise to make one observation about this clause. It deals with the whole general thesis of this Bill. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and those who have supported the Bill and, in particular, clause 48 have spoken in becoming terms about no fault. May I have some shush please? 
I would not expect any sense or shush from the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He has one of these errant views of responsibility. I am dealing with one of the most responsible features of this Bill, and the Minister for Labor, with 300 000 unemployed on his hands, is unable to take even a serious view on this Bill. I say to him: Do not start to interrupt me. 
-You and your cerebral deterioration. The Committee is now dealing with one of the most crucial parts of this Bill- the adjudication as to where responsibility lies with respect to maintenance. Whatever the differences of opinion may be between and among the members of the Committee as to the grounds which should exist with respect to the granting of a decree of divorce, I trust that we can accept the one short thesis I propound, namely, that the position of the children should be paramount. I trust that is the case. I hope that none of my friends, no matter what elaborate opinions they may hold of me- there are very few who hold that- or what meagre opinions they may hold of me- and I  understand there are many who hold thatdisagrees with me when I say that in dealing with this clause we are dealing with one of the most central provisions of this Bill. I hope the Committee will treat it accordingly. 
I find it impossible to understand why it is in a consideration of this provision we ask those who adjudicate to turn their backs on fault. I am not oblivious to insult, but I am not overcome by insult. I have had nearly 20 years in this Parliament, and there is no form of insult these days that rouses me to any sense of antagonism. When my friend the Attorney-General talks about me and fault, fault fault and blame, blame, blame with a rhetoric which would have done credit - 
Guilt, guilt, guilt, with a rhetoric which would have done credit to the rhetoricians of old, let me assure my honourable friend that I am not put out or disturbed by that. 
-On the contrary, I say: 'Oh my, oh my, oh my'. I hope the Attorney-General understands that when he is dealing with clause 75 he is dealing with a veritable power house of fault, fault, fault, blame, blame, blame and guilt, guilt, guilt. I only hope that the honourable gentleman on this occasion will not seek to run away from it. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker. The argument which the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has put to the House is an eminently reasonable one. I submit it is also an incontestable one. I am sorry that it would appear, even at this stage, that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will not respond to the suggestion made by the honourable member for New England in the fashion I suggest he should. I do not know why it is that this House demeans itself in the way it does. I do not know why, after having commenced a debate which has been described by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and by a number of his Ministers as being critical, as indeed it is, relating to a measure which is important, which indeed it is, we should punctuate the debate in this fashion. I would have thought it would have been the courteous thing to this House for the debate to continue in a quite uninterrupted fashion. 
If one turns to the question of priority- I am not being discourteous to my friend, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)-  I would submit to the House that a Bill relating to the Canberra College of Advanced Education should not claim priority over the conclusion of the debate on the Family Law Bill. But putting that to one side, even if that argument should be regarded as unattractive, what justification is there for a consideration of measures relating to redistribution? What priority should that command over the Family Law Bill? That is one argument. The main argument put to the House by the honourable member for New England this morning was: By dint of the manner in which the Government has contrived to arrange consideration of the Family Law Bill, this House is virtually gagged. It cannot turn to a consideration of any matter of urgency. It cannot deal with a private member's debate. It cannot deal with an ordinary grievance debate. This is one of the most outrageous mechanisms which has ever been employed- certainly during my 20 years in this Parliament. I invite the House to consider: To what avail is it pretending that this is a Parliament when, by a mere mechanism of this character, this House can gag itself? This is simply not good enough. 
I hope that the Leader of the House can identify the problems that exist. Why should this House gag itself? The argument put by the honouable member for New England is eminently reasonable. It is a very sensible argument. To think that matters of grave public importance cannot be discussed until such time as the Family Law Bill is debated in full is absolutely outrageous. The motion moved by the honourable member for New England should be carried. 
I do not disguise my affection or indeed my immense respect for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  But he has encouraged me to say to him in all frankness and without any bitterness that this is a nonsense proposal. I say that. I do not wish to offend my friend. 
That is it. The proposition put by the honourable member that lawyers have a vested interest in contention and encouraging it is quite untrue. It is completely untrue. On the contrary, it is not the lawyers who encourage contention; it is the litigants. If persons not versed in the difficulties in the field of the settlement of property, as an example, were to appear in a family court in respect of such a dispute, whatever might be their role, I say with great respect that we would have no end of appeals going to the appellant court, which the honourable member proposes. It would be the lawyers who would then have to come in to the aid of those persons. I hope that my friend will not persist with his amendment but that, with his characteristic capacity to reflect and to be persuaded by argument, he will withdraw his amendment. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Clauses 98 and 99- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 100. 
The parties to proceedings under this Act are competent and compellable witnesses. 
The parties to a marriage are competent and compellable to disclose communications made between them during the marriage. 
Sub-section (2) applies to communications made before as well as to communications made after, the date of commencement of this Act. 
I have just one suggestion here. Sub-clause (2) of this clause, as it now stands, contains a measure of ambiguity as to whether parties to a marriage are competent and compellable in all proceedings. With a view to resolving that ambiguity, might I suggest that sub-clause (2) be preceded by the words 'in proceedings under this Act' so that the sub-clause would read: 
2 ) In proceedings under this Act, the patties to a marriage are competent and compellable to disclose communications made between them during the marriage. 
I would hope that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  would accept that suggestion as an amendment. 
-I have considerable disquiet with this clause as it now stands. I acknowledge the futility of sending people to gaol for the refusal or the inability to pay maintenance orders and to meet their responsibilities. But I invite the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  to consider the case of a person who wilfully refuses to pay. I suggest to him- I do not press it now; he may be persuaded to give an indication- that if he were to insert in sub-clause (1), line 13 after the words 'matrimonial cause', words to this effect: unless that person has wilfully and without reasonable cause failed to make such payment. 
The position as it now stands affords no protection to the wife whatsoever. A wife may be entitled to a maintenance order, and the man may say, out of sheer obduracy: 'No, I refuse to pay'. He has assets. But because of the violence of the parting or the bitterness of the disagreement or for one reason or another he says: 'No. I refuse to pay'. It seems to me to be a very curious attitude to take in our society if people are charged by a court with meeting a responsibility, not to oblige them to meet that responsibility. We cannot escape our responsibilities in other fields. The present measure takes a namby pamby attitude towards society. I do not have in mind people who, for one reason or another, are not acting wilfully or who have a reasonable excuse for not having met their commitments. But I invite the Attorney-General to consider the position of a wife when the only means available to her of bringing a person to his senses would be through the method to which I have referred. It would be a matter for the court to determine whether there was wilfulness or whether there was unreasonableness. 
-The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has convinced me as to the soundness of the proposal to remove these words. They seem to me to be unnecessary. The honourable member in bis argument cited the example of a party to a marriage who is psychologically disturbed for one reason or another and who may seek to bring needlessly oppressive proceedings under this clause. They may be oppressive, vexatious or just the malevolent views of a person who is disturbed, or a person who is plainly malevolent. It seems to me that the presence of these words in the clause does not add anything. Accepting the view that injunctive proceedings can protect a person from violence or protect a child of the marriage, that seems to me to be sufficient. However, what is to be gained by an injunctive proceeding for the protection of the marital relationship? 
As the honourable member for Lilley says, anything at all. Quite apart from the views pressed upon us by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  I have not approached it in that line dealing with fault, but I am tremendously impressed by the argument which the honourable member for Lilley has put to us, namely, that this provision could be used by a person who is plainly difficult. 
I rise very briefly to register my protest against clause 1 17 ( 1 ). I think that it is outrageous that such a proposal should be contained in the Bill. I do not think that a person who is involved in some matrimonial infringement should escape the payment of costs. I think that that represents the view of a substantial section of the community. I want to put on the record of the Committee my protest against the presence of this sub-clause in the Bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 8 to 120- by leave- taken together. 

 -Mr Chairman, I wish to speak briefly in relation to clause 1 19. 1 express doubt as to the right or the appropriateness of the Parliament to seek to legislate in this fashion. I realise that in the States most of the matters have deteriorated, but it would open for some enterprising litigant at some time in the future who thinks that there is a principle at stake to strike at it. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 121. 
1 ) A person shall not print or publish- 
any statement or report that proceedings have been instituted in the Family Court or in another court exercising jurisdiction under this Act; or 
any account of evidence in proceedings instituted in the Family Court or in another court having jurisdiction under this Act, or any other account or particulars of any such proceedings. 
Proceedings for an offence against this section shall not be commenced except by, or with the written consent of. the Attorney-General. 
The preceding provisions of this section do not apply to or in relation to- 
a ) the printing of any pleading, transcript of evidence or other document for use in connexion with proceedings in any court or the communication of any such document to persons concerned in the proceedings; 
the printing or publishing of a notice or report in pursuance of the direction of a court; 
the printing or publishing of law court lists; or 
the printing or publishing of any publication bona fide intended primarily for the use of members of the legal or medical profession, being- 
a separate volume or pan of a series of law reports; or 
any other publication of a technical character. 
In this section, "court" includes an officer of a court investigating a matter in accordance with the regulations and "judgment of the court" includes a report made to a court by such an officer. 
Circulated amendments. (145)  (Mr Ellicott)-  In sub-clause (1), paragraphs (a) and (b), omit 'in the Family Court or in another' (twice occurring), substitute 'in any'. ( 146)  (Mr Beazley)-  Omit sub-clause (4). (147)  (Mr Wentworth)-After  paragraph (5) (b) insert the following paragraph: (ba) the printing or publishing of a judgment of a court; '. ( 148)  (Mr Enderby)-  In sub-clause (6) omit all the words after 'regulations'. 
We would be lacking in generosity and graciousness if we did not acknowledge the tremendous work of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  as  Chairman. His  tact has been formidable, his patience inexhaustible and, where appropriate, he has been quite firm. I vouch for that. It has been largely through his help that there has been a rninimum of fuss. Having said that, I observe that I hope the House will never again proceed to discuss a large measure of this nature in this fashion. I think it is completely wrong that we proceed on the basis that every person in the 
House, including the person in charge of the Bill- in this case it was the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)-  is tied and fettered in the fashion that we are. I know the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  takes the view that this is the only way he can get legislation through. I do not agree with him. I venture to suggest that many questions which are raised can be answered in the Committee stage in a conversational style. It tends to block the free flow of ideas. We did that this afternoon. I think honourable members would have noticed the difference. There was not the tumult and the shouting of yesterday. The last observation I make is this: This House will lose its own authority if it proceeds to discuss or consider matters on the basis that the Senate has discussed it, it has had a lengthy inquiry, ergo we should not do anything about it. The authority of this House should not be diminished in any shape or form by acknowledging the work that has been done in any other place. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the names of the staff of the Natural Disasters Organisation in Canberra on 24 December 1974, and what were their functions. 
What people were seconded to the staff of the Organisation in Canberra in the week following 24 December 1974, and what were their names and functions. 
What telephone lines and numbers were operated by the Organisation on 24 December 1974 in (a) Canberra and (b) other capital cities. 
What telephone numbers in the name of the Organisation were listed in Australian telephone directories on 24 December 1974. 
Were additional telephone lines provided for use by the Organisation in Canberra after 24 December 1974; if so, when were they installed. 
Under what legislative authority does the Organisation purport to direct the movement of Australian citizens. 
Was any provision made at any time after 24 December 1974 by an officer of the Organisation for a permit to be required to enter Darwin; if so, who was the person responsible for making this provision, and who were the people entitled to exercise the purported authority under the provision. 
What were the names of the Members of the Australian Parliament who visited Darwin in the week following 24 December 1974, and were they subject to a permit entry system. 
Did the Organisation receive a request from Andrew Fechner, Manager of Tickle Industries of Brisbane, to enter Darwin to assist in the restoration of food supplies; if so, when was the request received. 
10) Was the request refused; if so, why, and who was the person responsible for the refusal. 
Did the Organisation receive a request for a review of the decision and was the request refused; if so, by whom, and for what reason. 
What was the nature of the consideration given to any request for review. 
Did he receive a telegram on 31 December 1974 requesting a further review. 
If so, did the telegram protest against any arbitrariness of the decision-making concerning  Mr Fechner  's application to enter Darwin. 
Did he reply to the telegram. 
16 ) If so, did the reply indicate that applications to enter Darwin were being processed by the Department of the Northern Territory. 
When did the Department of the Northern Territory assume the responsibility, from that purportedly exercised by the Natural Disasters Organisation, for the processing of applications to enter Darwin. 
Did the Organisation in Canberra have, at about 1800 hours Eastern Standard Time on 31 December 1974, the Darwin telephone number of the office of the officerincharge of the Department of the Northern Territory. 
If the Organisation did not have the telephone number of the officer concerned when and by what means did the Organisation acquire it. 
Did any officer of the Organisation request any official of the Queensland State Government to give assistance concerning the Darwin cyclone; if so, when was the request made, by whom, and to whom was it directed. 
What liaison exists between the Organisation and State Emergency Services. 
What liaison was in existence on 24 December 1974, and what was the nature of the use made of the liaison. 
Did the Organisation, prior to 24 December 1974, make any arrangements with any Australian Government Department in Queensland to render assistance in the event of any national disaster. 
If so, when were these arrangements made, and what were the Departments concerned. 
I move the following amendment to clause 2: 
This Act shall come into operation on a day in 1 985. 
-The fact of this - 
With very great respect,  Mr Chairman,  I think that is taking a rather offensive view. 
-I again submit my amendment and if you cannot read it,  Mr Chairman,  I apologise. 
The amendment, of course, enables the Committee to consider with some measure of detachment the ruthless view taken by the Genghis Khan of Australian politics, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  To think that this Bill should be forced through this Committee in this manner, of course, is desperately offensive. The country is entitled to reflect upon what is involved and all of the implications of the Bill. I only hope that you,  Sir, with  your splendidly detached attitude towards contemporary politics, will observe that no less than 10 minutes is given for the Committee debate and 10 minutes for the third reading debate! The Minister for Services and Property takes this lofty and lusty view of democracy. Can any person in this country seriously contend that this is sufficient time to consider some 45 clauses? Whatever the differences between us may be- I am-prepared to concede that they are significant- why not give us some 10 years? 
-I think the Minister needs 10 years. If I had the opportunity I certainly would give him 10 years- and it would not be quiet labour, as is the case at the moment; it would hard labour. 
I sought in the second reading debate to point out some of the dangers that abound in this Bill. The Special Minister of State sat in his place, as did the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who has an affection for his views that can only be described as one of the great love affairs of the twentieth century. I am trying to pull up the Government into a realisation that this is a most significant Bill and that it deserves a gentle, quiet and detached approach. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  yawns- this parens patri of the country who puts his prejudice ahead of all other considerations. I have read this Bill - 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Killen's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
-This is a most remarkable Bill. I suppose that in 75 years of federation no Parliament has seen its like. I express the hope that in the next 75 years no Parliament will see its like. I would describe this as a 'tears and laughter' Bill. I have never seen a Bill with such an exquisite array of language which would enable one, on the one hand, to be swept to tears and, on the other hand, to be swept into wild, exuberant laughter. That is precisely what this Bill does. It is reflective, on the one hand, of a philosophy which, of course, is being slowly entrenched by the present Government- bit by bit, day by day, month by month- that is, the creation of the monolith state where all judgment, all virtue, all propriety are to be determined by one central authority. That is the Government's objective. I suppose that one at least should pause to acknowledge the candour of members of the Government Party in that as a rule they do not disguise the fact that that is their objective. 
That is the first comment to be made about this Bill. This Bill takes a massive step in the direction of creating the monolith state. It is a most pretentious display of arrogance. It takes the view that all commercial judgment is best exercised by a centralised commission. It gives, one could say, an immaculate portrayal of the philosophy of our opponents- that is, to create the monolith, centralised and bureaucratic state. It is superbly portrayed in this Bill. Yet, it goes from that state of concern to a position where it would be possible under the provisions of the Bill to have a Minister- I single out the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  because he comes readily to mind- flung into gaol. I suppose it had to happen that a state created commission -the creature of a deliberate act of Parliamentwould seek to confer on a commission power to impose a fine upon a government department. That is an argument which I propose to prove later. Could we think of anything more absurd than a situation such as that? Before I turn to that, let me endorse the argument which has been pressed upon us this afternoon by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  He has dealt with the down to earth, commonsense considerations that must exercise the mind of every person who reads this Bill. 
I turn, for example, to the definitions clause of the Bill. We would welcome from the Minister an explanation of why the Government has been constrained to include in the definition of governmental body ' the Government of a State. Has there been any expression of opinion by any government of a State that it wants its purchasing done for it by the Commonwealth Purchasing Commission? I am wondering whether the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is unfailingly courteous- with, I suppose, one or two minor blemishes- is prepared to table the correspondence that he has had from, say, the Premier of South Australia, writing in terms of unfeigned friendship: 'My dear Lionel'. I doubt that the Minister would get a letter like that from the Premier of Queensland, but who knows? I wonder whether the honourable gentleman has had a letter from the Premier of Queensland saying: 'My Dear Minister, we have heard with interest and affection the proposal to establish a Purchasing Commission. We would be grateful if you would include us in the ambit of your activities'. No member in this House, no matter what may be our political differences, would seriously contend that State Governments want a Commonwealth Purchasing Commission to do business for them, to buy everything. 
Try to control yourself, my dear chap. 
That would be a rather elaborate undertaking coming from you, I am bound to say. 
Yes. I am receptive to all sorts of things, but as to your advice, I believe in putting it through the milking machine. There is absolutely nothing under the definition of procurement that cannot be fitted in. This was covered by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  earlier in the debate and by the honourable member for Farrer. Literally everything can be done by the Purchasing Commission. I do not mention that by way of complaint at all; I mention it merely to indicate the range of the Bill. Consider the implications of that word 'procurement'. It could even be given that rather bawdy technical interpretation that some people in the outside world leading a more secular existence than ours may have some acquaintance with. 
This Purchasing Commission is to buy for all. One can get 2 versions on this. One can get the version in the second reading speech of the Minister where he said that 3 Government Departments are to be exempted: The Department of the Media- more felicitously, I suggest, to be described as the department of propaganda, but I do not indulge in the acerbities of languagethe Department of Housing and Construction, and, according to the Minister, the Department of Services and Property. Clause 1 1 provides these exemptions for 2 departments. I would be indebted if the honourable gentleman would say where the exemption for the Department of Services and Property is to be found. As the Minister knows, I have a continuing solicitude for the Minister who administers that Department. I would hate him to be told that he is in for something when he has been left out. Listening to the speech of the Special Minister of State, which I did with patience and typical courtesy - 
We are coming to furniture. Take for example the furniture that went to Peking- we might have a word to say about that later on- or the Murray Grey bull which was bought by a government department. I understand he failed his examination first time up, but that is for another day. Under this clause the Department of the Media and the Department of 
Housing and Construction are the 2 departments to be exempted. No explanation is given by the Minister as to why they should be exempted. Why should the Department of the Media be exempted? Has it gathered to itself a quality and a quantity of expertise peculiar to media administration that distinguishes it, say, from the Department of Defence? 'Media? Oh yes, they are all experts in those matters. But when it comes to Defence, they are all stupid '. 
Take the Department of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Why should this Commission do the buying for the Prime Minister's Department? The Commission might say: 'The people in the Prime Minister's Department are inefficient in buying but we will not buy for the Department of the Media because the staff there are great experts'. If one looks at the growing accumulation of blatant propaganda which is put out by the Department of the Media one will probably come closer to understanding why it is exempt. No gathering of commissioners with normal cerebral processes would look at the produce, the accomplishments of the Department of the Media and say: 'This is being done with infinite regard to efficiency on the one hand and to political impartiality on the other, and with a general recognition of the rights and the position of the Australian taxpayer'. 
I turn now to the other department exempted. Why is the Department of Housing and Construction exempted? Has that Department now built up such a substantial body of technical information and technical accomplishment that it should be given an entitlement to be relieved from the overseeing activities of the Purchasing Commission? I am informed that having regard to its activities in the City of Darwin at the moment that would be a rather meagre credential to offer for the Department of Housing and Construction to be given an exemption. But no explanation at all comes from the Minister as to why those 2 departments may be exempted. 
But of course in a Bill of this nature, with 45 clauses, setting up an apparatus singular in Australiaindeed one that would be quite singular around the world- provision has to be made for regulations. No wonder Professor Keeton was moved to write his classic work of years ago, The Passing of Parliament'. No wonder that Lord Chief Justice Hewart was driven to such a state of utter despair as to write his 'The New Despotism'. This Bill, of course, provides for regulations. One could almost hear the Minister giving these sweet assuring words to his departmental people: 'Ah, we had a great day today. We got the provision through that deals with the regulations. Now we will really get into them'. I hope honourable gentlemen, including the Minister, can be prevailed upon to give some heed to this point: Clause 9 provides for those blessed regulations. It states: 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the policies, procedures and practices to be followed by the Commission and Departments and Authorities with respect to matters relating to the procurement of goods, works and services and the disposal of goods. 
I excuse myself from giving any admiration to the style of the language used there, but that for another day. Under this clause regulations may be made- putting it, I hope, into more direct English- for the Commission to direct- not merely guide, but direct- all Government departments as to what they shall do with respect to the procurement of goods, works and services and the disposal of goods. When I read that, in my simplicity of mind I said: 'What if the departments do not obey the regulations?' That just shows what a shallow, mean-minded person I was, to think the Minister and his trusted lieutenants would have left a gap of that nature in the Bill. On the contrary. The last clause of the Bill, clause 45, again contains that great, encouraging word 'regulations'. The Bill comes back to regulations again and states: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act . . . providing for penalties for any contravention of the regulations - 
Sub-clause (a) deals with the penalty in respect of breaches of regulations under clause 16, which we can leave to one side, and sub-clause (b) states that in any other case a penalty shall be a fine not exceeding $100. 1 put this to the Special Minister of State: Suppose Purchasing Commission regulations are issued regarding the carrying out of certain procedures and his own Department- well, I suppose I had better except the Minister; let me be gentle with him and come back to the one who is the Mediterranean of my mind in all political matters, the Minister for Services and Property. Let us assume that the Minister for Services and Property says: 'No. I will not have the rolls for the electorate of Moreton printed at XYZ printery '. 
-Then let us assume that the Minister says: 'I will not have the furniture provided for the electoral office in the Division of Moreton taken from firm XYZ'. Assume he refuses to follow the procedures laid down. What then? The regulations are there. We can fall back on them as though fighting the last battle of the Marne. Out come the regulations, that sturdy last army upon which the Minister may fall back. 
The Minister for Services and Property may have said: 'You can go to Bourke. I will not buy furniture from this firm'. What will the Minister do? He will fine the Department! Really and truly,  Mr Minister!  It finally did have to happen; a Government department can be fined by a Government created commission. The trouble is that this Government has created so many boards that it has created a shortage of timber. It has created so many commissions that it has lost count of them. It would be like counting a mob of 20 000 sheep along a wire netting fence to find out exactly how many there are. This is the utter absurdity to which this Government has been reduced. It is of no avail the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  saying to me that this will not happen. If he says that, it means that there is one law for Ministers and another law for the people outside. The regulation would be a regulation of general application and the Minister knows jolly well that this is the case. We would seek during the- 
It is just as well the fertility of my mind is there to enable me to follow the Minister through the labyrinth of his thinking. Let me turn to one or two of the more conspicuous features of this remarkable Bill- this tears and laughter Bill adverted to by my friend the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  Clause 15 deals with information being made available to a Minister. I do not say this lightly against my friend, the Special Minister of State, who is sitting at the table, but I am not prepared to confer this power upon all Ministers who serve with him. The clause provides that the Minister may, in writing, give notice to any Permanent Head of a department and tell him te produce pronto any document which in his opinion he believes have some relevance to the activities of the Purchasing Commission. Then there is another provision which says that that must be done, notwithstanding the fact that a law says that he should not release those documents. The language used is: 
Notwithstanding the provision of any other law ... the information available would contravene the provisions of another law, would be contrary to the Public interest or make him liable to a penalty. 
Let us take the case of secrecy. I shall give the Minister one simple illustration. Let us say there is an argument about the stock of ammunition available and the Minister says : 'I want to make available to the Commission the files dealing with the war reserves of ammunition'. Those files would be cleared on top security only and would be passed by hand - they are not things which are put in the post and which one hopes for the best will arrive. There are many people serving in departments the Minister knows this only too well and it is not a reflection upon those people, it is just a fact of life who are not cleared to top security. Yet a file of that description could be flung around for some person to see. It could have calamitous consequences for this country. I invite the Minister to reflect seriously upon that point. 
The last clause to which I refer, albeit briefly, before I sit down and we subject the Minister to the charity of our inquiry as to what some of the detailed provisions mean, provides that the Commission may make a charge for the goods so supplied. What sort of a charge does the Minister contemplate? Does he propose to follow what was recommended by the Scott report, albeit recommended by implication and not by explicit undertaking? Is the Commission to charge 2 per cent, 5 per cent or what? 
We would be indebted to the Minister. 
The Minister says that it is in the Bill. The amount under clause 18 - 
-Yes, I have and that would distinguish you from me. Under clause 18, dealing with the charge by the Commission, the Minister may make a charge. There is no 'shall' about it. That is the first observation I make. I would be interested to know whether this gives to the Commission the opportunity to say: 'Well, there it is, the Minister for Services and Property had a bit of a rough time in Parliament with respect to the purchase of furniture for our embassy in Peking and the purchase of the Murray Grey bull to send over there. We will excuse him from any charge which may be made'. 
I think it is up to the Minister to make it clear to the House exactly what departments may be exempted from a charge. The Minister says to look at clause 34.I have looked at it as has the honourable gentleman. It states: 
There shall be credited to the Trust Account, in addition to the amounts referred to in sub-section 18(3), amounts appropriated by the Parliament from time to time for the purposes of the Trust Account. 
No indication is given to us as to whether the amounts appropriated shall be $200m, $240m or anything else. 
-Sub-clause (2) of clause 34 states: 
There shall be debited to the Trust Account the amount of the cost to the Commission of goods acquired by the Commission for supply as required to Departments, Authorities or Government bodies approved by the Minister including salaries, wages and other expenses in connexion with that acquisition. 
There is absolutely nothing there which says that the amount is to be 4 per cent of the total cost or 40 per cent of it. I think the Parliament is entitled to an explanation as to where that stands. I conclude my remarks in the same way as I began. This is a remarkable Bill, the likes of which we have not seen in the last 75 years. I warmly hope that we will not see its likes in the next 75 years. I look forward to a completely untrammelled debate in Committee when we consider the clauses in detail. 
-Does the Minister for Defence regard the decision to buy the Orion reconnaissance aircraft as an important one? If the honourable gentleman does hold that opinion, does he offer any explanation to this House as to why the decision was announced outside the House when the Parliament was sitting? Further, does the honourable gentleman take the view that such excessive discourtesy should be treated with agreement? 
-I recall vividly the occasion to which the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has just referred. Whatever assessment may be made of that occasion, I think the honourable gentleman does not do the institution of Parliament any service by seeking to vindicate this tawdry proceeding by advertising it. 
No, my conscience is quite clean about that occasion. 
Unlike the Minister, I have at least been able to find one. The argument that has been pressed upon us by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is that the Bills relating to electoral redistributions are urgent measures. What is the urgency of them? For the first time, I believe, in the history of the nation, redistribution proposals are now projected in the form of legislation. I would have thought it quite proper for the House to consider the implications of that for a start, but the Minister is asking us to be content with 10 minutes for the second reading debate on each of the 5 Bills. It may comfort the honourable gentleman to think that this is a good idea, but what value to the institution of Parliament are the levity of expression to which he resorted and the charges he made about the past? The Parliament is supposed to be a talking shop. 
Oh, yes, and whatever derision that may encourage from wherever it may come in this country, Parliament has a right to talk and a right to discuss its business. That right is not being supported today when the second reading debate on each of the 5 Bills is to take 10 minutes. The Committee stages can only be described- I agree with the moderation used by my friend, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)-  are an absolute farce. Would any person with any feeling for the institution of Parliament be proud of this proceeding this afternoon? Could the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting opposite me, go out into the country and, with a clear conscience say: 'Yes, this was a great, lofty proceeding; we put through 5 Bills dealing with the redistribution of electorates in a matter of a few hours'? I put to one side completely the merit of the proposals. 
I have objected in the past to the Parliament being regarded and treated as though it were a sausage factory. That is the simple issue which is involved on this occasion. I appeal to the Minister for Services and Property to abandon this device. Of course on some occasions governments are obliged to resort to the guillotine, but this afternoon no case has been made out to justify this miserable, contemptible, demeaning gesture. Even though the Minister may have the numbers today, I warn him that the wheel does turn full circle and the time will come, despite his threats, when he may find himself on the Opposition side of the House, and his arrogance will not avail him in the least. The Minister may win today, but the day will come when the Minister will find himself being afflicted by something that may possibly remind him of this day. This is a shabby, mean, despicable manoeuvre, and I am glad to see that the Minister at least identifies it as such. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female sperm whales have been got by vessels sailing out of Albany, Western Australia, in each of the years 1 953 to 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What committees, commissions and/or boards of inquiry were appointed by the Australian Government to inquire into educational problems and issues in 1973-74. 
Which of the bodies so appointed have completed their inquiries, and what expenditure was incurred by each body. 

 - Mr Speaker, as one who knew our late colleague very well and who knows his family very well, may I be associated personally with this motion. There were significant political differences between the late senator and myself, but he never allowed a difference in any way to diminish the friendship between the two of us. I have spent many very happy hours with him and with his family, arguing over a great variety of things; but right throughout such arguments 2 qualities always emerged- a powerful, unfailing sense of humanity and a quite unwavering sense of humour. I can recall writing to him shortly before his death, when he was stricken with an illness, to say that there was nothing very much wrong with him and that half a bottle of rum and a rub down with some of it would cure anything that was wrong with him. My friend wrote back and said that he did not believe in using rum for the purposes of embrocation. That was typical of him. Bert Milliner leaves a very devoted and very dedicated family. Our hearts and prayers go out to them today. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces recommend that a computer system be introduced for personal and pay records for all Reserve personnel; if so, has action been taken to implement the recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many civilians were employed by the Defence Services on: 
4 December 1973 and 
26 May 1975 
-The House turns its attention to a Bill which is compendiously described as the Defence Force ReOrganisation Bill 1975. It may seem at first blush to resort to the platitude to describe this Bill as one of far reaching significance. But it is, nevertheless, a Bill which in terms of the defence services of this country is most certainly the most far reaching Bill which has ever been introduced into this Parliament. 
Having said that, I am wondering whether I may lay bare my attitude to the Bill, to its sponsors and to the Government. May I make it clear- I trust pluperfect clear- that for my part those who serve in the armed services are persons for whom I have nothing but unfeigned admiration and affection. For those who serve in the Public Service, supporting them, I have nothing but the utmost respect. Many of them are men and women with whom I have worked intimately over a long period. Many of them are men and women I have known in this place for some 20 years. That is a long time to be able to survive politically in this place. 
I know that there is a pang of regret from some honourable gentlemen opposite, but at least I have been able to escape their ingenuity, whether cultivated or real. So, when I turn to this Bill I hope that no person in this House or outside of it will take the view that I am seeking to put a point of opinion which in any way is calculated to incite, cultivate or lead to any sense of antagonism between those who serve in the armed Services and those who are in the Public Service of this country. This is, as I say, a Bill which is of very great consequence to  this country. Those remarks are by way of preliminary observation. 
May I proceed to give on behalf of the Opposition our stand and our attitude with respect to defence? I can do it in capsule form. I think that the simple reality of Australia's responsibility today is that we are very much on our own and that we have indeed a completely new gathering of responsibilities. Nothing should be done in this country in any way to detract from the totality of our effort. 
Quite crucial to Australia's defence is our defence organisation. It is not enough that we have courage galore and equipment at our disposal. Courage and equipment are 2 splendid estatestrie quality of courage and the capacity to say: Yes, these Services are perfectly equipped'. That is not enough. We must have a defence organisation that meets the requirements of contemporary circumstances. It is against that background that one considers the circumstances in relation to which this Bill has been drawn. 
Unless there is a defence organisation that has an efficient administrative capacity, nothing availeth. I do not seek to comport myself with the opinions of my own creation in this field. I would like to assure my honourable friend opposite, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison),  and all his colleagues and supporters, that in no way have I sought to elevate what one might regard as one's own opinion on this matter. I have reached out with no other discipline than the discipline of my own profession, which is given to searching for facts. I have been encouraged no end to inquire with the depths of discovery and indeed anxiety as to the real significance of this Bill. 
I have turned away from what may have been my own opinions and my own disposition as to the significance of administration in defence matters. I have gone to probably two of the greatest military commanders that our contemporary generation has ever known. 
I have gone in the first place to an opinion expressed by Field-Marshal Montgomery. I beg of my friends opposite not to treat this as some jocose matter. We are dealing with the safety of our nation. Surely to heavens that must command some priority of importance. Dealing with the subject of administration, Field-Marshal Montgomery in his celebrated  A History of Warfare:  made the following observation. 
In my own case, I very soon learnt by hard experience that the administrative situation in rear must be commensurate with what I wanted to achieve in battle in the forward area. 
That is a simple, stark, commanding expression of opinion. I looked also at the view offered by 
Field-Marshal Wavell in his Trinity College lecture at Cambridge in 1 939. 
If we could bring the Minister for Services and Property up to date it would be a handsome reward. I am sorry that the Minister has seen nothing more angry in the matter of conflict than the sights of Kings Cross. FieldMarshal Wavell was impressed by the views of Socrates.  (Honourable members interjecting)- 
Honourable members opposite may laugh at that. 
The Minister for Defence takes the same view as Stalin did of the Pope. How many divisions does he command, overlooking the power of prayer? May I observe in passing about honourable members opposite that thou art desperately in need of it. Wavell went back to Socrates. Nothing has happened since which has in any way disturbed this. Socrates observed that the general must know how to get his men their rations and every other kind of stores needed for war. Wavell went on to make this observation: 
It begins with the matter of administration, which is the real crux of generalship, to my mind; and places tactics, the handling of troops in battle, at the end of his qualifications instead of at the beginning, where most people place it. 
No less a commander than Wavell placed administration ahead of tactics. I think that this House should be cautioned as to what this Bill is all about by the splendid injunctions of those two great commanders of our experience. 
Some honourable members opposite have adopted what I can describe only as a view that is based essentially on levity. Can honourable members imagine what would happen if this country were attacked? , 
At least the enemy would have more on its side than  Blue Poles  and the Minister for Services and Property. I was about to call him the Minister for Security! Fancy describing him as the Minister for Security. I do not think he could keep a gaol if he were locked up in Long Bay himself. 
This Bill is concerned with defence administration. It has 187 clauses; it has 10 Schedules. It seeks to amend no fewer than 14 Acts of Parliament. Before I come to what I would describe as the main thrust of the Bill I wish to deal with one or two peripheral matters. I do so without any offence to the authors of the Bill. I say to the Government: This Bill has been drawn by a Government which has a sturdy sense of commitment to a pseudo-nationalism. One finds throughout the Bill that the word 'Commonwealth' is being eliminated. I hope the House understands that the word 'Commonwealth' is being eliminated. 

 Mr KILLEN I am grateful to the honourable member for the interjection. Honourable members opposite do not even know where to divide the blame for that blemish in performance. I think it is about time that supporters of the Government abandoned their sense of solecism in this direction and read some of the history books. Our nation is not the Australian nation; it is the Commonwealth of Australia. I hope the Minister for Defence will pay some heed to that. If, for example, he looks at the Commonwealth of Austrafia Constitution Act he will find recited there words to the effect that the 'people of the various States, uniting under the province of Almighty God, have agreed to unite in one indissoluble Commonwealth'. Section 1 of our Commonwealth Constitution speaks of the legislative power of the Commonwealth. Section 51 speaks about the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth. Section 61 speaks about the executive power of the Commonwealth. Section 71 speaks about the judicial power of the Commonwealth. I am fed up with what I would describe as the phantom intellectuals who are seeking to create the impression that the term Commonwealth of Australia' is an anachronism. One finds that no better represented than in this Bill. I move on to what may be regarded by some as a matter of no import- the dropping of the term 'Royal Australian Air Force '. 
I will tell the Minister for Defence this: I have been through this Bill with the anxiety and the discipline of one given over to examining the creations of the Government of which he is a member and I have found, for example, that clause 112 of the Bill seeks to amend section 4 of the Courts- Martial Appeals Act by dropping the term 'Royal Australian Commonwealth'. It does not avail the Minister or any of his supporters to say: 'Oh, well, my predecessor- the former Minister for Defencedid not worry very much about this '. It may be to some a minutia, but why do it? It does not affect anything. It is one of the most vulgar, egregious displays of republicanism that has ever been made by the present Government. Even if the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is trying to interject, were swept to a sense of ecstasy to command the normal cerebal processes, I would not expect him to understand what I am talking about, but who would have known that the honourable gentlemen, even by accident, may have lightened upon what is involved. 
I said 'Royal Australian Air Force'. Why delete the term 'Royal Australian Air Force' from the Courts-Martial Appeals Act. 
I would not expect the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, who has interjected with a sense of vigour which would startle a blancmange, to understand what I am talking about. I come to the main thrust of the Bill. 
I am delighted that the Minister receives my views with such enthusiasm. Let me tell the House in short form what this Bill does. It represents a form of impertinence, of course. It has presumed upon the approval of this Parliament, that the Parliament would approve of the Bill. A lot that has been done has been done administratively. The Bill in a very real sense is something that hovers precariously between being a paradox and being a sham. 
Let me invite the House to consider the fact that the Bill proposes the abolition of the 3 Service boards- the Military Board, the Naval Board and the Air Board- two of them creatures of statute; one of them a creation by dint of regulation, and so in a very real sense, I suppose, also a creation of statute. It seeks for the first time in the experience of this country to establish a Chief of Defence Force Staff- a supremo. It seeks for the first time to create in defence what is described by one of the authors of the Bill as a diarchy. I do not know whether it is a sign of incipient old age that I shrink from dogma, but I have yet to be convinced that a diarchy is a form of organisation that flourishes. One can go back to the emperor Theodosius who graced this earth in the fourth century BC. One can proceed from there on and try to find an example of a diarchical organisation working. It seems to me to be a rather curious indulgence in intellectual vanity to believe that we can enable it to work today. 
I draw the attention of the House to what may be described, I think not inappropriately, as being the very centrepiece of this legislation, and that is clause 7 which on the one hand proposes to repeal sections 8, 9 and 9A of the Defence Act and at the same time revives those sections in new form. One of the proposed new sections says that the Chief of Defence Force Staff shall command the Defence Force. I hesitate to inflict on the House my own opinion as to what that may be. But I cannot, nevertheless, refrain from saying that I have the utmost doubt as to the constitutional validity of the purported conferment of the command in chief of the armed Services upon any person. It is in clear conflict, in my opinion, with section 68 of the Constitution which vests the command in chief of the military Services in the Governor-General. It may be true that by dint of the conventions of responsible government over the years that command in chief vested in the Governor-General has been trammelled by the fact that upon the advice of the Executive Council the Governor-General exercises that power. But here is an attempt to alter explicitly section 68 of the Constitution. I invite my friend, the Minister for Defence, to consider just that. 
Even though that may be regarded as some curious sentimental grievance, I turn to what is the major effect of this Bill. There is to be provided a joint administration of the armed Services of the defence forces between the Secretary of the Department of Defence and the Chief of the Defence Force Staff. There are 2 exceptions to that by dint of proposed new section 9a. One is matters falling within the command of the Defence Force and the other is any other matter specified by the Minister. I ask the Minister for Defence quite purposefully: What is described or defined as a matter of command? What is a matter of administration?  His  distinguished predecessor said that ministerial directives establishing the arrangement had been drafted in full consultation amongst the Chiefs of Staff. Why have they not been made public? They deserve to be made public. 
What I am putting to my honourable friend is simply this: The capacity to distinguish between matters of command and matters of administration can in certain circumstances become almost impossible, and this is the very centre of anxiety of this Bill. If one were to look, for example, at annex E of the Report on the Reorganisation of the Defence Group of Departments- the Tange Committee's report- one would find, for example, that a great variety of matters have been conferred upon the civilian side of the authority at the disposal of the Department of Defence. I refer to matters, for example, such as strategic policy and force development, supply and support services, resources and financial programs, defence manpower, organisation and management services, defence research and development and so on. I want to invite the Minister to tell the House where are the limits to matters of command and matters of administration. 
May I indulge myself to this extent in the luxury of observing: What a curious way to run a defence force that the Minister of the day may seek to say: 'Well, here is a matter which in my opinion comes within one of the exceptions '. I do not seek to recapitulate upon some of the very profound disquiet which has been echoed in a variety of ways throughout the defence Services of this country. But I do say this: Despite the view offered by people who hold a desperately elevated opinion of their own importance that they are clever, the far reaching significance of this Bill deserves further examination. The great paradox of this Bill is that its precise definition of those matters which are matters of command and matters of administration are not stated, and they deserve to be stated. It is a matter of infinite regret that the Tange Committee's report- and please, I trust, no person will be disposed to say: Oh, you have had an opportunity to consider it since November 1 973 '-has in fact not been considered by this Parliament. I invite the Minister to give us an account of the sense of consideration given to this matter by the Cabinet. 
Yes. I venture the view that it was put through in about half an hour. I invite the Minister to give an account of what was done with respect to the consideration of this Bill. For these reasons on behalf of the Opposition I move this amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of the House for a consideration of, and a report on, the clauses of the Bil!'. 
The amendment does not take up any emphatic, dogmatic, doctrinal point of view with respect to the Bill. I have sought to express something of my own personal anxiety- I trust in a reflective way, not in a partisan way. I hope that my friend, the Minister for Defence, will find it within his disposition to agree with what has been expressed. 
If the authors of this Bill take the view that this Bill commands the splendid virtues that have been asserted, surely there will not be the slightest hesitation to allow the Bill to be put to the scrutiny of close and earnest examination. We are not dealing with a Bill which seeks to advance the cause of one political party as against another. We are dealing with a Bill which involves the essential integrity of this nation. In my view, as a consequence, we are invited by dint of that circumstance to behave with circumspection and, I trust, with a sense of responsibility 
I must apologise to the Committee for having succumbed to the taunts of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison).  He said that the dropping of the term 'Commonwealth' was not part of the Government's program. I wish to draw the Committee 's attention to what is clearly part of what I describe as a sturdy commitment of attachment to pseudo-nationalism. 
It is all right for the Minister for Defence to interject and to say 'rubbish'. I want to give a clear illustration of what is a harmless provision in an Act and to invite the Committee 's attention to the significance of what the Government is doing. Clause 4, paragraph (c) states: 
By omitting the definition of 'The Commonwealth '; 
I ask the Minister: What is the purpose of this? 
The honourable gentleman was not in the chamber when I drew attention to the fact - 
I am sorry. I obviously made very slender impression on the honourable gentleman. I drew attention to the fact that section 1 of our Constitution bespeaks the uttering together in one indissoluble Commonwealth and the fact that the legislative power under section 51 is invested in the Commonwealth. Honourable members opposite may laugh about this sort of thing, but if the Government wants to alter it, alter it meaningfully, alter it consciously, if I may say so with great respect, why not seek to alter it honestly? But here we have this provision dropping the term 'Commonwealth'. No explanation has tumbled from the lips of the Minister. I suppose that is a graphically mixed metaphor- to get anything to tumble from his lips. Nothing came from his predecessor as to the reason for the provision for what I describe as this gypsylike amendment. Why the provision to drop the term 'Commonwealth'? It is in keeping with the Government's planned program to extinguish from all public record in this country the term Commonwealth'. I have already alluded to the provisions of our own Constitution in sections 1, 51 and 61. They refer to the executive power of the Commonwealth, not of Australia, and to the judicial power of the Commonwealth. I can only describe the Minister's coming in here illequipped, not even bothering to give an explanation, as a thorough-going display of impertinence. 
I would like to know who gave the drafting instructions. Who was it who consciously set down and said: 'I want the word 'Commonwealth' estinguished from the Defence Act'? Who is he? The Minister must answer for this. I tell the honourable gentleman that in one case he must have gone to sleep, because the term 'Commonwealth' was not deleted, but we will come to that later on. I invite the Minister to give an explanation as to why the term 'Commonwealth' was dropped. 
Let me move on to paragraph (e) of clause 4. 1 hope I can persuade the honourable and learned Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to listen to me. My problem is the huskiness in my throat. Water will not cure it. I need something stronger. Paragraph (e) makes this provision: by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section:- 
Unless the contrary intention appears, in this Act or in any other law- 
a reference to the Naval Forces or the Navy shall be read as a reference to the Australian Navy: 
Why not the Royal Australian Navy? It goes on: 
a reference to the Military Forces or the Army shall be read as a reference to the Australian Army; 
a reference to the Air Force shall be read as . a reference to the Australian Air Force; 
I have already drawn attention to the fact that under the Courts-Martial Appeals Act the term Royal Australian Air Force' is dropped. Do not let the honourable gentleman come in here with his cultivated foreign affairs personality trying to convince me that the term 'Royal Australian Air Force ' is not being dropped. 
The honourable gentleman indulges in these talks. He says: 'You have not read the Bill'. I suppose one of my faults is that I do read Bills. Clause 1 12 of this Bill seeks to alter section 4 of the Courts-Martial Appeals Act, and the term 'Royal Australian Air Force' is dropped. Why? There is no explanation from the Minister. There was no explanation from his predecessor who is slugging it out on board a ship travelling to Europe. The honourable gentleman says to me: 'Oh, you have not read the Bill'. He now has to go over to his advisers to get advice. Can honourable members imagine him sitting at the table on his own consulting his own cerebral processes? What a dangerous process it would be; what an impoverishing process it would be; what a hopeless process it would be. There is no explanation from the honourable gentleman at all as to why in that one instance in clause 4 the term 'Commonwealth' is dropped, no explanation as to why in any other Act it is to be the Air Force'. It is all very fine to point to the Air Force Act and to say - 
-I am dealing with the Royal Australian Air Force. It is a proud name, a proud title. It has been borne by very many gallant men and women, and I will not lightly stand in this Parliament and see that name expunged from the statute without wringing an explanation from the Minister responsible. I hope there is no ambiguity about that. That is all I ask of the honourable gentleman. 
Excited? You have never seen me excited. I will tell you what; if the honourable gentleman did see me excited he would take to his heels as though he were appearing on Judgment Day. 
Unlike the honourable gentleman, it is not the air waves that interest me; it is this Parliament. I ask of the Ministers: Give us manfully, give us directly an explanation as to why in clause 4 the term 'Commonwealth' is to be abandoned and give us an explanation, in God's name, as to why he seeks to remove by dint of proposed new section 4 (2) (c) from any other Act the term 'Royal Australian Air Force'. I say to the honourable gentleman, without any heat, without any malice at all, that I think this Committee, this Parliament, is entitled to an explanation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Was the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces critical of the administrative system and procedures existing in the Citizen Military Forces. 
) Were recommendations made with respect to administration; if so, what action has been taken to implement them. 
-When this Bill was in Committee last evening I asked the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)-  I thought, in terms of politeness and reason- to give the Committee an explanation of why the nomenclature in many parts of the Bill had been altered. It was not as though one were indulging in some captious form of criticism. The request was made with politeness and reason. But the Minister was emboldened to embark upon a course that I can only describe as not doing himself justice as a gentleman and as a Minister of the Crown. But let us put to one side his exuberance of spirit and come to the explanation that he has offered. I think that the Committee, the Parliament and the country are entitled to an explanation when alterations of these characters are made. I ask the Minister again whether he would mind adverting to this matter. 
I am not going to argue the merits of the stand that I take. What I am submitting to the Committee is that the stand taken by the Government is tainted with illegality. 'Commonwealth of Australia' is the proper term to be used. The term 
Australia' is not. I speak now in the constitutional sense. I gave the Minister section after section of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act. But what was the reason given by the Minister last evening? I ask the honourable members to listen to it. He said: 
The reason why the definition of Commonwealth is excluded from the new Bill is that the definition of Commonwealth in the old legislation said: 
The Commonwealth' includes the territories of the Commonwealth to which this Act extends. 
In point of fact, the section which is being amended by the clause presendy under consideration reads as follows: 
This Act shall extend to the Territories of the Commonwealth as if each of those Territories were pan of the Commonwealth. 
What is the Minister putting in its place? He is putting in this: 
This Act extends to the external Territories as if each of those Territories were part of Australia. 
I am not asking this in any sense of obstinacy. If the Government wants to behave like a collection of gypsies, it will be treated as such. During the Minister's speech last night I interjected; 
Like Christmas Island. 
I ask honourable members to listen to the extraordinary statement that the Minister made in reply to my interjection. He said: 
The honourable gentleman would be very much aware that Christmas Island is not a territory of the Commonwealth. 
I think it is about time he brought himself up to date. The former honourable member for Stirling,  Mr Webb,  is the Administrator of Christmas Island. Christmas Island, whether the Minister likes it or not, is a Territory of the Commonwealth of Australia. If that is the basis of the honourable gentleman's argument, it does not dismiss or diminish our anxiety on the point; on the contrary, it heightens it. I ask the honourable gentleman- I trust that if I offend him in any way at all he will draw my attention to it- in terms of simple civility: Will he please give the Committee a reason why the term 'Commonwealth' is being dropped throughout the Bill. If the Minister would do that, I think we would be able to make progress at a pace that might even bring pleasure to his frame. 
-Clause 7 is what I described last evening as the central feature of this Bill. It seeks to repeal sections 8, 9 and 9a of the principal Act, namely, the Defence Act. That central feature is the purported conferment upon a Chief of  Defence  Force Staff of command of the Defence Force. Again I asked, during the course of my speech in the second reading debate, whether the  Minister  for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  would give an explanation of the apparent conflict- I put it no harsher than that- with section 68 of the Constitution. I do not take the view that this legislative flourish can put at nought the constitutional provisions which exist in section 68 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution. 
But let us put that to one side. I want to come to the exceptions in proposed section 9a, of which sub-section ( 1 ) states: 
Subject to section 8, the Secretary -  meaning the Secretary of the Department of Defence-  and the Chief of Defence Force Staff shall jointly have the administration of the Defence Force except with respect to - 
The sub-section then gives the 2 exceptions, one being matters falling within command and the other those matters specified by the Minister. I deal with the second exception. I invite the honourable gentleman to give the Committee an indication of what matters may be specified by the Minister. I also invite the honourable gentleman to give an account of how he assesses possible difficulties of Ministers coming and goings and changing their minds so that a matter is not within the joint control of the Secretary of the Department and the Chief of Defence Force Staff. I believe that this is quite crucial if we are to have a fluctuation of ministerial edict as to what comes within the second exception, I think we will have a very curiously administered Defence Force. 
But, more importantly, I turn to the first exception; that is to say, matters falling within command. I express my misgivings- again I put it no more emphatically than that- as to the efficiency of running a diarchy, and that is precisely what is involved here. The Minister attempted, during the course of his speech winding up the second reading debate, to define what is meant by 'command '.He said this: 
Command is to be taken as meaning the authority which a commander in the military service lawfully exercises over his subordinates by virtue of rank or appointment. 
There is no difficulty in comprehending that. He went on to say: 
Command includes the authority and responsibility for effectively using available resources and for planning the employment of, organising, directing, co-ordinating and controlling military forces in the accomplishment of assigned duties. 
The proposition I put to my friend is this: Under that definition, which is the one he embraces, there is not one matter that could not be properly described as being administrative. So I say to the honourable gentleman: It is not as though one can, with surgical accuracy, divide matters of administration from matters of command. This is exactly the area that has given rise to widespread anxiety throughout the country. 
The honourable gentleman last evening indulged himself to make, I thought, some rather ungenerous references to  Dr Millar,  a very distinguished Australian. He taunted my colleagues and me with the view that every sentiment uttered by us had the fountain of origin in  Dr Millar's  writings. With great respect to my friend- it is my Irish mood of agreeableness that prompts me to say this to him- that is simply not true. We are quite capable of forming opinions on these matters for ourselves upon proper inquiry, upon proper reflection and upon proper discussion with people who have views in this field. The Minister has not put at rest the anxiety that exists in this field. As was so cogently pointed out last evening by my friend, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  this is the question: What are matters of administration and what matters of command? It is not enough for the Minister to read out a definition and to say: 'Look, here it is. This should satisfy you. Go back and be rested with the assurance that I know what matters of command are'. I venture the view that considerable confusion will occur in this field. The Minister's recitation of a definition of a command is unsatisfying and is unhelpful. But let us take the matter a little further. The Minister's distinguished predecessor when he made his second reading speech on this Bill, said: 
Ministerial directives establishing the arrangements for the inter-relation of the high level Service and civilian positions in sharing of responsibility in appropriate areas, and stating the responsiveness expected of the departmental structure to the operational priorities of the Chiefs of Staff, have already been drafted, in full consultation among the Chiefs of Staff and Secretary. 
There is a teasing measure of ambiguity about that statement. I could have a full consultation with the Minister for Defence but one could not reasonably draw from that the conclusion that we were in splendid agreement about the matter. 
Why have these directives not been made public? If the directives have been drawn and are in existence already, is there any reason why this Parliament should not have access to them? I invite the Minister to settle our anxiety on that point. It is to no avail the Minister taking a position of dogmatism on this point. We have our anxiety. We are not seeking to impale one side or the other. What we are asking of the honourable gentleman and of the Government is simply this: Please give us the information so that we may better form a judgment on these matters. I put what seems to me and what seems to my colleagues to be the gravamen of our charge that we do not know what are matters of administration and what are matters of command. 
I sum up by referring to the honourable gentleman's own definition. There is not one matter there which falls under a matter of command that could not, without resorting to any fertility of imagination, be put under a matter of administration. The smears which came from the Government benches last evening to the views offered by two of the greatest commanders in history, Montgomery and Wavell, do no credit to a Government which dimisses the views of men of courage and of character by saying: 'Ha! You are going back a few years'. That may be true but they were great men and they were responsible for great feats of arms. Their reputation is not to be diminished by smears. As Marshal Wavell himself put it, he ranked administration ahead of tactics. If a man of the eminence of Field-Marshal Wavell puts administration ahead of tactics, then I think it is at least incumbent upon the Commonwealth Minister for Defence to offer an explanation to us why it is in this apparently confused area, the Government is reluctant to give information. 
I will not delay the Committee long. I again make a formal inquiry as to why this amendment is necessary. The effect of this amendment is to take from section 4 of the Courts-Martial Appeals Act the term 'Royal Australian Air Force'. I will not repeat the argument I pressed upon the Committee last night, but I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  whether he will give an explanation. It is true that the Defence Act does not use the term ' Royal Australian Air Force ', but do not tell me that it is because of symmetry of drafting or a passionate desire to have a splendid sense of uniformity running throughout all defence legislation that the term 'Royal Australian Air Force' is being deleted from the CourtsMartial Appeals Act. 
I shall not, and my colleagues shall not, seek to delay the passage of the Bill through this chamber. We rest with the assurance that another place in all probability will examine the Bill at a public hearing, because that is what it needs. I am sorry that we were not able to convince the Minister as to the merit of that argument last evening although, if I may say in summary, I thought he came perilously close to accepting our argument. He listened to the speeches- I repeat, the very cogent speeches- of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  I thought: 'Well, there it is, Killen. You have failed to convince him, but those 2 stirring speeches and the speech of my honourable and robust friend from Kennedy have convinced him'. One could almost see the look of apostasy on his face as though he were about to go over to the other side. 
Probably when the Bill gets to another place we will find out a little more about it than the Minister has been pleased to assure us. I ask him again on the basis of simple candour and friendship and I trust in terms of courtesy whether he will please give us an explanation as to why the term 'Royal Australian Air Force' is being dropped from the Courts-Martial Appeals Act. . 
-I suppose I should apologise to the House for inflicting myself once again upon it, but I will not delay the House very long. The Opposition supports the Defence Force Ombudsman Bill. Its purpose is to establish an ombudsman to examine complaints in the area of defence administration. I suppose one would be at liberty to foresee some difficulty, should the matter of administration come up, if a person in the defence area says: 'No, this is not a matter of administration; it is a matter of command '. So no doubt the Ombudsman 's ingenuity will be put to the test in that area. The purpose of the Bill was summed up by the previous Minister for Defence quite succinctly in his second reading speech. At the risk of wearying the House may I recapitulate what that honourable gentleman said. He said: 
The function of the Defence Force Ombudsman will be to investigate complaints made by members of the defence force, former members of the defence force or their dependants with regard to any action in relation to a matter of administration which arises from the fact that a person is serving or has served in the defence force. 
I suppose it is a matter of notoriety that all Government departments have as one of their constant companions inertia, and frequently this affects serving personnel and their families in a most grievous way, and to that extent the creation of the office of Ombudsman is welcomed. It will enable those who feel that they have been treated in a dilatory fashion, treated unfairly or treated with scant regard for thenproblems to have some redress. I am bound to say that the Bill is a splendid illustration of what I have described as inertia on the part of the Government itself because there has been in existence the office of Ombudsman in a de facto way since November 1973, with a very distinguished Australian,  Mr David  Hay, filling that position. I suppose the mills of God may grind slowly as long as they grind with exactness. In this case it has taken from November 1973 until August 1975 for the Bill to be produced. May I offer just one bland criticism of the Bill: The Bill having been presented on 15 May 1975, we are now greeted with some 17 amendments to it. I would have thought with all my simplicity of mind that it would have been possible for this Bill to be settled in the first place and that it would not have been found necessary for all these amendments to be introduced. 
May I make clear for my part and for the Opposition's part that the Bill does not give to the Defence Force Ombudsman the power to interfere in respect of matters which are disciplinary in nature. If I may put it in a homely way, if a seaman should tell the chief petty officer to go to Bourke, and tender further advice to him, the chief petty officer is not left in some powerless, hapless state of mind unable to rectify the blemish of conduct. One of the proposed amendments to the Bill excites my curiosity. It is amendment (7) which deals with clause 5 relating to the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman. Subclause (3) of clause 5 reads: 
The Defence Force Ombudsman is not authorised by this Act to investigate- 
a) action taken by a Minister; 
action taken by a Justice or Judge of a court established by a law of Australia; 
action taken by a magistrate or coroner of the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; or 
action taken by way of, or in connexion with, proceedings against a member of the Defence Force in respect of a naval, military or air force offence. 
Proposed amendment (7) seeks to omit subclause (4) of clause 5. As I say, this proposal excites my curiosity. Sub-clause (4) reads: 
Where, at any time during an investigation into action taken by the Defence Force or a public authority, the Defence Force Ombudsman becomes of the opinion that the action was taken in the course of giving effect to a decision of the Cabinet, of a Committee of the Cabinet or of a Minister and that the Defence Force or the public authority, as the case may be, did not act improperly in the course of giving effect to that decision, the Defence Force Ombudsman shall not investigate the action further. 
I am interested to know why that sub-clause is being expunged from the Bill. As the Bill now stands the Ombudsman must become seized of an opinion that the action was taken pursuant to, say, a Cabinet decision, and he says- this is the next consideration- it was not taken in properly, and that being the case he should not further investigate the action. Under the proposed amendment that provision will be deleted from the Bill. Is the position then to be that the Ombudsman can investigate a decision taken by the Cabinet? I draw the attention of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  to what would seem to me to be, with great respect, some mild conflict in the Bill, that is that if the Ombudsman cannot investigate an action taken by a Minister it would seem to me, a fortiori, that he could not investigate an action taken by a collection or a grouping of Ministers. If that is the basis upon which the provision in sub-clause (4) becomes unnecessary then it would seem to me to be a rational explanation, but if on the other hand it is to be taken out of the Bill in the expectation that the Ombudsman can investigate action or a decision taken by Cabinet or a sub-committee of the Cabinet it would seem to me to be a rather curious form of trenching into the whole system of responsible government. I invite the Minister when winding up the debate, if he would be good enough, to give an explanation as to why this amendment is proposed. 
-This Bill seeks to amend the United States Naval Communication Station Agreement. It has been hailed in quarters, which I may describe without offence as Australian Labor Party quarters, as representing something in the nature of a coup for the Party and for the Government. I will deal with that assertion later. It may be useful to remind ourselves that the United States Naval Communication Station Agreement has a fascinating history. Before I turn to that history and to the amendments as such, may I presume to remind the House that the Agreement stems from the obligations which this country has under the ANZUS Treaty. The schedule to the original Agreement states: 
The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia . . . 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  will notice that the term 'Commonwealth of Australia 'is used. The schedule continues:   (in this Agreement called 'the Australian Government') and the Government of the United States of America (in this Agreement called 'the United States Government'), 
Recalling the Security Treaty which was concluded at San Francisco between Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America on the first day of September 1951 . . . 
It goes on to state various objectives, and continues: 
Noting, in particular Article II of that Treaty which provides that the parties thereto will separately and jointly maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack. 
Before the articles commence the recital concludes 'Have agreed as follows'. Then follows the various articles. We do well to remind ourselves that when that Agreement was introduced it was bitterly opposed by the Labor Party. If the Labor Party had had its way that Agreement would not have been brought into law in this country. That was in 1963. We can recall, I suppose with a sense of fascination, spectacular photographs taken outside one of the taverns of 
Canberra showing the then Leader of the Opposition, whose memory I revere but whose politics I found myself in singular conflict with, and the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The whole attitude of the Labor Party in 1963 was one of unfeigned opposition to the establishment of the North West Cape base. That is the starting point. 
Various asseverations were made by members of the then Opposition- members of the Labor Party- to the effect that when the Party became the government the base would be shut down. I will deal later with the present policy on that matter. To give some idea of the attitudes of the day- to recall what were the attitudes in 1963- may I presume to remind the House that one honourable member of the Australian Labor Party said of the communications station: 
The radio station to be established will be for war purposes and not for the purposes of peace. 
That was his view. I found myself, of course, in disagreement with it. 
I will come to that later. A newspaper which was the official journal of the Soviet Armed Forces- the  Red Star-spoke  of the base in similar terms. It stated: 
The building of the base, which is close to the area in which the national liberation movement of the people is being intensified, is a particular danger for the countries of South East Asia. 
Those who were in the House on that occasion may recall that I invited honourable members to say which statement appeared in the  Red Star  and which statement was attributed to the member. There was, in short, bitter opposition to the establishment of the base. Has the attitude of the Party which now forms the Government of the country changed? The simple, short answer is no. The attitude of the Government, of the Australian Labor Party, is a continuing one of opposition to the base. I cite the Australian Labor Party's platform, constitution and rules as approved by the 31st National Conference at Terrigal in 1975. It says: 
Labor is opposed to the existence of foreign owned, controlled or operated bases and facilities in Australian territory, especially if such bases involve a derogation from Australian sovereignty. 
I should have thought that that, as a statement, is remarkably free of ambiguity. I repeat the words Labor is opposed to the existence of foreign owned, controlled or operated bases and facilities in Australian territory. 
Is it so? 
I am delighted that the Minister for Defence has said that that is the case. If the Minister commands logic and a sense of purpose he will agree that far from seeking to amend the Agreement the Government would be seeking to rescind it. 
I will come to the matter of joint control later. I suspect that what I say will be somewhat to the discomfort of my honourable friend because, far from seeking to give joint control, the amendment does absolutely nothing of the sort. There are to be 3 amendments to the agreement. Before I deal with them I remind the House that as recently as 1973 the Prime Minister described the communications base at the North West Cape as- mark the description- obnoxious. Indeed, many of his followers have repeated virtually the same sentiment. If something is obnoxious I should have thought that it would have been highly proper, depending upon one's assessment that that is the case, to seek to do something about it. So some time ago the Minister's predecessor was sent to the United States of America to renegotiate the agreement. He went with a great fanfare and with sustained applause from the country. He returned with applause as though he had achieved something of great moment.  His  achievement is to be found in the amendments to the agreement. It is the 3 amendments to which I now turn. I will take first the third one, which seems to be quite beyond not dispute as such but contention or argument. That is the amendment to article 14 which provides that costs incurred directly by the Australian Government on behalf of its armed forces shall, in short, be met. The only amendment to article 14 is the insertion of those words. So there can be no argument that that confers any form of control over the base. That provision deals with amendments concerning costs and costs only. 
The principal amendment is to article 1, which reads as follows: 
In accordance with the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement, the United States Government may establish, maintain and operate a Naval Communication Station (in this Agreement called the 'Station') at North West Cape in the State of Western Australia. 
The amendment being made to that article and which this Bill seeks to bring into municipal law is to the following effect: 
The Station shall be operated by the armed forces of the 2 Governments as a joint facility. 
Precisely nothing is said there about control of the facility. The amendment simply states that the station shall be operated as a joint facility. The present Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  said in his second reading speech on 26 May: 
An amendment to article 1 of the Agreement provides that the station at North West Cape shall be operated jointly while amendment to article 2 limits United States Navy exclusive occupation to a national room and provides for a similar Australian national room. 
The simple fact of life is that no extension of control over the base is provided for. The right of the United States Government to have access to the national room- in short, the right of the United States Government to have access to the highly classified messages which are sent- has not been altered one iota. These 3 amendments represent nothing short of a form of political bromide for the left wing of the Australian Labor Party. The Government is taking the view that the facility will be jointly controlled when it wil be nothing of the sort. The national room of the United States at the base remains one of exclusive occupancy. 
-No. Unlike the honourable gentleman from Port Adelaide who interjects, I favour vigorously the establishment. 
If the honourable gentleman's Party had its way and if it were consistent with its policy it would shut the base down entirely. That is what those words mean. 
Not a bad idea, says my honourable friend from Port Adelaide. 
Yes, exactly. As the honourable member for Lilley suggests, why does the Government not have the courage to declare its policy? Why does it seek to amend the Agreement? Why not seek to rescind it? Both the Liberal and the National Country parties take the view that the base is of prime importance to the integrity and to the safety of this country. We have a responsibility under the ANZUS agreement and that responsibility will be respected immaculately by the Opposition parties, more particularly if we have the opportunity to respect them as parties in government. So I say to the Minister that if he takes the view that he has sedated the more robust and rumbustious elements of his Party by amending the Agreement in these terms, all I can say is that the capacity of those members to understand is even more limited than I have hitherto suspected. This does not alter the control of the base at all. The authority for that is not merely a simple reading of the language concerned but the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who acknowledges the existence of national occupancy- exclusive occupancy- of the national room. 
I sum up simply by saying this: The base is of vital importance to this country. It was established pursuant to the ANZUS Agreement. The ANZUS Agreement is of the utmost importance to this country. Unlike other agreements it is not possible for any nation to get specific performance of an alliance, of a treaty arrangement of this kind. The only thing that one can cash in the ultimate is goodwill. I am bound to say, looking at the record of the Australian Labor Party in terms of cultivating goodwill with the United States of America- not in terms of civility but in terms of mutual respect- that it is an appalling record. Insult after insult has been handed out by Ministers in a Labor government. There has been no attempt to be reasonable or to be rational. As far as the Opposition Parties are concerned, we do not make the slightest apology in acknowledging the importance of the ANZUS Agreement to this country and we do not offer the slightest apology in acknowledging the fact that pursuant to that Agreement stem responsibilities. If one does not have responsibilities under an agreement, the agreement is worthless. If one is not prepared to respond to responsibilities there is no point in entering into an agreement. It is a matter of public record that the Labor Party has committed itself to the policy attitude that all bases in Australia should be shut down. A former  President  of the Australian Labor Party, the honourable member for Port Adelaide - 
I am sorry, Secretary. We are all entitled to a minor degree of error, although the honourable gentleman takes the view that of course he is cloaked with infallibility. 
I am sure that the honourable member was paid handsomely, but judged by our measure probably too extravagantly. Labor is opposed to the existence of foreign owned, controlled or operated bases or facilities in Australia. The amendment put forward by the Labor Party is a simple illustration of the fact that here is a party that has lost the capacity and the courage to follow publicly what it declares by way of policy statements. Here was a splendid opportunity, if the Labor Party were consistent and really believed in what it was declaring, to say: 'We will seek to rescind the agreement'. But instead of that we have this craven attitude seeking to quieten down the more rowdy elements within the Party. 
-Regrettably, I think they are outside probably indulging in prayer, hoping that that will extricate them from the present political distress that presses upon the honourable gentleman's Party. The Opposition does not raise any objection to the Bill as such but it does point to the fact that the amendments do not in any way at all alter the essential character of the agreement and any assertion to the contrary is not merely false; it is a sheer pretence. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cross)  adjourned. 
-The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and myself were once in attendance at a State funeral. He said to the protocol officer: 'Well, how is the hospitality officer?' He looked at him with what Kipling would have described as a webbed and inward turning eye'. He said: 'I am not the hospitality officer at funerals. I am the protocol officer'. 
The honourable gentleman has spent 32 years in this place. I said to him this afternoon that by his looks and by his guile I am left the impression that he has spent exactly twice that number of years in this place. I am bound to use the House as something of a public confessional to say that the honourable gentleman represents the complete and utter exasperation of my life. I have, for some 20 years, been trying to insult him. It is impossible. I once accused him of suffering from the Munchausen syndrome. He said he thought it was a horse running at Randwick but he would check on it. I said: 'Well, we will meet at Phillipi'. He said: 'Don't you put such an indecent proposal to me but I will find out where it is.' 
Many years ago- I hope it is not a breach of personal confidence but something was going on in this place- he said: 'Come and have a drink '. I asked: 'Where?' He said: 'In my room'. He shared, in those days, an office with a very distinguished member of this Parliament, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who has spent 30 years here. We went there. I said: 'Where is the drink? In the filing cabinet?' He pulled out the filing cabinet. Do honourable members know what came out? It was a bottle of Scotch whisky. Do honourable members know what it was filed under? It was ' unity tickets '. 
I am a card carrying member of the Irish Association and it is a matter of some anguish to me to find out that the progenitors of Frederick Michael Daly are not as Irish as he would occasionally make out. I have looked at a different family tree from the one which my friend the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has looked at. I found a Daly crest which bespeaks to this: 'On a wreath of the colours a cat's head erased at the neck and a fronte of a tabby colour holding in the mouth a rat sable'. After having heard that cats were associated with the honourable gentleman I found myself immediately a victim of ailurophobia which, shortly, means a morbid fear of cats. 
I looked at the honourable gentleman's maiden speech, which was delivered in October 1943. What a powerful and forward looking pronunciation that was. Let me recapture something of the spirit of it. He said: 
An essential of the new order- 
That felicitous term would have tumbled out of his mouth-  must be full time employment for all those willing to work. 
There it is. My honourable friend is beyond insult. I have not the slightest doubt that that will go out in the next Australian Assistance Plan as the thoughts of Fred Daly. It is not as though my friend the honourable member for New England has turned his literary talent in the singular to the honourable member for Grayndler. He fell over some time ago, the House will recall, and broke his arm. I found out that he was out walking his dog- a dog which rejoices in the name of Grayndler. I sent him a telegram saying that his behaviour should be reported to the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals but he was not taken aback by that. Australia's poet laureate has turned to the honourable gentleman this evening to mark his 32 years here and this is what has been produced: 
The time has come', Fred Daly said, 
To talk of many things: 
Of parliamentary privilege, 
And how to pull the strings. 
Of why we travel 2nd class 
Though Gough still has his wings. 
As Leader of the House ', said Fred, 
My works have been sublime 
I 've guillotined Bills out of sight, 
To meet the stress of time. 
For 32 long years I've slaved 
And still just in my prime. 
 Yet I must tell you all ', said Fred, 
That I have had a ball. 
My Opposition friends may say 
I've had a lot of gall. 
But when I go they'll doubtless say: "Our Fred was loved by all ' '. ' 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Has the status of the memorandum of arrangements between the United States Government and the Australian Government relating to patrol frigates been changed? I invite the honourable gentleman to agree with me that this memorandum of arrangements is not an agreement for purchase but is an options agreement. If the status of the agreement has not in any way been changed, what justification is there for the contention made in a recent speech by the Treasurer to this effect: Last year we approved the acquisition of a number of major items for the Services, including patrol frigates? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Was it a recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces that an Army Reserve Advisory Council be established to advise the Chief of the General Staff on matters affecting the Reserve; if so, was the recommendation accepted. 
If the Council has been formed, when was its first meeting held. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister inform the Citizen Military Forces Association in Canberra in December 1974 that the Government expected to make a decision on the Millar Committee 's recommendations for preferential housing loans for members of the Army Reserve who have served 6 years or more; if so, has the undertaking been implemented. 
-I begin by thanking the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  for his courtesy in making available to me last night a copy of the statement he has just read to the House. Nevertheless, I tell him that meditating upon his statement last night did not improve the quality of my sleep and neither did the meditation improve the quality of his statement. I would feel under an obligation to congratulate the honourable gentleman on having made his first statement to this House as Minister for Defence. Nevertheless, I would feel under a kindred obligation to point out to him that it will be my plain determination to ensure that it is his last statement to this House as Minister for Defence. 
I would hope that the maturity of this nation is of such a character that we have moved quietly but nevertheless perceptibly towards being able to embrace a bipartisan policy upon defence matters; but alas, the statement which has been delivered to the House by the Minister, far from encouraging a bipartisan attitude to defence, vigorously discourages it. I ignore the massive immodesty of the honourable gentleman's perorations. I put to one side the exuberant dependence he has upon his imagination for the facts. I remind the honourable gentleman that the startling ungenerosity of language that he has used in this House this afternoon, and indeed this morning, takes those of us who serve in the Opposition most consciously away from the idea that it would ever be possible to have a bipartisan approach to defence matters. 
That is desperately sad not merely for any political party in this country but for the whole nation, because the startling fact of life is that for this country our whole defence environment has changed. During the first debate in this Parliament on defence matters in 1901 a very distinguished member of the Parliament,  Sir George  Reid, observed to this effect: The strength of this nation and its interests will always be protected by the glory and the strength of the British Empire. Then, of course, for many years we did depend upon the corporate strength of the British Empire and then we did depend upon Britain and the United States of America. But if the Guam doctrine or- need I mention it- the Nixon doctrine amounts to anything, surely it amounts to a plain declaration that this nation must seek to fend for itself. The term which the honourable gentleman has used, 'continental defence', is not a term that upsets me in the least, but I do implore him and I do implore those who use it to be conscious of the fact that continental defence does not simply mean that we start to defend this country at the edge of the territorial sea. The fact of life today, as far as this nation is concerned in defence matters, is that the doctrine of self-reliance is assuming a greater degree of relevance month by month, day by day, and indeed hour by hour. I am concerned to find that the Government adopts the approach it has to defence. I remind this House that it has not had the opportunity of having one day's debate on defence matters in nearly 3 years. To use the language in the Minister's opening paragraph: Does defence occupy a high priority in the thinking and planning of the Australian Government? If it is a high priority that we have not had one day's debate on defence matters, goodness only knows what a low priority would offer. 
The honourable gentleman this morning turned upon 2 very distinguished former officers of the Services of this nation. I say to him with some warmth on the matter that his traducing of them reflected not upon himself or upon his office; it showed that he did not understand the fact that to seek to smear or indeed to slur upon the reputations of brave men is not welcome in this country. He used the term  'Colonel Blimps'.  I throw it back in the teeth of the Minister. It is a contemptible assertion that he made in this House this morning. I will warrant him this: At every opportunity I get on any platform in this country I W111 remind the audience of what the Minister for Defence said about 2 very distinguished officers with very distinguished records of service to this country. 
He should apologise, as the honourable member and gallant member for Farrer says. The Minister said: 
It is a priority reflected in the defence outlay in this year's Budget. 
I challenge that. Defence expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product reflected in this year's Budget is down to 2.5 per cent. Honourable members on both sides of the House will recall the undertaking given by the Australian Labor Party when in Opposition. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  declared that the Australian Labor Party's target in defence spending would not fall below the level of 3.2 to 3.5 per cent of gross national product set by the Liberal-Country Party governments in recent years. That is another undertaking which has been repudiated in very stark terms. I find it agreeable that the percentage of defence vote upon equipment is up, but it deserves to go up further. This year it will be of the order of an estimated 9.4 per cent. Last year it was 5.3 per cent. In the last year of office of the kidney of politics that I support, 1971-72, it was 11.5 per cent. In 1972-73 it was 1 1.8 per cent. It dropped down to 5.3 per cent and now it has been taken up to 9.4 per cent. 
What is irritating about the Minister's statement this afternoon is the vagueness of it. Let me remind the House of some of the observations. He said that we are on the verge of registration of interest for patrol boats. Does the honourable gentleman recall that his predecessor said of patrol boats in the last speech that he made in this Parliament in April of this year that a decision would be taken with respect to patrol boats in the very near future? The former Minister hoped to have been in a position to announce that. Now the matter has been taken further, albeit by a very small margin. We are now to the stage of registration. 
The Minister has given us a sturdy assurance that studies are in progress for a high capability patrol craft. What on earth does that mean? When will the result of those studies be available? Tenders are being called for the submission of a design for a combat support ship. When may the Parliament expect to get something a little more explicit on that? Then the Minister said that while he was in the United States of America he had discussions concerning the guided missile frigate. He said that as to the replacements of those Hercules aircraft that are out of date, the type and numbers will be announced later. Further and finally on the question of vagueness the honourable gentleman said that there was a proposed acquisition of 1 1 more radar units. One asks the question: When will this come to light? 
In the few minutes left at my disposal I want to refer to one clear area of activity to illustrate the approach of this Government towards defence matters. It concerns the question of the patrol frigate. I acknowledge that I may be exposed to the charge of being prejudiced in the Navy's favour, having had the honour of being its Minister. But it is simply not true. I am concerned at the desperate run-down in the state of the Royal Australian Navy. Let me remind the Minister of what his colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  said during the course of his Budget observations. The Treasurer said: 
Last year we approved the acquisition of a number of major items for the Services, including . . . patrol frigates. 
That was put in the past tense- 'we approved the acquisition '-yet yesterday in reply to a question the Minister said that the status of the agreement dealing with patrol frigates had in no way been changed. The memorandum of agreement dealing with the patrol frigates or guided missile frigates, call them what you will, has not been changed. To suggest, as the Treasurer did, that this is a matter of accomplishment- that it is done, finished or carried out- is to distort the picture; it is double-speak. The 2 ships, in any eventuality, could hardly be described as making a fleet. 
I ask the Minister whether he will give the House some indication of when we may expect a decision regarding these ships. Let me remind the House of the bases upon which the Government can get out of this proposed agreement. One is if the United States Navy patrol frigate program is suspended, and there is very considerable doubt about that. 
The Minister agrees with me. I am indebted to him for his frankness. 
-At least we have the Fl 1 1 aircraft I have the greatest of doubts whether we will get the guided missile frigates, and if it had been left to the Minister and those who assisted him we would never have had the Fl 1 1. Would we be in a position today to seek to vindicate, in any shape or form, the doctrine of self-reliance? The doctrine of self-reliance in the hands and mouths of the honourable members who support the present Government has no relevance at all. They take it as a doctrine to be propounded on occasions on which they want to encourage some political support; but, as far as it being an article of faith for those who sit in the Parliament and encouraging it to be an article of faith for every person in the country, that is asking just too much altogether. 
There is much that the Minister said by way of other observations, with which one would find sympathy if one could see some action on the part of the Government. I instance, without being definitive on the point, what the Minister said with reference to logistics in this country. I put this not by way of harsh definition but by way of simple inquiry. If we were to find some aggressor landing in the Pilbara region or elsewhere in the north-west of Australia we would be faced with the most significant of logistical problems. That is acknowledged by everyone. Even if we had one division at our disposal we would be faced with it taking up to 3 months to get across to meet what may be a threat to part of this country. There is no all-weather road, for example, from Broken Hill to Darwin. The Minister makes these vague references to the problems associated with logistics, but he tells us very little of the corporate thinking of the Government on how it proposes to solve those problems. 
I appeal to the Minister and to all those who sit behind him. This nation deserves to have a sustained debate upon defence matters. It is an insult to this Parliament and to the people of Australia that the honourable and gallant member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  has not had an opportunity to take part in this debate. There are honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House who would have welcomed seeing this debate run on for at least the rest of the day. However, the Minister takes the view that the arrangement has been made and therefore this debate will peter out. What the Parliament is entitled to expect from the Minister is something better by way of definitive policy than he has offered to us today. The tragedy of the Minister's statement does not lie in its mere vagueness and it does not lie in the fact that it has sought to insult people. It lies in the fact that the Government apparently has no sense of consciousness whatsoever as to the completely new gathering of responsibilities which confronts this country. The fact is that the Government does not understand that the doctrine of self-reliance is of very great relevance to this country and is growing in intensity as each day goes by. 
Motion (by  Mr Keating)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 

 A division having been called for 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! A division has been called for on the question'That the debate be now adjourned '. 
Question put. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces presented to Parliament. 
Was it a recommendation of the Report that the Army Reserve be given a greater relevance in the defence planning of Australia. 
Was the recommendation accepted; if so, when. 
What is now the denned role of the Army Reserve, and when was the Reserve so advised. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Was it a recommendation of the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces that if the Regular Army is committed at home or overseas the Army Reserve should be activated as the force next to be employed; if so, was the recommendation accepted. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Has any decision being taken to disband the Air Training Corps and the Naval Reserve Cadets? If a decision has been taken, will the honourable gentleman say whether that decision was taken pursuant to advice given by the respective chiefs of staff? 
-The Government has taken a decision to dismantle the Army cadet system in Australia and is in the process of taking a decision to dismantle the Air Training Corps and the naval reserve cadets system. I say to this House and I hope to the country, without any trace of ambiguity: A LiberalNational Country Party government will restore the cadet system and will restore it with proper improvements and modifications. I hope there is no doubt in any person's mind as to where we stand on that issue. Of course, the business of dis- mantlingis aprocess that comesinstinctivelyto the present Government. It is a government which moves in the direction of pulling things down readily and it would appear with a zest. This is a government which is given over to the whole process of dismantling, destruction and the creation of despair to reason and to the rationality of the world. 
What are the arguments which have been advanced? One is bound to say that there has been a paucity of argument. The only argument that has been advanced has come from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  who issued a Press statement on this matter. Now mark that: He issued a Press statement. I would have thought that a decision of this kind would have justified parliamentary debate but of course this is the way in which this Government treats the Parliament. 
It is all very fine for the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to interject and enjoin me to break it down. On the contrary, no person treats this Parliament with a greater sense of contempt than does the Minister who interjected. 
What is the principal argument that was advanced by the Minister for Defence? He fell back on what is shortly described as the Millar report which was drawn up by a committee of inquiry into the Army Cadet Corps. Before I turn to the argument advanced there, may I say something about the Millar report and the way in which the Government has treated it. This report was made available in June 1974. But not one effort has been made by the Government to promote a debate in this Parliament on the Millar Committee's report on cadets. I would have thought that if a government was minded to take a decision of this character it would at least have done Parliament the courtesy to have said: 'Well, we will give over a few hours for you to consider the report and then to consider prospectively our decision'. But no, the Government has done nothing at all. This, of course, is to be found illustrated time and time again. Reports of the utmost significance to the whole fabric of our society are presented to Parliament and that is the last we hear of them in terms of parliamentary discussion. 
I turn to the argument that the Minister presented based on the Millar Committee's report. 
Let me remind honourable members what the honourable gentleman had to say. He took this extract from the Millar Committee 's report:  ... the military value of cadets is small and does not of itself justify the present annual allocation of funds and Regular Army manpower. 
A person listening to that would conclude that the Millar committee has reported adversely against the whole system of cadets and that is the end of the matter. What is the primary recommendation made by the Millar Committee? The principal recommendation is that the present Army cadet system be retained, with modifications, and on a totally voluntary basis during peace time. If ever there was a classic illustration of a false suggestion and the suppression of the truth it is in the Minister's Press statement. At least the Minister has the decency to blush with shame. 
The honourable gentleman says: 'Oh, no'. If the honourable gentleman is not blushing with shame his face is defamatory. Let me go a little further into the Millar Committee's report as this recommendation is the principal argument of the honourable gentleman. The other recommendations, all of them, taken in the singular or in the totality, argue the case for the retention of the system. 
The honourable gentleman summons as his next witness the views of military advisers. I take a very old fashioned and somewhat orthodox view on falling back as a basis of argument on the advice given by Service officers or by public servants. Ministers answer to Parliament and the responsibility is the Minister's. I ask the Minister: Was this decision to disband the Army cadet system his decision alone or was it the decision of the Government? The purport of the honourable gentleman's argument is that the cadet system has no military value. The distinguished  Chairman  of the Millar Committee said at paragraph 3.5 on page 9 of the report: 
The school cadet system could be said to have military value if it makes young men more interested in serving in the armed forces, either on a full-time or pan-time basis. We had been led to believe that this was not the case, but in fact it has been demonstrated. 

 Dr Millar goes on to refer to the evidence put before the Committee in regard to the Citizen Military Forces. He concludes with this finding: 
As the number of cadets at any one time is probably no more than about S per cent of the total number of youths of the relevant age group in Australia, the Citizen Forces would seem to benefit from the cadet system. 
Why is it as a matter of judgment that the honourable gentleman is prepared to approbate part of the Millar Committe's report and then to reprobate - to toss to one side, to rebuke, to dismiss - the substantial findings of the Millar Committee's report? Beyond that, why is the honourable gentleman not prepared to facilitate a parliamentary debate on the Millar Committee's report on the substantive inquiry into the whole system, but has a preference for falling back on what he describes as Service advisers? I would have thought that common sense plainly would have dictated that he should have turned his mind to the substantial inquiry and made a judgment value on it. 
The Minister's next witness who gave evidence in support of the Government's decision or his decision - we do not know which - was none other than the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I question the honourable gentleman's expertise in this field. I am not saying this with any disrespect to my distinguished friend, but would he hold himself out as an expert in the field of Army cadets? Would he, for example, say that he has greater authority in this field than the Millar Committee singly or corporately? 
-With a modesty which would stun the country into silence, he says that he has. We now turn to another authority- a survey conducted by the National Youth Council of Australia. Where is the survey? 
I am delighted. There it is. The honourable gentleman would know that I could not read it in a moment or two. I have had no opportunity to read the survey. No opportunity has been given for the House to consider the survey. But would those who compiled the survey say that they had more expertise in this field than the Millar Committee? No opportunity has been made available for any of us to test the credentials of those who compiled the survey, to crossexamine them and to ask them the nature of the acquisition of their experience or authority in this field, none whatsoever. What does the honourable gentleman say to the fact that there has been what I would describe only as a spontaneous expression of hostility to the Government's decision throughout the country? Were the 36 000 cadets who signed a petition which was presented to this Parliament by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  expressing selfishness on their part? Was the behaviour of the Minister in Western Australia an expression of respect for the young men who give of their time freely and willingly? I would have thought that the honourable gentleman would behave with a greater sense of courtesy than that. 
The Minister received with great discourtesy a deputation from young men who did him the honour of donning their uniforms. He ticked them off because they were in uniform. Was it something to be ashamed of for school cadets to wear the cadet uniform of the school with which they were associated? I wish the Minister had been with me last Sunday afternoon when I had the great honour of taking a passing out parade of the Air Training Corps in Brisbane to sense the reaction. I wish he had been present the Sunday before that when the distinguished Governor of Queensland took the passing out parade of cadets of a school that was celebrating its centenary to sense the reaction of the cadets, the parents, the friends and the community in its corporate sense. 
The Minister is not merely wrong in saying this decision is sound; he is but dead wrong. Unfortunately the Minister has sought to support an argument based entirely on the military aspects of the cadet system. Does the building of character, the stimulation of initiative, the cultivation of those robust qualities that commend themselves to all people of maturity and sense not have some significance to this country in this day and age? Our submission is that it has. We believe that where the system may merit adjustments, the adjustments can be made. But I doubt that one could think of a more curious argument coming from a Government concerned about costs than that it must get rid of the system on the basis of cost The most profligate government in the history of this country is concerned about cost. The simple truth is that this Government wants an Australia that stands for nothing, believes in nothing, cares for nothing, and which will do nothing save indulge its own wilful will. That is precisely what this Government has done during its period of office. When the electorate gets the opportunity to pay attention to this Government it will treat the Government in a fashion that it thoroughly deserves. 
I will not delay the Committee long because I know that other honourable members want to speak. The simple fact is that members of the Parliament have been deprived of participating in any sustained debate on defence for approximately 3 years. I think it is disgraceful, as the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  will agree, that honourable members with an interest in defence matters are not given an opportunity to participate in a sustained debate. It is a clear indication of the curious,lackadaisical- one could indeed say indifferent- approach of the Government to defence matters, that for nearly 3 years there has not been an opportunity for members of the Parliament to take part in a defence debate. I do not know why this should be. 
I have always found the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  and his predecessor to be courteous and to show a respect for Parliament. It staggers me to find that the honourable gentleman will not facilitate at least a day's debate on defence in this Parliament. When the Minister put down his statement on defence a few weeks ago there were 2 speakers. The Minister spoke and I spoke. I am quite sure that I could encourage from the honourable gentleman a sense of reluctance- a sense of regret- that that is the case. I appeal to the Minister even at this late stage to facilitate a debate on the Defence Report which he tabled in the Parliament yesterday. That would provide a most welcome opportunity for honourable members on both sides to debate the matter. 
This afternoon when I launched the Opposition's defence policy I made the observation- I made it with complete genuineness- that I hoped in my lifetime to see developed in this country a bi-partisan approach to defence matters. I believe that that should be the objective to which we strive. But as things stand at the moment we are a long day's march from attaining that objective. One of the reasons that we are a distance from that attainment is that there is so little parliamentary debate on defence matters. If Parliament does not set an example what hope is there in the country? The character of defence debate throughout the country has not been distinguished necessarily for the indifference or the rationality of approach- indeed, quite to the contrary. A great deal of our debate on defence in this country proceeds from slogan uses, slogan shoutings and the resort to shibboleths. I hope that the Minister is prepared to make that concession and to agree with me that that is the case. 
The Minister will have an opportunity to make some observations during the course of this Committee debate. I understand that it is to be terminated at about 6 o'clock, so we have barely another hour in which to provide honourable members with an opportunity to debate the Defence estimates. When I look at another place and see the leisurely approach with which the Senate proceeds with its consideration of the Estimates and I compare it with the way in which this chamber proceeds with its consideration of the Estimates I apprehend a sense of shame. It is literally impossible for honourable members on both sides of the chamber who have an interest in defence matters to debate the Estimates as such. When I first came into the Parliament Estimates debates proceded on the basis that a person pointed to some particular item in the Estimates and asked why it was that that amount was so and so and 'What has been done about this?' But as things stand now we have reached the stage where the 10-minute speeches are virtually, as I confess now, in the character of speeches to the second reading of a Bill. This is a very grave pity. Why should the House of Representatives, which I regard as being the principal House of the Parliament- governments are formed here and governments are broken here- see its authority diminished by not dealing with the Estimates in a proper fashion? 
Having said that, I have time to raise but one matter with the Minister and that concerns the position regarding the guided missile frigatesformerly called patrol frigates- from the United States of America. The Minister, in some of his public comments, and his predecessor have in a very real sense conveyed the impression to the country that firm orders have been placed for these ships. 
I am delighted to get an indication from the Minister that that is not the case, but I can recall language used by his predecessor to this effect: These ships will become available before the present destroyer escorts are phased out in the 1 980s. There is nothing tentative about that language at all. That language was used by  Mr Barnard  on several occasions in this chamber. 
When one looks at the option agreement one finds that it is an agreement from which the Government could resile with virtually no excuse at its command. For example, if the Government takes the view that the cost of the patrol frigate is too excessive, it simply says 'No, we will not pay that sum of money' and it can get out of it irrespective of whether or not there is a reasonable argument at the disposal of the Government. If fewer than 12 of the ships are built, the Government can say: 'No, we will not take up the option'. The most extraordinary ground of all upon which the Government may excuse itself from the commitment pursuant to the agreement is if, during the trials of the patrol frigate, the Government takes the view that it does not measure up to what the Government requires the Government simply says: 'It does not satisfy us.' As I read the agreement, there is no obligation to state any objective criteria. 
The equipment position of the Royal Australian Navy by the middle of the 1980s will be not merely critical, it will be very grave. I hope that the Minister will take the earliest opportunity to tell this Parliament exactly what the Government's intentions are with respect to the patrol frigate. Surely by now the Government is in a position to indicate its intention. If it decides not to go ahead to purchase the patrol frigate the position will be critical. It will be grave. But beyond that, the Department of Defence would then be faced with the difficulty and the task of seeking to get access to comparable equipment, and that will not be very easy. It is all very fine for people to say that ships of type 42 or the Spruance class are available. The simple fact is that the weapons systems are different, and the infrastructure needed for the back up raises very difficult problems. I appeal to the Minister to indicate to the Committee at the earliest opportunity exactly what the Government's intentions are in this field. 
Beyond that I appeal to the Minister on a personal basis to seek to secure a sustained debate on defence in this Parliament in the very near future so as to give honourable gentlemen on both sides of the chamber an opportunity to take part. No party in this country has a monopoly on patriotism. I have sat in this Parliament with some honourable gentlemen opposite for nearly 20 years. I disagree with their political attitudes. I understand that on occasions they complain about some of mine. But their attitude towards the welfare of this country and mine are I hope in a state of utter coincidence. So I appeal to the Minister. If he can secure from the Leader of the 
House  (Mr Daly)  at least a day's debate on defence this will earn him the gratitude of the Opposition. 
I second the motion. For one who contends that he has such a fierce regard for the proprieties of Parliament, the issuance of a Press statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in respect of this matter must surely be the frankest repudiation of that view. Parliament is sitting. Why is it that the honourable gentlemen has not found that simple sense of courage to come into the House and tell the House what is in this statement. We are not dealing with some minor squabble. We are dealing with the dismissal of a man who was at one time the Acting Prime Minister of this country. We are dealing with a matter which touches the very heart, soul and integrity of government, and that is the capacity of men and women who sit in Parliament to tell the truth. 
The Prime Minister in his statement issued outside this Parliament today had this to say: 
At no time has there been any allegation of improper conduct, of dishonest conduct, of reprehensible conduct, of illegal or corrupt conduct by any member of the Government. 
And yet in the same statement the honourable gentleman says this - 
I respect your ruling immaculately. But I am coming to the point of urgency. After having said there was nothing improper, in the same statement the honourable gentleman said: 
I was . . . driven to conclude that I had been misled by  Mr Connor  . . . 
The Prime Minister himself makes the charge against his former colleague. He came in here this afternoon and he washed his hands of the whole affair. Such was the Prime Minister's performance that he would give one the impression that, by contrast, Pontius Pilate had a mortal fear of water. 
I invite the House to realise the utter gravity of this matter. As was put by my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  the Standing Orders deserve to be suspended so that the House can in a mature way deal with the question. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  is entitled to be heard. What is his version of these events? The honourable gentleman nods in assent. A charge has been made against the honourable member for Cunningham. Such has been the nature of the charge that he has been sacked. Let the honourable gentleman be given the opportunity to be heard. For the Prime Minister to talk about painful conduct- his words were: 'My own painful duty has been twice to defend and to preserve a great and fundamental parliamentary convention' is to call forth the invitation for the honourable gentleman to come in here and to give the Parliament the opportunity to discuss and to debate this matter. The quality and quantity of tears which come from the Prime Minister in this Parliament- there are many on his side who know the quality and the quantity of the tears of the Prime Minister- are such that one would be able to irrigate the Gobi Desert with them. This Parliament deserves something better than the utterly contemptuous manner in which the Prime Minister has treated the Parliament. The Parliament is entitled to satisfaction. The Parliament demands satisfaction. 
Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that if a half-Senate election is held those Bills which meet the requirements of section 57 of the Constitution lapse? I further ask the honourable gentleman: Does he acknowledge the fact that the provisions of section 57 were designed to facilitate the resolution of conflict between the 2 Houses? If so, in view of the fact that there are some 21 Bills which meet the provisions of section 57, what argument does the honourable gentleman advance not to resort to the provisions? 
I will prove every syllable of it. 
Poddy calves do not worry me in the least. This is a dishonest Government. I know the honourable member for Blaxland will not like the charge but he will not particularly like the proof either. The place for dishonest men is in gaol, not in the national Parliament. I shall begin with the charge. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - 
I was speaking of the Government and you are not a member of the Government. 
This whole sad business began with the actions of 4 men- the Prime Minister, the former Deputy Prime Minister, the former Attorney-General and the former Minister for Minerals and Energy. What did those 4 men do? They got together and put through an Executive Council minute purporting to raise $4,000m for temporary purposes- over 20 years. What person who would give the slightest substance to the English language would say for one minute that a loan for 20 years was a loan for temporary purposes? But the Attorney-General of the day signed the minute; the Prime Minister who still is the Prime Minister signed it; the former Deputy Prime Minister signed it and the former Minister for Minerals and Energy signed it. Then they took the Executive Council minute to the Governor-General and, to the eternal disgrace of any gathering of Ministers, they got the Gover-nor-General to sign that minute, which was a false Executive Council decision. It was a wicked Executive Council decision. 
It was a grossly dishonest Executive Council decision. 
I come to the next sorry pass in this whole melancholy business. That Executive Council minute was rescinded. Another minute was substituted, this time in more modest terms, for $2,000m. The loan was to be over 20 years, still for temporary purposes. It was still a gross outrage against the simple meaning of language. The Prime Minister in this place was asked by the Leader of the Opposition what he would do with respect to the Loan Council. What was his response? He said: 'Oh, I will tell the Loan Council about it when we get the loan. ' Every person who has looked at the Financial Agreement knows that if a loan is raised for defence purposes it does not go to the Loan Council; if a loan is raised for temporary purposes it does not go to the Loan Council. Why would the Prime Minister say to the Leader of the Opposition: 'Oh, I will inform the Loan Council. '? If it was only for temporary purposes there was no obligation on the honourable gentleman to go to the Loan Council. It was a display of dishonesty, in terms of reason if not in terms of action. 
But today the Prime Minister came in here- I concede that he was at his imperial best- and quoted Latin to us. Oh yes, he reminds me strongly of all the Roman emperors. I think that he would find himself very much at ease in discussing, for example, with Nero the events of the day. Just imagine Nero after the Prime Minister had told him what he had done to this country. Nero would have looked out on the city of Rome and he would have said: 'I have shown great solicitude to my city as I fiddled when it burned.' Imagine the honourable gentelman discussing the affairs of state with Caligua, who appointed his horse Consul. When the honourable gentleman told the facts to Caligua, Caligua would have thought that he gave a dashing display of rationality. Today the honourable gentleman seeks to impeach us. But he was the one in 1970, as Leader of the Opposition, standing in this place who said: 'We will reject a tax Bill. We will destroy the Government in another place. ' 
-The Prime Minister said that. If the Prime Minister took that view in 1970, what has happened to him that he takes a contrary view today? What was so splendid about the logic in 1 970 that it is rejected today, in 1 975? 
I want to give my view, I trust, in terms that even the honourable gentleman's mind can comprehend. The argument which was pressed upon us by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and indeed by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  that there is danger in this process, would be a valid argument indeed if the Parliament did not have at its disposal double dissolution machinery which has been in existence now for 12 months or 18 months, since the Government was returned. If ever there has been an outrage against any constitutional provision, this Government has outraged section 57 of the Constitution. There are 21 Bills which conform with section 57 of the Constitution, and the Prime Minister knows only too well that he has only to get into his car, go to  Yarralumla,  make an application to the Governor-General and ask him to dissolve both Houses of the Parliament. 
He will not go because he is a frightened man. Why is it that the Prime Minister has allowed what has been described as a log jam- a storehouse- of double dissolution Bills? Would any person seriously charge the Opposition with embarking upon some dangerous course if the Senate were not in the position where there had been a strict compliance with the provisions of section 57 on no fewer than 21 occasions? That distinguishes the role of responsibility from the role of irresponsibility. All that the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry have to do is to prevail upon the Government, in its corporate sense, to say: 'We want to resort to section 57 of the Constitution. We want to seek a double dissolution'. 
The last thing I want to say to the honourable gentleman is this: Yesterdy he cited to this House the authority of  Sir Robert  Menzies in 1932 with respect to the constitutional role of those who hold gubernatorial office. That was as it applied in 1 932. 1 hope that he would not be offended if I were to remind him of what was said by a man who once led the Labor Party, the late Right Honourable  Dr Evatt,  in his classic work  The King and His Dominion Governors.  He said that surely it is wrong to assume that the GovernorGeneral is a mere tool in the hands of the dominant political party. I trust that the Prime Minister will reflect well upon these words. Today this country has to take into comtemplation the actions of a dishonest government, a government from which 2 Ministers have been dismissed because they misled Parliament. The language is not mine; it is the language of the Prime Minister. He said: 'It was my painful duty to dismiss the Minister for Minerals and Energy because I was misled'. If the former Minister for Minerals and Energy was dismissed because he misled this Parliament, with a stronger strength the Prime Minister should be dismissed because he misled this Parliament in relation to the whole of the loans scandal. 
I hope that the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  will not regard it as a discourtesy on my part if I excuse myself from dealing with all of the arguments which she has pressed upon us. I wish I could join with the honourable lady in regarding this debate as a debate which were to be restricted solely to consideration of the constitutional structure of this country and the relationship of the 2 Houses one to the other. May I say for myself that I would do nothing which would in any way diminish the authority of this chamber. 
I wish the honourable gentleman would have some patience. I know that he has got a desperately well cultivated set of poor manners, but he should try to cultivate a little patience. Long before this country was thrust into this circumstance I examined precisely the possibility of this circumstance taking place. I did this in an article published in the  Australian  on 19 October 1973. I think that all honourable gentlemen and ladies, irrespective of their views, will concede that that was a date when there was no crisis, as has been described by members on both sides of the House and indeed by every editorial observer. In that article I said: 
The Senate's authority, with respect to the appropriation bills, is plainly restricted. But in ultimate terms, the Senate's power to reject does exist. 
I trust there is no ambiguity about the Senate's power in ultimate terms. Its power to reject does exist. I would doubt very much if there would be any lawyer in the country worthy of such a description who would contest that view. The language is clear. But that rejection should be exercised only in the most exceptional of circumstance. For example, I would raise considerable argument against the proposition that it should be exercised if no double dissolution machinery were available because it would be this House, and this House only, which would go to the people. But that is not the circumstance as it exists today and the gyrations of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  endeavouring to persuade himself and his followers that he will not resort to the double dissolution provisions, shows precisely how he is on occasions encouraged to take views which are thoroughly reckless and, beyond that, which are taken up merely by dint of political expediency. 
All that the Prime Minister has said this afternoon would operate in a circumstance of normalcy. But the fact of life is that this country today is not operating in a circumstance of normalcy. This country is now confronted with what I unhesitatingly describe as a dishonest Government. We have had 2 Ministers sacked because their leader said that they had misled him. The House will recall that in a Press statement issued by the Prime Minister on 14 October 1975, and given outside this House mark you, the following comment was made: 
Yesterday I received from solicitors in Melbourne a copy of a statutory declaration signed by  Mr Khemlani  and copies of a number of telex messages between  Mr Khemlani  's office in London and the office of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
In my judgment these messages did constitute 'communications of substance' between the Minister and  Mr Khemlani. 
And what followed? The Minister for Minerals and Energy was dismissed. 
It is all very fine for the honourable member for Wilmot to say that he resigned. The fact is that the Prime Minister said: 'It was my painful duty'- that was his description of it- 'to ask the honourable gentleman to go'. The honourable member for Cunningham lost his ministerial office not on the evidence produced by any person on this side, not by dint of any charge made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  not by anything said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  or by myself. The honourable member for Cunningham lost his ministerial office because of evidence produced to the country by  Mr Khemlani. Mr Khemlani,  in ultimate terms, was the Prime Minister's witness. 
That being the case, I will submit to the House that the Prime Minister knew that between 20 May and 10 June 1975 the honourable member for Cunningham, the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, still had an authority to negotiate for loans. I go further and say that the Prime Minister in fact had said to the Minister for Minerals and Energy: 'If you raise a loan an 
Executive Council minute will be drawn to cover it. ' I suggest further that on Monday, 20 October, an interview was conducted between a gentleman of the Press and the Prime Minister's own witness,  Mr Khemlani,  the man who caused the Minister for Minerals and Energy to lose his office. It was not caused by dint of any charge made on this side. Among other things, this was said: 
Interviewer. And after May 20 did  Mr Connor  still refer alleged negotiations to the Prime Minister? 

 Mr Khemlani: Yes, because during our discussions on the telephone  Mr Connor  used to point out to me that the Prime Minister had been particularly informed and was waiting for the confirmation of funds to come through. 
Interviewer After May 20? 

 Mr Khemlani: Oh yes. When it was a matter of confirming the funds at any time, and then we had delays and therefore  Mr Connor  used to say that we are keeping the Prime Minister late in the Parliament House or even at home. 
The Prime Minister's own witness makes the Prime Minister out to be utterly dishonest in this respect. Today he was asked 3 questions on this matter and he refused to answer the questions., 
I invite honourable gentlemen sitting on the government benches to go through this transcript of the Khemlani interview. If they can get from it any message of comfort all I can say is that thenintellect has been dulled to an extraordinary degree. Let us take another excerpt from it: 
Interviewer When  Mr Connor  resigned, you expressed shock and surprise and I think you also said that you believed he was a scapegoat for the Government. Would you comment on that? 

 Mr Khemlani: Yes, now when at the time when the news came to me, of course it was expected in view of the declaration and the proof which I gave that somebody would have to come forward and say that he did it and the only person who could was  Mr Connor.  Now whether the Prime Minister was going to stand by and support and protect him was a thing I had expected to do because I know in my mind that Prime Minister knew of my negotiations of my continuation of the loan arrangement with  Mr Connor  all along. 
There it is again. So is this now the position: For the purposes of political convenience the Prime Minister will accept the evidence of  Mr Khemlani  to sack one of his Ministers but for the purposes of - 
... for the purposes of his own survival he will dismiss  Mr Khemlani;  for the purposes of personal culpability  Mr Khemlani  is an unfavourable, an unaccepted witness; for the purposes of getting rid of one of his own Ministers he is a completely acceptable witness?  Mr Khemlani  said that he expected the Prime Minister would support one of his own Ministers. The only support the Prime Minister will give to any of his friends, and indeed to any of his Ministers, is the same sturdy support that the gallows will give to one of its victims. I go a little further in the matter of asserting that the Prime Minister knew that this authority still continued. Again it is not my contention, it is the contention of none other than one of his own Ministers. What I am asserting to this House is that this dishonest Government has deliberately misled this House as to the full ramifications of this loans scandal. I come to the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who said on 9 July - 
-I think that the honourable member for Wilmot needs to be put under a little sedation. The truth hurts him when it comes out.  His  will be one of the first electorates to which I will go down and tell the truth. On 9 July 1975 the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Clyde  Cameron - 
I remind the honourable member for Wilmot that Christ drove the money lenders from the temple. The Government which he supports would have them in control of the Cabinet room. On 9 July 1975  Mr Clyde  Cameron said: 
The honourable member is complaining only that it is not there. I can tell this House that I am certain that the money is there and I am certain that before very long the Minister for Minerals and Energy will be vindicated; he will be able to come into this House with the $4 billion in his hand, obtained at the rate of interest that I have mentioned. I believe that he will bring it off. 
So the position is that one of the Ministers on 9 July- not on 20 May, not on 10 June, but on 9 July- believed that the Minister for Minerals and Energy still held authority to negotiate loans. 
What some honourable gentlemen appear to misunderstand is that the Executive Council minute relating to the $2,000m loan had been revoked but a general ostensible authority to raise loans which the Prime Minister had conferred on the Minister for Minerals and Energy still existed, hence the Prime Minister said to the honourable gentleman: 'Well, if you raise the money we will get an Executive Council minute to cover it. ' But on 9 July the Minister for Science said that he still had authority. Which is it to be? Do honourable gentlemen say that on 9 July the Minister for Science was misinformed? Do they say that on 9 July the Minister for Science misunderstood the position? That was the not some chance remark made by some private member of the Parliament; it was made by a very senior and very experienced member of the Parliament. On 9 July this year the Minister said that the Minister for Minerals and Energy still had authority. That is the only conclusion to be drawn from it. One may well ask: Did the Prime Minister send for the Minister for Science and say to him: 'What is this you say about the Minister for Minerals and Energy being vindicated? There is no scope for or possibility of his being vindicated because he has no authority to raise loans'. The honourable gentleman said at the Press conference on 10 June 1975 that all authority had been revoked, when in fact the authority subsisted. 
There are 2 sources to assert that. There is the source of  Mr Clyde  Cameron, a Minister in the Government, and the source of  Mr Khemlani  whose evidence was acceptable to the Prime Minister to the extent that he was able to hang yet another of his Ministers in the sake of expediency, in the sake of convenience. If this were a matter of dealing with great constitutional principle that would be enough to attract our vigour and our attention, but the issue facing this country at this time is whether Australia can tolerate for another 18 months a government that is deeply steeped in dishonesty. 
I suppose the most refreshing part about the speech of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  is that at long last we have a Minister for Defence in a Labor Government who has expressed a concern for defence. The honourable gentleman's massive display of perturbation and concern can be put to rest very quickly. All that the honourable gentleman has to do is to seek to use his powers of persuasion upon his colleagues and to arrange for an election to be held. 
It is all very fine for the parakeet from Bowman to interject - 
At least they would be on a good thing. 
-Oh yes, they have-for 20 years. If the Minister for Defence has such a desperately genuine concern for the defences of the country all he has to do is to go to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and say: 'Look, we have been together for a long time. I am very concerned. It has been pointed out to me that if we do not get this Bill through we will be faced with a manifest variety of problems'. I appeal to the Prime Minister to let the matter be resolved. But at least it is refreshing to find the Minister expressing a concern for defence. I remind the House that it is only a few months ago, when there was no political confrontation- call it what you will- when the Government of which he was a member cancelled camp after camp, movement after movement of personnel on account of economy. 
I will give example after example to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. 
I am immensely indebted to you,  Mr Speaker,  for your protection and understanding. I am dealing with the simple and central argument as put to us this evening by the Minister for Defence, that by holding up this Bill the Senate's action will have some effect upon the Services which, put shortly, could be described as disastrous. It is a rather curious argument Last year- I am indebted to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  for the information- a fuel strike in the Northern Territory grounded a squadron of Mirage aircraft. Did the Minister for Defence say 'Oh, this is a matter of tremulous moment'? Not at all. We have seen unit after unit of the Royal Australian Navy put in a position of not being able to sail because of industrial trouble. Did the Minister for Defence, the honourable member for St George, beat himself into a fit of fury and say: 'Oh, this is disastrous'? No. The honourable gentleman sat in his place sopping wet with satisfaction. 
I shall come to the central feature of this Bill. It was exposed in the Senate. All members of the House of Representatives should be indebted to the sense of pertinacity, to the sense of inquiry, shown by members of the Senate. The short effect of this Bill is to seek to conceal from the country the enormous deficit Budget of the Government. 
The honourable member for Wilmot, who poses as an enraged mouse, of course has some difficulty in understanding this. Before the Budget was presented we were told the deficit would be of the order of $2,800m. This is peanuts compared with the $4,000m which can be raised at barbeques in the Middle East these days. Before the Budget was presented the Treasurer said with, I thought, a beckoning sense of modesty: 'Oh, one must tack another $700m on to it'. That is a deficit of $3,500m before we get to grips with the problems. I am reminded of the fact that in a variety of votes the prospective wage increases have not been taken into account. So as presently advised, on the evidence before one, one could reach the conclusion that this Government faces a Budget deficit of the order of $4,000m. 
The whole purpose of this Bill, used as it is, is a ruse, a device, a subterfuge to seek to conceal, to hide, to screen from public scrutiny and indeed in ultimate terms from public indignation what this Government is doing to this country. 
-That is all very fine. The honourable gentleman is in the amateur class of insulters 
-He is a Methodist preacher? I think it is about time that some of the founders of Methodism came back from the grave. 
Oh no, by any means. Let me turn further to the argument advanced by the Minister for Defence this evening. He has fled from this chamber as though he were taking to his heels on judgment day. Let us deal with the argument pressed by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia- that is, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  the one-time Treasurer. One has to keep a log book of changes in the Ministry. In a matter of the last 24 hours the  Deputy  Prime Minister said: 'Oh, we will take no notice of the fact that there is no money there. We will just write out the cheques. It may be a breach of the Constitution but we will just write out the cheques.' I do not know whether there is any substance in that point of view. 
Let me make the assumption that there is substance in that point of view. The cheque would be written out for the Minister for Defence. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  could say: 'There you are, William Morrison. Go and cash it. ' If there is substance in that point of view the fears of the Minister for Defence are to no avail and he has come into this House this evening complaining upon meagre, improper grounds. But if on the other hand there is substance in the view of the Minister for Defence he is rebuking and repudiating his  Deputy  Leader. For which does he have a preferment, to repudiate his  Deputy  Leader or to say that there is substance in the point of view offered by his  Deputy  Leader? He can take his pick. But if he likes he can say: 'You have swept me into this position. I can no longer take one or the other. What am I to do?' The advice we offer from this side of the House is simple, it is uncluttered and it is completely unworried. The Senate and this side of the House indeed would approve of the Bill unanimously if the honourable gentleman would say to his Prime Minister who puts himself above all others in this country - 
It is all very fine to' talk about political blackmail. That is a rather sharp term. I do not object to acerbity of language. The Prime Minister takes the view that there are 2 classes of people in this country, the Prime Minister and others. We may travel economy class but the honourable gentleman travels VIP class. When it comes to dissembling I must say of the honourable gentleman that he is most certainly in the VIP class. The position is clear. It is- simple. The Minister for Defence can use his powers of persuasion upon his colleagues. When this Bill was before us last we proposed a form of words and I invite the House to reconsider what is now before us. I move as an amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House of Representatives endorses Message No. 275 of the Senate, in particular, that the Bill be not further proceeded with until the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people'. 
If my honourable friend had a clear conscience, a firm sense of purpose, were unworried and untroubled by what may lie ahead he would say: 'Killen, there is nothing in this world that I would more readily agree to than to go to the people'. If the Government takes the view that we on this side of politics have behaved wantonly, indiscriminately and capriciously it could be vindicated in the greatest forum in this country- before the forum of the people of Australia. The Government could be vindicated. It could be the Government which will be put upon the pedestal. It could be us who will be swept to oblivion. That is the challenge. 
Any person in the Government ranks with any sense of fibre would say: 'That is a challenge to which I will reply and reply willingly. I will go'. These are the frightened men of Australia. When the frightened men and women of Australia are submitted to the will of the people of Australia they will be the ones, the members of the Australian Labor Party, who will be swept to utter oblivion. 
I address a question to the Minister for Northern Australia. May I congratulate the honourable gentleman on obtaining his office. Has the Minister any information in his possession which he could place before a meeting of the Executive Council which would in any way vindicate the position of the honourable member for Cunningham? 
-This malodorous Government must be brought to account - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Moreton be not further heard. 
Question put: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 

 -Mr Speaker, this malodorous Government must be brought to account - 
Yes. 
This malodorous Government must be brought to account. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Moreton be no longer heard. 
Question put: 
On assuming office the Government found to its dismay that the previous Administration had dismantled over 80 per cent of the cadet units throughout Australia. The restoration of those units will call for considerable initiative and considerable resources, and the Government has embarked on a program of inquiry to see how that can best be achieved having regard to the use of resources and to manpower. It is my expectation that by the end of this month a report which would represent an appropriate survey of the problems will be in my hands, and then it will be upon the Government to determine a future course. 
by leave- I wish to announce the Government's decision to acquire 2 guided missile frigates for the Royal Australian Navy. The ships will be procured from the United States Navy construction program for guided missile frigates. These ships were previously known as patrol frigates and are now called the FFG-7, 

 Oliver Hazard Perry Class. The 2 ships will be in service by 1982. The 'sail-away' cost for the 2 ships as procured from the United States is $A195m in January 1976 prices. The total project investment cost, including helicopters, spares, test equipment, ammunition and so on, for the 2 ships has been estimated at $A330m in January 1976 prices. 
Members will be aware that in our preelection Defence Policy we said that we would give priority to a review of the previous Government's cancellation of the light destroyer (DDL) program. We also said that it might be necessary now to accept a modified destroyer design. The review has been completed and the results have been presented to the Government. The review, which was most comprehensive, covered the characteristics required of the destroyers, the pros and cons of re-instituting the DDL program, the acquisition of FFGs and of alternative ships to meet the current destroyer requirements of the Navy. The Navy itself has been deeply involved in the United States FFG program and has also conducted its own independent and very searching investigations. The unanimous advice I have received from my advisers is that the DDL program can no longer be considered because of costs and prospective delays. 
It might be remembered that at the time of the coalition Government's approval in 1972 the DDL was to include essentially the same weapons and sensor capability as the then patrol frigate- area air-defence weapons, helicopter operation, anti-ship missile- except that the DDL was planned to have a larger gun. The DDL hull and machinery outfit would have been less austere than the patrol frigate. There were some other unsatisfactory features in the design of the then patrol frigate. 
Over the last three to four years the United States Navy has developed the guided missile frigate to have a capability much closer to the DDL than that of the original patrol frigate design. I might add that some of the improvements have been influenced by the input of Australian professional judgment through RAN participation in the United States Navy program. There will be some relatively minor, modifications in the RAN version of the FFG specifically to meet Australian operational requirements. 
The FFG will provide the RAN with the essential characteristics required in this destroyer acquisition. It will provide them at lower cost. There is no doubt that the DDL would have been a less austere ship and would, if successfully developed, have provided a marginally better fighting capability; but it would now be too late in time. It had reached the preliminary design stage only. 
The DDL program has lost its momentum and the development of a detailed design together with the substantial workload and facilities modernisation program of the Williamstown Dockyard would not permit destroyer construction to commence in Australia until 1980. It is currently estimated that the DDL program for 2 ships would cost about $130m more than the FFG Program-$460m against $330m. The DDL would enter service some S years later that the FFG. I hope that honourable members will take account of the fact that those 2 features have weighed very heavily with the Government in deciding to opt for the FFG. 
The Government believes that the FFG is now the best choice if replacement of destroyers due to retire in the early 1980s is to be effected in a timely and economic fashion. The Government has no doubts that the ships will be a most appropriate adjunct to the Royal Australian Navy. The Navy has demonstrated that the ship will have the performance that it needs in service. Substantial effort has been exerted by the United States and Australian authorities in developing an adequate level of Australian industry participation against an FFG purchase. Provided Australian industry is sufficiently competitive, there is a good prospect of Australian industry participation against the ship acquisition. In this regard we will be supported by the United States Department of Defense and I have directed that my Department make every effort to increase the scope of participation. 
The United States Navy FFG program consists of a lead ship- prototype- and a series of follow-ships. The lead ship was funded in the United States Budget for the fiscal year 1973 and is now under construction. The first 3 follow.ships were funded in the fiscal year 1975. The United States 1976 Defense Appropriation Bill, which includes funds for a further 6 ships, was signed by the  President  on 9 February 1976. In the proposed Budget for the fiscal year 1977 presented to Congress on 21 January 1976, the United States Department of Defense has sought funds for a further 8 follow-ships. The total projected United States program is 70 ships including the lead ship. The FFG program is in a very highly developed state with all weapon and ships systems thoroughly researched and tested at a very considerable expense. The fact that systems have been proved at sea prior even to the building of the lead ship is a strong assurance of the success of the program. We are joining this program on very advantageous conditions. Because it is a major United States program we will reap the benefit of concurrent procurement with the United States and the economies of scale. 
In all, the Government is satisfied that the Navy's present needs for destroyer acquisition will be met by the procurement of the 2 guided missile frigates and that they will prove most adequate to enhance the Navy's destroyer force when they enter service. Whilst these ships represent a significant contribution to the strength of the Royal Australian Navy, the Government believes that further acquisitions will be necessary in due course. Studies are now underway to determine what future additions to the Royal Australian Navy are required. Whether or not future selections are of this type of ship is yet to be determined. I present the following paper: 
Destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy- Ministerial Statement, 18 February 1976. 
by leave- Activities at the Woomera rocket range in South Australia are to be reduced during the next 4 years to a care and maintenance level. This decision has been reached following months of negotiation between United Kingdom and Australian officials. The negotiations are expected to be finalised by British and Australian Ministers by June 1976. Some unfinished British trials will be completed during the run-down period. Some 12 months ago it was announced that activities at the Woomera range would be run down, and that instrumentation and facilities would be held in readiness for a revival if they were required. Since then negotiations have continued, and an agreement in principle has been reached. The run-down of the range will result in a reduction of staff at Woomera and Salisbury by some 700 personnel below the number employed at the beginning of July last year. However, the actual number of staff to be reduced will not be known until further staff studies are completed. 
The Australian Services currently are examining possible uses of the Woomera area. These possibilities are that the area could be suitable for Army and Air Force tactical exercises, and as a range for live firing of ground and air weapons. A policy of replacement only of key staff who leave the trials organisation has been followed since the earlier announcement. As the work load diminishes it will be necessary to re-deploy staff to other employment and to achieve this end a specialist team will be formed to organise the transfer of Australian Public Service staff and temporary employees to new employment. This team will have a representative cell at Woomera to actively assist those people concerned. The Woomera village will continue to provide accommodation and social facilities for people employed at the range and at the Joint Defence Space Communications Station. I present the following paper: 
Future Arrangements at Woomera- Ministerial Statement, 18 February 1976. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 

 - Mr Speaker, before I turn to the speech which has just fallen from the hps of my friend, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  may I join with him in congratulating you on attaining the position of  Speaker  of this Parliament. You and I have had more than 20 years together in this Parliament and I suppose there would be few in the Parliament who would know you as well as I do. Indeed I suppose I could crave your charity and appeal to you not to reveal all of my manifest weaknesses because no person in this Parliament would know them better than you do. I also join with the Leader of the Opposition in congratulating all those honourable members who have made their first speeches in this Parliament. To hold a seat in Parliament is a great honour, no matter what the nature of cynicism in the country may be. It is true, as the last election showed, that the view of the old psalmist put in a secular sense 'for here have we no continuing city' is indeed a very real fact of life. But be the stay short or long in this Parliament all honourable gentlemen will find that the parliamentary institution does contribute something to the safety, security and stability of the country. 
After those encomiums, I turn to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. I am delighted to be able to begin by congratulating him on becoming the Leader of the Opposition. I have no wish to injure my friend's feelings but I tell him, on the basis of a very substantial friendship, that never before has a party been led with firmer assurance into the bleakness of the Opposition benches as was the Labor Party at the last election. May I further congratulate the honourable gent on the speech he has delivered this evening. It surely would represent the most sustained, accomplished piece of moaning this Parliament has ever heard. I do not wish to try to bring my honourable friend out of the past, but I remind him of the fact that the election is over. The situation is like that of the gentleman at the cricket match at Cunnamulla who, as he walked out when given out leg before wicket, said: 'I weren't out', and the umpire said to him: 'You have a look in the paper in the morning'. The honourable gentleman leads an Opposition which faces a Government with the largest majority ever in the history of this Parliament- a majority of fifty-five. Knowing the addiction to a certain sport of the honourable gentleman opposite who is trying to interject, I remind him of the fact that a bookmaker pays on the result and we won by 55 lengths. What the Leader of the Opposition is saying in effect is that the people of Australia were deceived to the extent of giving this Government a majority of fifty-five. Does the honourable gentleman, with all his skill, all his capacity of literacy and articulation say that that does not explain away the fact that in the seat of Werriwa there was a 9.6 per cent swing against him? Whatever the accomplishments of my friend the Leader of the Opposition may be, I am bound to tell him that modesty is not to be included among them. By way of contrast, I turn to the swing to the honourable and gallant gentleman who represents the seat of Riverina. There was a 28.6 per cent swing to him as against a 9.6 per cent swing against the Leader of the Opposition. 
I will come to some of the harshness of the charges which the Leader of the Opposition has made later. My only regret, and I observe it in passing, is that I do not have the luxury of 40 minutes to be able to deal with him in a leisurely fashion as would befit the argument he has put to us this evening. He has covered no fewer than 65 subjects. I say to the honourable gentleman that the speech covered by him this evening would certainly not draw from the Diogenes Society an offer of patronage on his behalf If there is any truth in the honourable gentleman's charges, I invite him to study just one or two of them. Let me turn, for example, to his charge that never before has parliamentary convention been so outraged. I remind my honourable friend that it was in this Parliament that he stood and publicly executed  Mr Speaker  Cope. Parliamentary convention indeed! In the 20 years till 1972, on only 17 occasions was a gag moved by a government but on the last occasion in 1 975 - 
I know the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  cannot take it, but he should try. In 1975 the gag was moved by the Government led by the honourable member for Werriwa on no fewer than 25 occasions- and he speaks of duplicity! Let me remind the honourable gentleman of that fateful meeting on 13 December 1974 at the Lodge when, in blatant contravention of the Loan Council agreement, a loan for $4,000m was whistled up as though he was running a coin evening to raise funds for the Werriwa electorate committee. Did the honourable gentleman do Parliament the courtesy of divulging the full facts of that infamous occasion? Duplicity! I fling the word back into the honourable gentleman's teeth. The fact is that wherever you look in the honourable gentleman's arguments this evening you find example after example of the reason he is in Opposition. The words of John Donne come back: 
But I do nothing upon myself, and yet I am mine own Executioner'. 
The honourable gentleman was his own executioner. The reason he sits on that side of the House is that he failed to take the people of Australia into his confidence. He misled the people of Australia. He gave them the impression that the life Elysium could simply be gained by his Government passing legislation without any relevance to circumstance, to time or to the resources of the country. 
The honourable gentleman is living through a stage of acute fierce delusion, a delusion so intense that he would seek to portray Napoleon's retreat from Moscow as a glorious advance onto the Gold Coast. What was the other charge made by the honourable gentleman this evening? It was a charge of coup d'etat. The honourable gentleman is long skilled in the study of coup d'etats. I ignore that for the time being but let me deal with the specific charge made this evening, namely, that the Governor-General has no power. Would there be a lawyer in this Parliament who would not have read at one time or another the most celebrated study of the reserve powers of the Crown, the work  The King and His Dominion Governors'  by the late  Dr H.  V. Evatt? What was the conclusion of that late right honourable gentleman? He concluded, with respect to the Governor-General's powers, that surely it is wrong to assume that the GovernorGeneral is a mere tool in the hands of a dominant political party. That was the opinion of a far, far greater lawyer, if I may say with infinite respect, than my honourable friend who now leads  Her  Majesty's Opposition in this Parliament. Does he say of Evatt 's conclusion that Evatt was in error? Does he say that Evatt, a man who became one of the youngest judges ever of the High Court of Australia was in error? Does he say of Evatt 's writings, where he examines the whole gamut of authorities with respect to the reserve powers of the Crown: 'No, Herbert Vere Evatt, you were in error. Today, I am the one who will vindicate what is right and what is wrong in this matter. I am the one who will judge. It is my assessment which stands.'? Not one constitutional authority who has ever written on the subject would not conclude that in ultimate terms there is a reserve power of the Crown available and, I say to my honourable friend, available in the United Kingdom as it is here in Australia. 
Does the honourable gentleman say that, for example, of Laski, writing in  Parliamentary Government in England; A Commentary^.  Surely, as Laski went on to write, the mere fact that we do not know the limits of the royal power, that it remains to be invoked on one side or the other in the twilight zone of crisis, is sufficient evidence to indicate the difficulties of the position. That was the view of Laski. Does my honourable friend sneer at that celebrated authority? 
All of his Ministers, one after the other, were asked questions with respect to the holding up of the Estimates. They were asked: 'What effect will this have?' The Ministers, with what I can only describe as a bovine insolence, said: 'Oh, it is going to be terrible'. What the honourable gentleman was doing was putting into practice the thesis of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the quiet revolutionary. The Leader of the Opposition as Prime Minister was bent on carrying out the not so quiet revolution. The honourable gentleman, if he had had the courage, if he had had the sense of judgment, would have had at his disposal an opportunity to have secured a half Senate election. He failed to take that opportunity. He failed to seize it. Now, today, there he is leading a Party that literally has limped back onto the benches of the Opposition. 
I turn from those 2 charges because the people of Australia gave their answer only a few short months ago. The ghosts of the Parliamentary Labor Party are looking at the honourable gentleman this evening, and I strongly suspect that they are not looking with kindness and with any sense of charity as far as his leadership is concerned. What of the former honourable member for Bowman and the former honourable member for Brisbane? Look around this chamber and you will see seat after seat after seat which was not won in some small fashion but won with a thundering majority. But the honourable Leader of the Opposition says: 'Oh no, it has all been a dreadful mistake '. 
If we want to turn away from that engaging matter, let us turn to the assessment of his colleagues. We have the assessment of the honourable gentleman. We have heard that from him, from his own hps: 'The greatest Foreign Minister ever. I am the most important person in the Executive'. That felicitous collocation of words tumbled from the honourable gentleman only a few weeks ago, indeed asserting the family motto- modesty above aU. 
But look at what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  that Venerable Bede in our midst, that one who has years hanging upon him with such tenderness, that man with the distinguished diplomatic grey hair, had to say about his leader. You could practically hear the sobbing note in the voice of the honourable member for Hindmarsh when he said: 'In fact practically the whole Liberal campaign was based upon mistakes that had been made by  Mr Whitlam  without approval or even consultation with Caucus'. Speaking for myself and putting it in blunt Australian language, I would have thought that was a bit of a go if ever there was one. 
Then take the language of the honourable member for Lalor. He did not mince words on the issues. He simply said- I read it to the House-The first thing the Party has to do is to get rid of  Mr Whitlam  as Leader'. At least that has a stimulating sense of candour about it. In ultimate terms- not one of us is at liberty to try to get away from this concept- the true test of any political party is the manner with which it wields power and the way in which the Labor Party wielded power gives a clear emphatic explanation of why it is now in Opposition. It came into government believing that Aladdin's lamp was part of the furnishings of office and aU it had to do was to rub it for anything that any of its members dreamed up. Power was abused in a monstrous, in a constant and in a mischievous fashion. A former Treasurer- I do not know which mark or which edition it was; it was circa 74-said: 'Oh well, the deficit will be $750m'. It turned out to be $2,600m. I only hope that the honourable gentleman never takes to turf tipping because he would impoverish the entire country. 
What was the fact when this Government came into office? We came in- it may be unpleasant but the country must face it- to find an economy in an absolute shambles. There is no getting away from that. It is going to take some tough measures for the country's economy to be put back onto an even keel. The honourable gentleman who leads for the Opposition, speaking in this Parliament in 1974 at a Premiers Conference, so this cannot be looked upon as being desperately out of date, himself pointed towards the central issue when he said: 
In order to help break inflationary expectations, we must now slow the rate of increase in Government spending. 
Who was that? It was the honourable member for Werriwa, the man who leads the Opposition. He said that the rate of government spending must be cut. The honourable gentleman also said: 
Some phasing down or deferment of some expenditure plans must occur. 
The honourable gentleman a few short years before that- it has high relevance today because his followers may reflect upon the language, if not to their pleasure at least to look to the views offered by their Leader in the past- speaking in this Parliament, four years ago almost to the day, said: 
There is the enduring task of reducing inflation. My Party's policies are totally committed to full employment and reducing inflation. 
It makes one wonder what they would be like if it was half-hearted about those things. The distinguishing feature of the Australian economy today is the rampant inflation which was brought about by a government which was seized completely of profligate ideas. I am bound to say that I find myself in a mild measure of conflict with some of my colleagues about the proposal to cancel the $4m bronze bust which the former Government ordered. I think that bust should have been brought out here to mark the most extravagant and the most profligate government in Australia 's history. By contrast, the Byzantine empire, of which the honourable gentleman is more than tolerably familiar, could be looked upon as being made up of people well tutored in the art of restraint. 
The honourable gentleman has brought his Party to this state of distress. At least one must admire his sense of audacity. Audacity, audacity and still more audacity, thundered Lenin. This evening the honourable gentleman was following that concept meticulously. It was a most audacious speech. It was a speech which was calculated to appeal to people on the basis that they could get something in this world for nothing. For 3 years his Government cultivated that instinct in this country. For 3 years the honourable gentleman led a government which had no understanding of the basic economic issues of the nation, which took the view that there is a short cut to prosperity, that people can live out their days in high comfort, that there is no need to observe any sense of discipline, that reason can be despised. No nation has survived on a diet of government of that character in the past. Slothfulness has no role to play in Australia. We must resort and return to all the disciplines of reason. This nation must get back to responsibility. It must get back to a clear, firm understanding that there is nothing wrong with this nation that cannot be solved, provided there is a will to solve it; and provided, beyond that, that there are men and women prepared to work to make it so. 
There is no proposal by the Department of Defence to acquire any of the weapons to which the honourable gentleman has referred. 
I am under no misapprehension at all as to the nature of the information which the honourable gentleman is seeking. The reply given by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs yesterday was, in my respectful judgment, an immaculate reply. It was an accurate reply.  His  reply today, I believe, conformed to the description I have just given. It is an argument which- my friend will understand the language-I adopt in its entirety. 
I could give the honourable gentleman a very short answer and say: 'emphatically yes'. There is a very substantial case for ordering more patrol boats. I hope that the honourable gentleman's question will encourage a wider and, if I may say with respect, a better informed public debate about an issue which is growing perceptibly in intensity. Without anticipating the outcome of the Law of the Sea Conference, if that Conference should confer upon littoral states an exclusive resources zone of some 200 miles, the problem for this country will be very significant indeed. The Government has received tenders for a patrol boat definition study from 11 tenderers. They are currently being considered. I am seeking ways and means of accelerating the examination of the tenders. 1 hope that within the next few months we may have moved perceptibly towards a position where a decision can be made as to the type of patrol boat. 
In reply to the honourable gentleman, may I say that I am touched indeed by the solicitude that he now holds for the nation's standing abroad. I regret that I cannot answer my honourable friend in the particular, but I give him a firm assurance that I shall at once set in train such inquiries as may be appropriate. But I remind him of the fact that this would not be the first occasion on which Service establishments have been used for the purposes of raising money for charity. 
I am glad to be able to inform the honourable member for Henty that the Government has adopted in its entirety the recommendations of the Millar Committee's report. I am sure that my honourable friend will acknowledge the fact that to implement a report of that character calls in the first place for time. A number of recommendations have already been put into effect. It was only a few weeks ago that the Army Reserve Advisory Council has its first meeting and that Council will advise the Chief of the General Staff and the Government on how better to implement the other recommendations of the report. Finally, the honourable gentleman will acknowledge that in ultimate terms the 
Government's acceptance and the implementation of the Millar Committee 's report calls for an amendment to the Defence Act,, and that is currently being studied by the Government. 
I regret that I cannot answer in particular the honourable gentleman's question. I shall treat that question as being on notice and ensure that he gets a reply this afternoon. 
I would have been happier if I could have been spared this question; but, seeing it has been asked, I suppose that I should tell all and show all. I have what the doctors describe as ecchymosis of the left orbital. I understand it, on more familiar terms, to be a black eye. It has been a most distressing and embarrassing experience. I am bound to tell my friend, the honourable member for Wakefield that, but it has not been entirely without compensation. I would never have thought it possible that such a myriad of colour could gather together on one face. I am puzzled; I do not know whether it is the rising sun or the setting sun. I should tell the honourable gentleman how it happened. I was having breakfast at Tiflfanys. There were 2 ladies there from Iraq. They started to fight over me. I was lacking in all sense of discretion. I started to intervene. The moral of the story is this: Never let 2 ladies fight over you. That is the most plausible story I can give to the honourable member for Wakefield. If he can think of anything better I would be even further in his debt. 
-Yes, I did see the report. In the 20 years that I have been in this Parliament I have never claimed, to have been misreported. On this occasion I do not claim to have been misreported. I can recall, vividly, some occasions when I regret that I was reported. The report was based on what I may, with respect, describe as a misunderstanding. Last week during the course of an interview I was asked what was, having regard to prevailing circumstances in Australia, the optimum size of the Australian Army- in other words, what was the most desirable level. I referred to a report known as the FarrandsHassett report which was prepared by 2 very distinguished Australians, the present Chief of the Defence Force Staff and the Chief Defence Scientist,  Dr Farrands.  One of the theses argued in that report was that to facilitate maximum use of all military skills and to have access to all military skills a figure of 38 000 in the Army would be regarded as most desirable. 
The gentleman who interviewed me when he turned in his copy, for reasons which were to me quite unintelligible, omitted to make any reference to the Farrands-Hassett report. I lodge no complaint about it. That story subsequently was taken up and, again with respect, a gloss given to it with the result that it appeared as though I was arguing, as of today, 3 March 1976, for the immediate establishment of an army of 38 000. That is not the Government's policy as it is presently understood. We are seeking to ensure that what we regard as a significant shortfall in equipment is the problem that is attacked first. Nevertheless I can assure the honourable gentleman that it does remain the Government's intention to respect that objective and as a consequence we propose, in the present 5-year defence program, to try to secure a figure of 34 000 by 1978. 
I find myself in substantial agreement with the proposition which resides in my honourable friend's question. I thought the answer I gave to the honourable member for Herbert yesterday would have dealt in all particulars with the question which the honourable member for Fremantle has now put. May I briefly recapitulate what I said yesterday. A report prepared some years ago, known as the Farrands-Hassett report, argued that in order to facilitate access to all military skills- that is to say, facilitate with the maximum efficiency- the desideratum in terms of the optimum size of the Australian Army was 38 000 persons. The Government, for reasons which I am sure the honourable gentleman will acknowledge as being sound, takes the view that the figure is not immediately within reach. As a consequence, the present size of the Army is 31 500 persons. We seek, in the present 5-year defence program, to raise that figure to 34 000 persons by the year 1978. So, in summary, I say that the honourable gentleman and myself are in agreement. We seek to put the emphasis upon defence equipment at the moment and at some time in the future to gain the ultimate, the desideratum in terms of the size of the Australian Army. May I assure the honourable gentleman and the House that the fact that we do not have 38 000 persons, the maximum desired by the Government's military advisers, is not to be taken as any indication that the country is being denied access to military skills. That is the figure which would enable the most efficient access to the skills. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2) 
I understand the honourable member's concern. He may be assured that I will arrange for the matter to be reviewed, and reviewed sympathetically. I am bound to point out to the honourable member that my understanding is that there are numbers of commercial helicopters available and that they could be used. I am sure that my honourable friend will acknowledge the fact that the Royal Australian Air Force has in recent weeks played an outstanding role in bringing assistance to people in distress and in helping to save the lives of thousands of live-stock. I assure the honourable member that I will review the decision I have made and will do so sympathetically. 
It is a fact that there has not been one day's debate on defence in this Parliament since December 1972. Honourable gentlemen who sat in the last Parliament will recall that those of us who sat in the then Opposition regarded this as a matter for complaint and as a matter for lament. It is clear, as is shown by the scars and the experience borne by honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House, that no political party represented in this Parliament has any monopoly of patriotism. The Government does take the view that it is wrong and immature that the country has been denied a sustained parliamentary debate on the question of defence. As a consequence of taking that view the Government will seek, at an appropriate time, to put down a White Paper on defence. When that White Paper would be put down of course would depend upon what arrangements could be made by the Leader of the House. That in turn would be governed by the legislative program. But I make it clear to the honourable gentleman and to the House that the Government does regard this as a matter of urgency. There are differences between the Government and Opposition members regarding defence. Some of those differences may be regarded as significant, but we believe that the proper way to seek to resolve them is to discuss those differences in this Parliament. 
For the information of honourable members I present copies of the directives that set out the responsibilities to me of senior service and civilian officers of the defence organisation and relationships between various areas of responsibilities of those officers. These directives came into force on 9 February 1976 with the implementation of major provisions of the Defence Force Re-Organisation Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

 Mr Cobden, who I am informed is an officer of the Australian National Gallery, travelled by VIP aircraft on 24 and 26 October 1975; 6, 9 and 10 November 1975; 6 and 8 December 1975, by authority of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. 
Yes, this matter has been brought to my notice on a great number of occasions and it has caused me considerable anxiety.  (Opposition members interjecting)- 
This is a matter of some seriousness to those who serve in the defence forces. It is not a matter of jocularity. May I make it quite clear that there is no proposal before the Government to disturb the commutation provisions of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act and to my knowledge there is no such proposal in contemplation. I do not know who originated this rumour. 1 would like to meet him. He would be saved from one horrible fate by one fact; if we were not in the middle of Lent I would eat him. 
Yes, my attention was drawn to the 2 reports to which the honourable gentleman referred. When I announced the Government's decision regarding the patrol frigates in February of this year I used a figure of $330m. As presently advised, I see no reason to modify that figure in any shape or form. But I make it quite clear to the House that the future has a measure of uncertainty about it. This is particularly so with respect to inflation. That is the reason why the Government led by the right honourable the Prime Minister takes such a stern view towards inflation. If I may illustrate the point, I can recall a speech having been made some 3 years ago by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. He said that if a rate of inflation of 13 per cent a year were to continue to the turn of the century, it would mean that a modest cottage costing $20,000 in 1973 would cost $lm by the year 2000. If I may say so, that was a splendid piece of preaching. The response from those around him was dismal. That is the reason why the Treasurer, the Prime Minister and those of us who sit in the Government with the Prime Minister are determined to bring inflation under control. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The Agreement expired on 1 April 1 970. 
(a)- 
Nil except for brief visits by Australian scientists. 
Nil. (b)- 
(A) to (D). No detailed records were kept but the number of regular operators was four. A few additional members were there during the building of the station only and two other members arrived in the latter part of the March ( 1 970) quarter to assist in dismantling the equipment. 
Nil. 
The work involved the study of ionospheric propagation in relation to long-range radio paths. 
The results of the study are still classified. However, the data were made available to interested Australian government officials. 
The total cost of the project was borne by the United States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Surveillance of the north west coast and the Gulf is a joint effort by patrol boats, RAAF LRMP and RAN Tracker aircraft. The number of patrol boats on station at any time is dependent on operational commitments but it is presently planned to vary between a minimum of two and a maximum of five. These will be divided between the two areas. A total of eight boats will be required to maintain these numbers. 
The role of the Defence Force in coastal surveillance/patrol is to provide assistance to the responsible civil authorities on an agreed basis. The adequacy or otherwise of the assistance is a matter for those authorities to judge. My understanding is that my colleagues are satisfied that the appropriate level of Defence Force effort is being provided. The matter is being kept under continuous review. 
-In replying to the honourable member for Tangney I am tempted to use language which would not become this House. As to the basis of the matter raised by the honourable gentleman, there is no such proposal in prospect. I would nevertheless make it clear to the House, as has been stated - 
As a matter of fact, it is called Garden Island. It has been stated by the Prime Minister and by me on several occasions that the use of the faculty in Western Australia by the United States of America will be welcomed by this Government. 
The honourable member for Kennedy comes from a hardy race. I would, nevertheless, indicate to the House that the use of the facility would, in my respectful opinion, be very properly a matter for parliamentary debate, and at some convenient time I would seek to facilitate that debate. Nevertheless, I make this observation: I hope the House understands that the United Nations today has in operation some 1 14 submarines and that 105 of those submarines are nuclear powered submarines. I would regard it as craven, cowardly and contemptible that we should say to the United States of America: 'No, none of your submarines can use that base unless they are conventionally powered submarines. ' I hope that the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who is interjecting, also understands that one cannot get specific performance of a treaty agreement. The only thing, in ultimate terms, that one can cash is goodwill. This Government, unlike the previous Government, is determined to build it up. 
-It was my expectation that I might have been in a position to make a decision on this matter at the end of last month. I should apologise to the House and to all those people who have been interested in the issue for not having so resolved the matter. It is not a case of dither or irresolution on my part. But I asked people who were interested to give me the benefit of their views. I should observe that I have received more than 1000 letters on this issue. All of those letters were entitled to consideration; all of those letters have been so considered. My understanding is that a draft paper has been prepared. It will be considered departmentally within the next week. If that be the case, it would be my expectation that the Government would have an opportunity to consider it, say, within the next 2 weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 25 January 1976 1 announced that plans were to be drawn up for a new system of Service Cadets. Planning is still proceeding and up until quite recently I have received a large number of quite substantial submissions from interested bodies. These submissions must be closely examined before a new scheme is introduced. 
The nature of the new scheme will be dependent upon the outcome of the present examination, however it will rely more heavily on voluntary support from the community than in the past. 
An official announcement concerning the new scheme will be made as soon as practicable after the examination is completed. 
I am glad to be able to inform the honourable gentleman that the Government has authorised me to prepare legislation to update pensions paid out of the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Fund and Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Fund. May I apologise to the recipients under those 2 funds for the delay which has been involved? I personally do not seek to be excused; but, in search of some measure of understanding, possibly of some exculpation, I point out that this matter has been under our control for but a few months, whereas our predecessors had it under their control for several years. Having said that, I would add that there are honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House who fight both inside and outside this chamber for various causes, often against indifference, frequently against blunt antagonism. The honourable member for Herbert has been a persistent supporter of beneficiaries under the 2 funds to which I have referred. I would presume to thank him on behalf of those who are beneficiaries under those funds, and I trust on behalf of all honourable members in this House, for the sustained interest that he has shown for a very long time. 
I am indebted to the interjection of the right honourable member for Lowe, pointing out a blemish in the substantial argument put by the honourable member for Oxley. He said, in a felicity of language to which we are all accustomed: 'That is untrue'. I am prepared to accept the argument put by the right honourable member for Lowe but I say this to the honourable member for Oxley: I did not say that the person who held that attitude was craven, cowardly and contemptible; indeed, on the contrary, I said that the attitude itself was craven, cowardly and contemptible. I would like to know - 
The honourable member is a budding lawyer. He must learn to distinguish fine points. I assure the honourable gentleman that in my tender care and under my tuition he will succeed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. A review of rentals and other aspects of Service housing was conducted in 1974 and 1975 leading to the introduction of the Defence Group Rent Scheme which takes effect on 15 April 1976. 
It is not intended to increase substantially the rents for all Service housing. 
Service housing rentals were derived from various formulae depending on whether the house was Australian Government owned or provided by the States under the Commonwealth States Housing Agreement. The Defence Group Rent Scheme uses the aggregate of Service housing rentals to set a scale of average rentals which are related to the quality of the house provided and to the rank of the Service tenant. The scheme will apply throughout Australia, with the exception of the Northern Territory, and will provide Servicemen with a predictable, equitable and easily understood rental situation. Some Servicemen will experience an increase in rental and others a decrease. The rentals range, according to rank levels and standards of dwelling, from $7.50 to $30.50 a week which compares most favourably to market rates. A comprehensive education program has been undertaken and Service lecture teams visited the majority of Service establishments in February and March 1976 to explain both the concept and application of the Group Rent Scheme which as I mentioned earlier will take effect on 15 April 1976. 
I can give the honourable gentleman that assurance. I answered a question on this matter some two or three weeks ago and I observed on that occasion that I found myself distressed that this rumour had been circulated. Indeed, I think I was moved to say that if we had not been in Lent I would have resorted to munching the person who started the rumour. I appreciate the honourable gentleman's interest in this matter. No proposal to alter that particular provision in any shape or form is before the Government. I know of no such proposal which is in a state of formulation. 
Yes, I have seen that report. I told the House a week ago that more than 1000 submissions relating to the restoration of the school cadets had been received. I also told the House that the processing of those submissions was taking longer than I had expected. We all are given to a number of frailties, and I suppose I have more than my fair share. 
But I am bound to say, as the Prime Minister has said, that I enjoy them. I also admit to that. Selfishness I try to eschew, but when it comes to people making a proposal and taking the view that their proposal is the only proposal to be considered, I regard that as blatant selfishness. In this instance many of the submissions that have been received have been interesting. They have called for a great deal of consideration. I told the House that it was my expectation that in the course of the next couple of weeks the Government would make a decision as to what form the restoration of the cadet corps would take. I would not seek to deceive the House in any shape or form. If I find that I am unable to meet that timetable I will come back and inform the House to that effect. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  will appreciate that despite some significant political differences between the two of us I have contrived to maintain a measure of admiration for the honourable gentleman. Indeed, on occasions I could describe it as a tender form of admiration for the honourable gentleman. I am bound to tell him that today he has earned in my regard a new ground upon which I can base my admiration. I can only say of the honourable gentleman- I say it without any warmth at all- that he would have probably the most splendidly developed hide in Australia. The honourable gentleman said that since this Bill was last before us there has been a number of incidents. That is perfectly true. All of us have become acquainted with Iraq and the geography of the country. The honourable gentleman went to breakfast. I went to breakfast. We all went to breakfast. We all are better informed. The honourable gentleman then had the hide to say that this Bill produces clarity upon the question of gifts. 
I will come to the honourable gentleman later on. I ask him not to encourage me to do so too quickly because it may be a matter of some regret to him when I come to his arguments. To come back to the Leader of the Opposition, I say this: Such is the nature of his hide that if one were to soak him in neatsfoot oil for a month he still would not be soft. 
This is an incredible Bill. May I say for the Government that we do not adopt the attitude of complete rejection of the principle of adopting a moderate, sensible approach to the question of regulating donations to political parties. I state that as a broad principle. But does this Bill achieve that? I doubt it very much. The Bill does anything but bring clarity to the issue. I propose to go through some of the provisions of the Bill and invite my friend the Leader of the Opposition to reflect upon some of them with me. I am sure that the two of us will enjoy it immensely. 
First of all, I come to what I regard and the Government regards as a very basic principle, that is whether or not governments should trench upon the rights of individuals to lend their support to political parties. It is all very fine for the honourable gentleman to toss that argument to one side as though there is no substance in it. I invite the honourable gentleman to reflect upon the principle that is involved. Under this Bill if it were enacted into law and became part of the Electoral Act, no person could make a gift of over $ 100 to a political party at election time unless the money was given to an agent and there was a disclosure. I thought that we always prided ourselves upon having an affection for democracy. Is the honourable gentleman serious when he says that this legislation does not trammel rights at all? Many people I know who support the Australian Labor Party as they support the Liberal Party give more than $100 to political parties. These people have a preference for anonymity. Does the honourable gentleman say that that right should be not merely ignored but torn up? That is the effect of the proposal under this Bill. 
I put it to the honourable gentleman: It is a significant invasion of the rights of people to support political parties. There are other ways of testing this principle. What if a prominent citizen for some reason, perhaps because of the creation of some particular political issue, says: 'I want to support this particular party on this occasion"? Is he not entitled to remain anonymous if he wishes? I invite the honourable gentleman to go back to the election of 1972 when many people supported his Party, probably for the first time. Many of them were anonymous in terms of the support which they gave to the Labor Party. In my view they were entitled to have their identity concealed if that were their wish. 
Let me come to some of the provisions in the Bill. I am sure that the honourable gentleman will realise that it is not the simple issue that he has asserted. Under proposed new section 145 in the definition section of the Bill we find the following provision:  'Electoral expenditure' means expenditure for or in connexion with promotion or opposing, directly or indirectly, a party or the election of a candidate or candidates or of influencing, directly or indirectly, the voting at an election, but does not include- 
Who determines whether something is being done indirectly? What sort of a forum is going to hear argument on the question? Then there follows this extraordinary provision: 
reasonable personal living and travelling expenses of a candidate; 
What is meant by 'reasonable personal living and travelling expenses'? Who determines that? I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to consider what is involved here. Is an agent, a person, a public official, entitled to come into the home of the honourable member for Port Adelaide and to say to him: 'In my judgment you are not living in a reasonable fashion '? 
-This is so. I am indebted to the honourable member for Prospect. One may take as an example the Leader of the Opposition, who is disposed towards living in the sybaritic tradition, who may say: 'Well, I regard all this as being quite reasonable'. But on the other hand one may find individuals with rugged backgrounds such as my friend the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who would have a clear preference for the more rugged and more robust form of life. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide - 
To that extent my honourable friend is at an immense disadvantage. I seek to recapitulate the argument. I am turning the attention of the House to a consideration of what is meant by 'reasonable living expenses', and who is to determine it. I was asking how is the issue to be determined? If the official were to come into my home at, say, 2 o'clock in the morning, would that be a reasonable hour for him to find out whether I am living in a reasonable fashion? Under this Bill the official would be entitled to come in to my home at breakfast time, open the refrigerator, take one look at what is inside it and say: 'Killen, because of all this meat in here, you are not living in a reasonable fashion'. If I pointed out to the official that the meat was not for me but for the Great Dane dog, under this Bill the onus of proof would be on the Great Dane dog and not upon me. Probably it would be difficult to find a Bill that has been drawn in a worse fashion than the Bill before us. 
What about the running expenses of a party? One could well take the example that at other than election time a party may seek to use running expenses to cultivate public sentiment in a fashion that would in terms of an election outcome be substantial. Under this provision which relates to electoral expenditure such expenses are not covered. 
I go on to some of the other provisions. The honourable member for Port Adelaide, in his Bill, has a provision that in the case of a Senate election a party may spend 1.5c by the relevant State factor. I take it that 1.5c is multiplied by the number of electors in the State. I want to ask the honourable gentleman this question, not in a captious or frivolous way: What is the virtue of 1.5c? 
The honourable gentleman is now teasing me. I enjoy it enormously. He said: 'Well, move an amendment. Make it 2c, 4c or 5c'. What if that suggestion were to be taken seriously? What I am putting to the honourable gentleman is this: By what process has he decided that there is great virtue in having 1.5c as the amount to be spent? The amount to be spent at a House of Representatives election is 7.5c by the relevant division factor. I put this to the honourable gentleman: As a matter of plain, blunt common sense, it seems to be a decidedly unattractive way of meeting the problem as he identifies it. 
There is provision in the Bill that agents are to be appointed. I hope all honourable members clearly understand that no money can be spent at an election unless the money is first of all given to the agent authorised by a person. No person may spend money unless he has the authority of the agent. All of this plainly predicates that Parkinson's Law will be resorted to again. A whole bureaucracy to maintain and control the provisions of the Bill would need to be established. A whole paraphernalia would need to be created just for one purpose. I move on. If 3 months before the election date an honourable member gives anything to a club- a cup to a football club or a donation to a charity- that is an offence. How is it to be known when an election is to be held? We have lived in this place through uncertain days in the past. If an honourable member should make a donation to any charity he can be prosecuted under the provision. It is true that the Bill provides a defence to a prosecution for an offence against the sub-section that if the defendant proves that at the time he made the offer, promise or gift the date for the polling had not been fixed and he believed on reasonable grounds that that date would not be a date within a period of 3 months after the making of the offer, promise or gift. Big deal. First of all, the gift is made. There is an infringement against the section. A prosecution is launched. The onus of proof is on the defendant, not on the prosecuting authority. It never ceases to stagger me how the Labor Party, which has over a long period made clarion calls about the onus of proof and the need for it to remain where it is by tradition- it has been maintained there because of considerable sacrifice by many people- will quite wantonly abandon the position relating to where the onus of proof should lie. 
To go on dealing with the other provisions in the Bill would be a rather tedious operation, but I invite all honourable gentlemen who may possibly be succumbing to the argument which was offered by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, in a very moderate fashion, to look at the provisions in this Bill. If they do they will come to the conclusion that the Bill is completely and utterly unworkable. I have adverted to the fact that it represents a substantial invasion of the rights of individuals. I have adverted to the fact that it would be possible for the provisions of the Bill, as it is now drawn, to be circumvented with very great ease. I want to give some further illustrations, if I may. What would be the case if an organisation such as the Institute of Public Affairs or a trade union such as the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia placed advertisements in newspapers or on television away from election time? I think some of the daily papers this week have had large display advertisements relating to particular political causes. I take the view- I would like to think that every honourable member takes the view- that those organisations have a perfect right to put such advertisements in newspapers and to take a particular attitude in relation to any contemporary event. Under this Bill, would they be caught? No, they would not. They are plainly advertisements directed towards cultivating a particular form of political support, encouraging a particular form of political sentiment. The honourable member for Port Adelaide dismissed that with a shrug and said: 'It does not greatly matter'. 
What is the position relating to what one may describe as non-financial assistance- the hundreds and hundreds of people with their various political allegiances who turn out on polling day? This is not caught up in the Bill. Yet this represents a very substantial form of support to any political party. 
My major complaint about this Bill is that it is designed to give support to established political parties. We know that from time to time issues develop and political parties come into being. They may pass like the caravans on their way to Baghdad. Nevertheless, those people who feel warmly about issues are entitled to express their feelings. Under this Bill what encouragement would they get? The honourable member for Port Adelaide seems to think there is great virtue in the public purse supporting political parties. I fail to see any argument in support of the contention that political parties should be supported by the taxpayer. I think that for the taxpayer, a long suffering creature, to be asked to submit to a further burden is completely indefensible. I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide to consider the consequences of introducing legislation of this nature. He is seeking to regulate and to control every aspect of political activity. I am sure I speak for all honourable gentlemen on this side of the House when I say that I find  something utterly improper and quite unwholesome about governments seeking to regulate the activities of political parties in such a finite sense. 
For the reasons which I have advanced the Government will not support the Bill. The Government does not set its face in some firm way against the principle which one may apprehend resides in the Bill. In other words, if a sensible, moderate approach could be made to this problem, the Government would certainly be prepared to consider it. We will not entertain a Bill of this character, which represents, on the one hand, a singular invasion of the rights of individuals and, on the other hand, the establishment of gross paraphernalia to police it, where the provisions are plainly in contrast to the genuine instinct of a democratic society. For these reasons the Government will not support the measure which the honourable gentleman has introduced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The term 'capital equipment', as currently defined, refers to: the purchase, construction/manufacture of substantial items of equipment such as ships, aircraft, tanks etc. which are additional to or in replacement of items in the Services inventory and includes their handling equipment, machinery and initial range of spare pans; the modernisation and conversion of substantial items of equipment; the replacement of existing equipment, machinery and plant and store holdings with new types, the provision of additional items to increase stock levels and a small quantity for the study of techniques. 
The definition has not changed since 1 968-69. 
(a) Nil. (b) Nil. 
VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 252) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) By agreement with the civil authorities having responsibilities for law enforcement in Australia's maritime environs, the Defence Force allocates some specific effort to surveillance primarily for civil purposes. Seven patrol boats based at Cairns and Darwin spend about 80 per cent of their operational time on surveillance and some 1250 flying hours by RAAF aircraft are assigned to similar tasks annually. In addition all Defence vehicles which operate off the Australian coast are instructed to report items, including foreign fishing vessels, which might prove of interest to the civil authorities. It follows that the numbers of personnel engaged on surveillance varies continuously dependent upon the number of vehicles involved. 
The formal program of routine surveillance is varied according to need and can be augmented for specific civil surveillance purposes when considered necessary. In recent months this flexibility has enabled surveillance of the Gulf of Carpentaria and the North West Coast to be increased well above normal rates of effort. 
The formal commitment of Defence effort to coastal surveillance is of some training benefit to Defence and the principal criteria for additional effort are operational availability and compatibility with other training aims. In these circumstances it is difficult to ascribe any meaningful measure of cost either to civil surveillance in general or to the specific undertaking of fishery patrols. 
Surveillance assistance provided by the Defence Force to the civil authorities is currently funded entirely from within the Defence Vote. This surveillance effort is kept under continuous review to ensure economic and effective utilisation of the limited resources available. 
VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 303) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 11 March 1976, an aircraft of No. 34 Squadron, RAAF, called at Mount Gambier as part of a normal crew training and airfield proving flight over the routes CanberraEast Sale-Mount GambierHorshamWarracknabealNhillNar acoorte-Mount Gambier-Canberra. 
The Squadron Catering Officer took the opportunity of the stops at Mount Gambier to proceed to Coonawarra to purchase wine for official use on VIP aircraft flights. 
I am glad to inform the honourable gentleman that this matter at long last has been resolved. It has been outstanding, regrettably, since October 1972. The Government has made a decision that the surplus of assets over liabilities in the Fund will be distributed. I shall seek leave tomorrow to make a statement on this matter. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends 2 Acts of this Parliament. It amends the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Act and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act. The difference between the 2 Acts of Parliament can be recalled by the House by going back to the Jess Committee's report of 1972 when a new Defence Force Retirement Benefits Act was proposed by that Committee. The incoming Government introduced legislation to give effect to the recommendations of the Jess Committee's report. This Bill falls into 3 parts. The first part is preliminary, the second part deals with the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act and the third part deals with what I may describe as the post- Jess Committee's Act, namely the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefit Act. 
In this Bill the Government acknowledges the fact that there is an interim method of adjustment being made. I am bound to tell the House in simple candour that the Government would be anxious to stand back with the method of adjustment. In other words, we would have a distinct preference for a permanent and regular method of adjustment. This was one of the recommendations made by the Jess Committee's report in 1 972. It was the previous Government 's intentions to introduce a permanent method of updating benefits or pensions received under the respective legislation. I would like to make it clear that it is the present Government's intention to have a permanent method of updating and making adjustments to benefits received by recipients under the 2 Acts. But I would hope that the beneficiaries would be generous and indulgent enough to acknowledge the fact that the Government has just recently considered the conditions relating to the Commonwealth Superannuation Act and the basis there for updating pensions. As a consequence of that the Government is now proceeding to a consideration of introducing permanent methods of updating pensions payable under these 2 Acts. 
Having said that, may I say that these pensions will be paid retrospective to July 1975. With respect to the 2 Acts that this Bill seeks to amend, the pensions which are paid are marginally different. In the case of the defence force retirement benefit pension recipients the method of alteration is related to the Government's share of the pension. Both Acts which this legislation seeks to amend have of course a clear relationship to the 17.6 per cent increase in the consumer price index to, I believe, March 1975. In the case of DFRB pensions the Government's share will be multiplied by 1.4 times 17.6. This calculation is applied to the Government's share of the DFRB pension. But in the case of defence force retirement and death benefits recipients it will be one times 17.6 applied to the whole of the pension. 
There would be very few members of this Parliament who would know better than you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there are distinctions between the 2 schemes. While it would not be appropriate for me now in introducing a Bill of this nature to dilate on those differences, I observe that these differences exist and as a consequence of them there is a different method of updating the 2 pensions. In general terms there will be approximately a 20 per cent increase in the pension entitlement of DFRB beneficiaries. Some adjustments in respect of arrears will be made in the case of DFRB pensioners as the position has now been cleared in respect of the method of calculating the government share of that pension. You will appreciate further,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this is an area by no means free of technicalities and complexities. Indeed, when one looks at the various categories under which the Government's share of pension may be payable, that point is clear to ready demonstration. Adjustments will, of course, be made to pensions paid to widows and to children who have an entitlement under the legislation. 
The only other matter I would draw to the attention of the House concerns DFRDB pensioners who retired prior to July 1975. An adjustment will be made to the percentage which will affect their entitlement in respect of the 12-month period.  Sir, it  would not be inappropriate to conclude on this note: You, as the honourable member for Herbert, my honourable friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the honourable and gallant member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer), Senator Devitt  and  Senator Maunsell-  3 honourable members from this place and 2 senators from the other placehave continued to show a very lively and a very compassionate interest in the welfare of exservicemen and in particular in securing the appropriate adjustments to the pension entitlements of ex-servicemen. I would take leave on behalf of the Government to thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Isaacs and the 2 senators to whom I have referred for the continued interest in this very difficult area of law. I commend the Bill to the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board, together with a report to the Board by the Australian Government Actuary on the assets and liabilities of the Fund at 30 September 1972. 1 seek leave to make a short statement on the report 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 will be happy to arrange for the honourable member and appropriate officials of the Victorian and Commonwealth Governments to visit Portsea and consider what arrangements might be contemplated. 
Yes. 
No. Army apprentices undergo a long term and full time course, which would not permit their involvement in such a task. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated to the Parliament on 31 March 1976, it is hoped that a decision on the arrangements to apply in the Defence Force Cadet organisation will be announced in the near future. 
Foreign Vessels: Fisheries and Health Hazards (Question No. 335)  Mr Lloyd  asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 128 concerning patrol boats, quarantine and foreign fishing vessels, does his statement that the appropriate level of Defence Force effort is being provided refer to the possibility that the number mentioned is the maximum that can be provided or to the possibility that the level of activity is adequate to protect this country from either threat. 
In his reply will he consider the accusation that Oriental Fruit Fly was introduced into Australia by Taiwanese fishing vessels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 'Appropriate' implies that the present Defence Force effort is assessed as cost effective by the relevant authorities. It is not of course the maximum which could be provided should priorities change in the amount of effort allocated to assistance to the civil authorities as against purely Defence matters. 
Whether or not foreign fishing vessels pose problems of a fishery or health nature falls within the jurisdiction of my colleagues the Ministers for Primary Industry or Health. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter has been carefully and thoroughly investigated and continued use of this Defence installation for the foreseeable future is confirmed. 
Defence (Army) controls approximately 106 hectares of which only SO hectares are not available to the public. The island continues to be used frequently for training. The types of training undertaken include assault, swimmer courses, underwater demolition training, navigation exercises, operational mapping exercises and annual Army Reserve training. Use is also made of the facility for training by Navy and RAAF. 
There is only one Military member permanently stationed on the Island. He has one assistant for approximately three months of the year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Typical average presences of Soviet naval and navalassociated ships in the Indian Ocean 1 97 1 - 1 975 are as shown 
This is a matter that was examined by the Millar Committee which reported to the Minister and to the Parliament in 1974. The Millar Committee described the basis on which the administrative arrangements were made for assessing travel allowances as complex and recommended that that basis should be disturbed. It recommended in its place a flat rate of $1.20 per attendance at parades. That recommendation was considered by the steering committee of the Defence Conditions of Services Committee, which recommended against accepting the $1.20 for each parade attendance. Instead, it advanced the idea that there should be a differential on the basis of concentric circles of, say, 10 kilometres radius which would determine what the rate would be. The Defence Conditions of Services Committee in turn did not accept that recommendation. At a time when the Inspector-General of the Army Reserve,  Major General  J. M. L. MacDonald, recommended that the original proposal, namely, the differential, should be accepted, the government of the day- I offer no impeachment here at all- elected to accept the flat rate of $ 1 .20. Since that time the Chief of the General Staff, Major-General A. L. MacDonald, has taken the view that the present arrangement is not an equitable one. I am bound to say in simple candour that that is a view I take myself. The matter is currently under examination. 
I am aware of the matter to which the honourable member has referred. I am also aware of the interest he has shown in the issue. This issue has been far more difficult to resolve than was my previous anticipation, and for that I should apologise to the House and to the country, but I have not been able to resolve it before now. I will tell the House why. The Air Training Corps, to which the honourable gentleman refers, is made up of predominantly open units. There are some 94 open units not attached to any school which involve members of the ATC. There are some 21 units which are closed units. As against that, all the 320 Army Cadet units were closed units. On the other hand, some 43 naval cadet units were open units and two were closed units. I was seeking to devise a formula whereby there was a recognition of the Army cadet tradition which has long accompanied many great public schools and many great state schools and an effort to preserve that tradition and at the same time to give access to cadet units by people who were not in attendance at those schools. So far I have failed; but I am in the process of considering yet a fresh paper which has been put before me. Let me say that it is the Government's clear commitment to restore the cadet system in some form or another. It is also the Government's clear commitment to seek to save money wherever possible. It is my task to find an equipoise between the two. It is a job with which I am continuing to battle. I would hope that I would be able to put a statement before the House in the very near future. 
in reply- Very briefly, I thank the House and honourable gentlemen who have spoken for their reception of the Bill. I am delighted that the Bill will be accorded a speedy passage through this House. I trust that, despite the quiet pessimism of my friend, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  it will receive an equally speedy passage through the other place, because I am most anxious that the benefits of this legislation should be received by those entitled to them. I readily acknowledge the gentle admonition of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  concerning the complexity of this legislation. The draft Bill that was handed to me by one of the parliamentary advisers before Easter had attached to it a note which read: 'Everyone has his personal  via dolorosa.  Here is your Easter reading'. The complexity of the Bill is quite daunting. One of the reasons why the Jess Committee was appointed was to try to take out of the legislation the complexities which were lodged there. It is an old school, I know, but I still adhere to it, which believes that legislation should be intelligible to people who have been instructed in the 3 Rs; but I venture the view that one would need to go to a lawyer with a considerable degree of brashness, to those who are involved in the discipline of administering the legislation constantly or indeed to actuaries to gain a perceptive understanding of the full implications of the Bill. 
It is sad that Parliament should be put into this situation. I went through the Bill over Easter. I will not say which day of the Easter-tide it was. I was mighty glad when I was finished. Even though I would be quite confident of sustaining an argument on any aspect of the Bill, I would have some doubts that I should be confident as to the quality of the argument that I might mount. Having said that, let me assure the honourable member for Oxley and my honourable friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  that it certainly would be my anxiety and that of the Government to get a simple formula for the updating of defence force retirement benefits and defence force retirement and death benefits. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  will recall the discussions which took place during the deliberations of the Jess Committee. This is one of the recommendations made in the Committee 's report. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports chided me in his typically charitable way. He asked why the Government should apply 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index to five-sevenths, or the Government's contribution, of the pension. He asked whether it would not have been simpler to have opted for applying to the whole pension one times the increase in the consumer price index. I am bound to tell my honourable friend that I am attracted to the simplicity of that suggestion; but, having regard to the long time which had elapsed and the fact that a considerable amount of work had already been done with respect to the DFRB pensioners, I was reluctant to interfere in any shape or form in any matter which may have incurred further delay. Beyond that, the honourable gentleman will acknowledge that the 1.4 was the recommendation made by Professor Pollard in his formula. That is the explanation. I accept my honourable friend 's very gentle rebuke. He has my assurance that, to the extent that it is possible for me to influence government legislation, certainly it will be my aim to seek to ensure that we secure a modification to the formula regarding updating. 
The last point to which I turn is that raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  It has been brought to my attention already that a number of people have been disadvantaged because remarriage has occurred and the claim of the relevant spouse to the DFRB pension or the DFRDB pension has subsided. I acknowledge that. The House may recall that when the Superannuation Bill went through this House recently provision was made to overcome that difficulty. I have issued instructions to my Department that an appropriate amendment be prepared to make a  mutatis mutandis  alteration to the legislation so that in the future members of the 2 Service funds and members of the Commonwealth Public Service will be placed in exactly comparable circumstances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. - 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill 1976 and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill 1976 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has only examined the possibility including costs, of conducting a ground reconnaissance of the Broken Hill-Boulia section of the proposed North-South Highway as an Army training exercise. The possibility of actually surveying the route has not been considered. 
The Minister for Transport has commissioned a study of the proposed road by the Bureau of Roads. It is expected that its report will be available in the near future. A decision on the reconnaissance exercise will be taken when the Bureau 's report has been considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Messrs Hay, Jolly and Buckley and Misses Adler and Gazzard. 
The planned departure time from Melbourne was 11.15 a.m. However, the actual times were- 
Departure Melbourne 1 1.40 a.m. Arrival Canberra 1.05 p.m. 
Commercial flights from Melbourne to Canberra on 29 March 1976 were scheduled to depart from Melbourne at- a.m.-8.30 and 9.00 p.m.-12. 1 5, 12.40, 4. 1 5, 4.20, 5.00, 7.20 and 7.25. 
I regret that I am unable to inform the honourable gentleman one way or the other. It is news to me. I will treat the question as being on notice and I will see that the honourable gentleman gets a reply to it this day. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House for a moment in relation to a question asked of me by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  relating to Lawley House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2) see following tables. 
This matter is to come before an arbitrator tomorrow for exploratory and informal talks. I readily acknowledge the facts which are both implicit and explicit in the honourable gentleman's question. This is an issue which has caused the Government and myself a great deal of anxiety. I excuse myself from saying anything at this stage until the arbitrator, who is now seised of the matter, has given his adjudication. It would be a tragedy for the parties involved if this matter could not be speedily resolved. 
For the information of honourable members I present details of the VIP flights or, as I prefer to call them, the special Royal Australian Air Force flights for the period 25 March 1975 to 8 February 1976. Details of the period subsequent to 8 February are being prepared and it will be my endeavour to see that they are tabled prior to the rising of the House for the winter recess. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
24 Cabernet Sauvignon 1971, 48 Sauvignon Blanc 1973, 24 Auslese Riesling 1975, 24 Cabernet Rose 1974, 24 Shiraz and Cabernet 1972, 60 Reserve Bin Tawny Port Miniature. 
Mildara Wines Ltd, Coonawarra, S.A. 
On U March 1976 by the Catering Officer, Base Squadron, Fairbairn. 
$341.98. 
By road, at no cost to the RAAF by J. Hazelgrove of Mildara Wines Ltd. 
The Finance Branch of the Regional Secretary, Department of Defence, Sydney, is the paying authority. 
No. 
Approximately 9-12 months, according to usage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, four. 
) Details are as follows- 
by leave- There has been a significant run-down in the defence capability of Australia in the last 3 years. This has not been the fault of the Service Chiefs or of the defence advisers to the country. The fault is to be properly laid at the feet of the Labor Government. Defence preparedness under Labor was given a low priority. Apathy to defence problems was a distinguishing feature of the Labor Administration. For the nation the consequences have been hazardous. Nothing in history encourages the view that a country can secure protection by being casual about its responsibilities. That lesson, Labor ignored. It is one this Government will respect. 
The consequences of Labor neglect have been at once widespread and grievous. Forward planning for new equipment did not receive the support it plainly needed. Training activities were heavily restricted. Financial restraint was no longer an expression of discipline. It became a symbol of lack of interest. The effects were not to be disguised. The operational capability of our Services was diminished. So was the morale of those who served. 
On assuming office the Government resolved that the state of affairs with respect to the nation's defences would not be tolerated. The Government is firmly determined to ensure that defence planning and preparedness are restored to their proper role. I am authorised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to say it is his expectation that he will, in the present session, make a statement to Parliament which sets out the Government's broad attitude to the world environment in which this country must shape its policies and its relations with other countries. Meanwhile, I may observe that the singular feature about contemporary Australia is that it is passing through a fundamental period of transition with respect to its defence obligations. It would be absurd to pretend that those obligations are declining- that there is a spreading of some imaginary benevolence. Our world is not one 'of peace and tranquility; it is exposed to a great array of aggressive forces; it is daily becoming more acquainted with the elements of violence and cruelty. We will share our responsibilities with our major allies. That is a proud attribute of nationhood. We accept, however, that we will take the prime responsibility for our own defence- the defence of Australia and its national interests. 
It is against that background that I inform the House that the Government has decided to embark on a defence program which will involve the expenditure in real terms of more than $ 12,000m in the next 5-year period and the acquisition will create additional financial commitments carried forward into the later 1980s. The Government reached its view that an expenditure of $ 12,000m is needed to give the country a credible defence capacity after receiving reports from its advisers, These reports detailed our present military capabilities, their limitations, and the extent to which they need to be developed or varied as we move from the 1970s into the 1980s. 
On the advice available to it, and corresponding with the long lead times for major equipment and construction, the Government has concluded that the greater portion of the sum to which I have referred should be spent in the last 3 years of the 5-year defence program. This is not to mean that growth of expenditure in the first 2 years will be insignificant, despite the need for restraint as part of the Government's overall financial strategy. On the contrary, there will be sizable increases in real terms in the amounts spent in these 2 years over those for the current year under Labor's budget. In particular, for the forthcoming year 1976-77 there will be an increase in real terms of between 5 per cent and 6 per cent over spending in 1975-76. In terms of the Budget next August this will mean a Budget provision for defence in the region of $300m above the expenditure approaching $ 1,900m expected to be incurred in 1975-76. 
There will be an immediate increase in the level of Service activities. This will allow increased fleet steaming time, including greater participation in exercises. Flying hours for all Services will be increased. Training activities in all Services will be stepped up permitting higher standards to be achieved and the development and practice of techniques of combat, command, control and logistic support. The Government's defence advisers are deeply involved in determining what priorities and what options should be included by the Government within the 5-year defence program with respect to equipment, manpower and facilities in the present state of technology and on the present outlook. 
Precise advice on types and quantities of equipment will be provided as the correct year of decision approaches, in the light of military needs and taking advantage of latest technological information and contractual opportunities. There will be no premature decisions. Modern defence involves very complex and expensive technologies. It is not enough to have a firm resolution to defend. There must exist the technical capacity to do so. Moreover, access to modern defence equipment involves very long lead times in securing that equipment. 
In the last 6 months I have approved a number of equipment acquisitions for the Australian Services including the purchase of the British Rapier surface-to-air guided missile system, the ordering of additional Leopard tanks from the Federal Republic of Germany, the selection of the landrover as the replacement vehicle for Army's light truck fleet, and air defence radar control and reporting facilities for the Royal Australian Air Force. In addition I expect to be able to announce very shortly the successful contractors to undertake project definition studies for the new class of patrol boat to be acquired for the Royal Australian Navy. These craft will supplement and in due course replace the existing Attack class. 
Arrangements are being made for Australian industry participation in all of these proposed acquisitions. It has long been accepted that the defence preparedness of Australia will include the availability of strong and competent industrial support for defence needs. However, it is some years since a complete study has been carried out of the capability of Australian industry to provide the industrial back-up required by the Australian Services now and in contingent circumstances. 
Consequently, I have requested that the Defence (Industrial) Committee report on the ability of Australian industry to provide industrial support for the Services with emphasis on the support of equipment, production of consumable and minor capital items and the ability to cope with an intensification and diversification of this activity. This important review was launched yesterday. The Defence (Industrial) Committee is chaired by  Sir Ian  McLennan and has as members senior industrialists and top level Service and civilian staff from my Department. For the purpose of this study the Defence (Industrial) Committee has been augmented for the period of the study by the appointment of a number of industrialists who are leaders in their field. I record the thanks of the Government and of the country for the work they have already done and are in prospect of doing. 
The Government intends that increased provision be made for the development of defence infrastructure, including the modernisation of naval dockyards, improvements in airfields and related support facilities, and in accommodation and educational and training facilities. The Government has already decided to accelerate the rate of construction of works at HMAS  Stirling,  Cockburn Sound, Western Australia, in order to facilitate commissioning of that establishment in 1978. 1 expect soon to announce what further works are necessary in order to increase the defence capability of this important naval base. 
I have stated the Government's intention to produce a White Paper on defence. That undertaking is repeated. The White Paper will be available for parliamentary debate and public discussion during the Budget session this year. By that time considered advice on the equipment, manpower and fixed defence facilities in Australia, contemplated for decision during the 5-year program period, will be ready for Government consideration and incorporation, as appropriate, in the White Paper. At a time when the nation faces serious economic difficulties, a decision to spend substantial sums of money on defence in the next 5 years does not make the resolution of those difficulties any easier. The Government freely acknowledges that fact. It accepts, however, that the first obligation which falls upon Government is to ensure the safety of the country and its people. I present the following paper: 
Defence-Ministerial Statement, 25 May 1976. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes; (b) Yes 
All S facepieces examined where considered unserviceable because of their extremely dirty condition. They therefore did not comply with Australian Standards 1715 and 17 16 issued in 1975 for Respiratory Protection Devices. 
The Materials Research Laboratories would not recommend any protective equipment which did not meet the specifications prescribed m these Standards. 
The degree of danger to users of these facepieces would depend upon the type and concentration of the fumigant involved and the length of exposure. 
The facepieces examined by Materials Research Laboratories  were  manufactured in 1964 and had not been previously examined by the Laboratories. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 

Both the Normalair and Siebe Gorman Vista facepieces meet the specifications prescribed in Australian Standards 1 7 1 5 and 1 7 1 6 and the choice of facepiece would be largely a personal one, depending on the facial characteristics of the wearer. 
I am indebted to the honourable gentleman for asking what I would describe as a very proper and apposite question, particularly following a recent speech delivered with some spirit by the honourable member for Oxley. If it had not been for the honourable gentleman's speech I would have sought to spare this House and the country the shame of the utter neglect of the last Labor Administration.  (Opposition members interjecting) 
It is all very fine but no amount of jeering will be able to disguise exactly what has taken place. The fact of the matter is that there was during the last 3 years what I would describe as a scandalous run down of spare parts and equipment by the Labor Government and the country deserves to be informed about that. This run down was over a very wide range of items. There are approximately 1.3 million items of equipment and spare parts used by the 3 Services. Of course it would be intelligible that from time to time there would be shortages but I found that there was a very wide range of shortages when the present Government took office and the person who was the Treasurer who clamped down on the 3 Services was the honourable member for Oxley. He was the one who said to Service after Service: 'No, we will put ceilings upon expenditure'. 
I can give the House some indication of the shortages. There were even shortages of shoes and hats fur felt. If the honourable member for Oxley had ever worn a hat fur felt he might have felt something about it. There was a shortage of tracks for armoured personnel carriers. There was even a shortage of tinned food. This is the record of the Labor Government. It is against that record that this Government proposes to take action and to bring back some credibility and some realism into the defence of this country.  (Opposition members interjecting) 
If honourable members opposite want more they will get it. 
It was my hope and expectation that I could make a statement to the House after question time. 
-Oh, be patient. Despite the best endeavours of my friend the Leader of the House, parliamentary time is not available to make a statement today but I am assured that time will be made available tomorrow. In the meantime, to try to quieten the impatience of my honourable friends opposite I can say that the cadet system in this country will be restored. 
If brains were water, the honourable gentleman could be declared a drought area. I have explained to the House already some of the difficulties associated with the restoration of the system; in particular, I have adverted to the difficulty associated with the Army cadets. All of the 320 Army cadet units in Australia were associated with schools. I sought to have what I would describe as an open cadet system, but there is one thing conspicuously wrong with it: It would not work. So I have had to embrace 2 systems. The new system will hold to the old system- that is to say, the Army cadet units will be associated with the schools- and there will be provision for open cadet units to be sponsored by interested parties and for those units to be associated with Army reserve units. I will give all the details of this matter tomorrow, and I would like to think that my honourable friend from South Australia will be in attendance to furnish his mind. 
I share the concern so plainly evident in the honourable member's question. That is one of the reasons why instructions were given several months ago for the level of surveillance activities in northern Australia, in particular off Queensland waters, to be stepped up. That has happened. I can assure my honourable friend that the only report I have received of a Taiwanese vessel being in propinquity to Gladstone was a fishing vessel which was sighted near Swain Reefs, which I understand is about 150 or 160 miles from Gladstone. There are regular patrols by Royal Australian Air Force aircraft operating from Townsville and there are 3 patrol boats operating out of Cairns. The honourable gentleman may rest assured that the Government views with anxiety reports concerning intruders into our waters. This is one of the reasons why the Government is taking the action it has taken to increase our surveillance capacity. 
-I can assure my honourable friend that the use of the Royal Australian Air Force VIP Flight is made according to rules which have been observed- I venture to say quite punctiliously- by me and by the Government since I have had the responsibility for it. If there would appear to be some excess I invite the honourable gentleman to consider the facts which I, from recollection, set out in the answer I gave to him. From time to time cases are put to me- may I say from both sides of the House- in which there are extenuating circumstances and I seek to recognise those circumstances in relation to the rules. I believe that last week I tabled the manifest dealing with RAAF special flights covering the period from October to January or February this year. It indicates that during that time considerable use of the Flight was made by my honourable friend's colleagues. 
by leave-Mr  Speaker,  honourable members will recall that the Government undertook during last year's election campaign to reintroduce schemes for the training of Army, Navy and Air cadets which our predecessors decided to disband. We also undertook to review the overall cadet training system. In January this year I announced that I had instructed the Department of Defence to draw up proposals for a new scheme. I also invited interested organisations and individuals to submit proposals. More than 1000 letters and submissions containing constructive suggestions were received and these have been considered along with the advice of my Service and civilian advisers. Account was also taken of the Report on the Army Cadet  Corps by the Committee  of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces- the Millar Committee report. 
I am now able to announce to the House details of a new scheme which each Service should have in operation by September this year. Three factors were important in shaping this new scheme. The first is my belief, and I am sure this is a belief shared by all honourable members, that we have an obligation to do all we can to encourage young people to develop the qualities of leadership, discipline, self-reliance and loyalty which the previous cadet training schemes fostered. Secondly, the Government wishes to see greater involvement of schools and the community generally in cadet training. The third consideration was one of cost. In a period when the Government must rigorously examine every facet of its expenditure the cost effectiveness of expenditure at this level on cadet training obviously demanded close scrutiny. This is particularly so at the present time when priority in defence expenditure must be given to equipment and the infrastructure essential to an adequate basis for expansion of our defence capability. 
The cadet schemes which existed until late 1975 cost upwards of $ 12m a year to administer. That was a heavy charge on the defence vote. The scheme which the Government has approved retains the essential virtues of cadet training while at the same time seeking to ensure the maximum efficiency within the resources available. It will encompass both school and community sponsored units. Features of future Commonwealth financial assistance are: Provisions of appropriate military uniforms; full defence force support for annual camps of up to 7 days for all cadets- at these camps rations, accommodation and equipment will be provided; reimbursement of up to an average of $10 per cadet to schools and sponsoring authorities for travel costs associated with annual camps, provision by the Navy, Army and Air Force of 141 regular servicemen and some 20 Department of Defence civilian staff to supervise and provide assistance in the activities of cadets; Commonwealth compensation cover; and payment of annual allowances to cadet instructors. 
Under the new scheme, the Navy, Army and Air cadets will retain their individual identity- a desire which was strongly expressed in the submissions of individuals and community groups and is shared by the Government. This is stressed in our decision to adopt a common aim for all 3 organisations, which has been formulated bearing in mind the fact that the organisations will be funded from the defence vote, and that the public submissions received strongly favoured the maintenance of a military flavour in cadet activity. The aim is to be as follows: 
The common aim of the Australian Services' cadet schemes is, by predominantly voluntary effort, better to equip young people for community life by fostering initiative, leadership, discipline and loyalty through training programs also designed to stimulate an interest in a particular arm of the Defence Force. 
Besides introducing a common aim the Government has also decided that there should be a greater degree of commonality among the 3 Services' cadet schemes particularly in the nature of the Commonwealth assistance. The Army Cadet Corps will retain the school as the basis on which cadet units will be formed. The main change from the previous scheme will be that under the new scheme schools will have greater authority and responsibility in the running of their own units. This  desideratum  has been expressed in many of the submissions which I have received. Initially there will be a ceiling of 32 000 on the number of Army cadets and cadet-officer instructors which is roughly the same number as under the previous scheme. 
All schools which had Army cadet units prior to the previous Government's decision to disband them will be invited to re-establish their units, if they so desire; although in the case of State schools they first must obtain the approval of the State government. Second priority will be given to schools which did not previously have cadet units, but which now wish to form a unit. At a later date consideration will be given to the formation of 'open units' not attached to any school, but drawing membership from the general community. These open units would be located with Army Reserve depots. Schools which wish to form units must have a minimum of 70 boys willing to join. This figure is considered to be a cost-effective minimum size for a cadet unit. Under the previous scheme a number of schools had units with numbers below this minimum. These will be given the opportunity of increasing these numbers. 
-I am coming to that point. Units will be based on a company and platoon organisation. Each unit will be under the command of an officer selected by the school, and other officers of cadets will assist at a ratio of one for each 20 boys. Schools will be responsible for the administration and training of their own units, including the issue and care of uniforms and other equipment provided by the Army. 
Because of safety and security problems modern rifles will be issued to cadets only during annual camps where appropriate Regular Army personnel and conditions will be available to ensure the necessary supervision and control. However, modified weapons may be issued to schools providing their security arrangements are adequate. In these circumstances it will be the responsibility of the school to provide the approved armouries. As a result of the greater independence given to schools in this new scheme, a considerable reduction of Regular Army support will be possible. This will permit a major scaling down of the costly former cadet brigade/battalion headquarters structure. Nonetheless, Regular Army support will continue. About 100 officers and other ranks will provide guidance and administrative support to school units, and ensure that uniformly high standards are maintained. In addition part time service of regular servicemen will be engaged in such things as stores issue and maintenance. 
The new Air Training Corps structure will consist of over 100 flights totalling some 6000 cadets and cadet/officer instructors, which is approximately equivalent to its previous strength. About 30 regular officers and airmen will continue to support this new structure- a considerable decrease from the 115 previously. As with the Army the ATC essentially will be responsible for its own administration and the role of regular Royal Australian Air Force personnel will be that of guidance, support and overall supervision of standards. Air cadets will receive the same training as before, providing them with a range of practical skills associated with flyingnavigation, meteorology, air traffic control. 
The naval reserve cadets system will continue. A ceiling of 4000 cadets, which is an increase of about 1500, will enable the Navy to maintain a similar proportion of cadets, compared to Service strength, as the Air Force. The total number of permanent naval force personnel supporting naval cadet units will remain at eleven as under the previous scheme. Naval cadets will also receive the same training as before which includes small boat safety, trips to sea on naval ships and navigation. 
Both Navy and Air Force cadets will receive weapons training under the same conditions as Army cadets. As with Army cadet units the Air Training Corps and naval reserve cadets will rely heavily on volunteer instructors, trained by the parent Service. This will provide a very rewarding part time activity for men who wish to become involved in an active and stimulating form of youth work which the Government believes is essential to the character building of Australian youth. Cadet officer/cadet instructors will be paid an annual allowance. The level of that allowance and the conditions under which it will be paid is a matter that will be examined by the established defence machinery for pay and conditions of service. 
Cadet service for girls will be given consideration after the new scheme is properly established, and then the Government would welcome submissions on this. 

 Mr Speaker, this new scheme retains the best features of the previous scheme, but will achieve them at a lower cost. At current prices the scheme will cost approximately $5.77m for Army cadets, $ 1 . 1 9m for the Air Training Corps and $640,000 for the naval reserve cadets. This is a substantial amount but represents a reduction of some $5.5m on the previous scheme at current prices. I believe the community support necessary to make this scheme a success will be forthcoming, and once again cadet training will make a worthwhile contribution to the physical and mental development of Australia's young people. I present the following paper 
Cadet Training Schemes-Ministerial Statement, 27 May 1976. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 28 April 1976 I tabled in this House the report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board together with a report to the Board by the Australian Government Actuary on the assets and liabilities of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund as at 30 September 1972 -the effective date of the transfer of the Fund to the Commonwealth. The investigation covered the period from 1 July 1964 to 30 September 1972. It revealed excess or surplus assets at book value of $6.337m which was attributable to those who were pensioners during that period. I emphasise that the investigation relating to former DFRB contributors who transferred to the new Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme is not yet complete. I am awaiting a further report from the Board. I explained at the time that the surplus amount would be distributed in cash to the eligible persons concerned and that the amounts to be allocated would be accumulated from 1 October 1972 using a factor based on the earning rate of the DFRB Fund at 30 June 1972. The calculations will be equivalent to the accumulation of the surplus assets at compound interest and will produce a final return to pensioners of an amount approximating $8m. This Bill gives effect to those decisions. 
It provides also for the development of a basis of allocation which ensures that each person concerned will receive a fair and reasonable share of the amount to be distributed. The allocation arrangements will be determined by myself after receiving advice from the Actuary. In conclusion I should mention that the  Chairman  of the DFRB Board has informed me that every attempt will be made to have all the formalities completed in time for the payments to be made before the end of the year. Indeed, I would express the hope that that time in fact will be cut. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The answer is yes. I think it should be acknowledged immediately that there is a totality with respect to all Soviet shipping. To seek to isolate oceanographic shipping, for example, from merchant shipping, from naval ships simpliciter, is a quite wrong approach. If there is one clear fact to be drawn from all Soviet maritime activity it is simply this: It is directed towards spreading Soviet influence throughout the world. I invite my honourable friend to concede that that is precisely the case. Soviet maritime activity in the Indian Ocean, despite some of the cynics in bur community, is of a very significant proportion. 
Pursuant to section 10A(2) of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1 953- 1 965 I present the annual report of the RAAF Verterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's reply to question No. 526  (Hansard,  26 May 1976, page 2525). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but despite the present economic and employment climate, it has not been easy to encourage suitable people to accept Service employment as an alternative to the ess demanding and disciplined life styles of civilian occupations. 
No unusual recruiting campaign has been launched this year. Each financial year we must seek to replace those leaving our Defence Force with high quality young men and women to maintain it at the level set by the Government. To do this requires year round recruiting endeavours which are supported by advertising in the media. For the 1975-76 financial year $2,084,630 was provided in estimates and in spite of significantly increased costs this is not being exceeded. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In addition, I have received representations from the Royal Aero Club of South Australia Inc., Parafield. The present situation is that formal negotiations on the subject of air space in the Edinburgh area are about to take place between the Adelaide Region of the Department of Transport and the three Services. No additional restrictions on air space have yet been made. 
Yes. The reasons why Woomera was considered less suitable than Edinburgh include: 
Re-surfacing of runways and airfields pavements at Woomera would be required. 
Additional personnel would be needed. 
Remoteness from the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury. 
Overall cost of establishing the RAAF's Aircraft Research and Development Unit at Woomera would be 50 per cent higher than at Edinburgh. 
Annual operating costs would also be significantly higher. 
-In reply to the honourable gentleman I might observe that the question relates to a matter of policy. Nevertheless I take leave in the first place to give him a categorical assurance as to the future of the staff of the Duntroon military college. I inform the honourable gentleman that studies are currently under way relating to what one may describe as a tri-service academy. Those studies have not yet been completed. When they are completed the Government will consider any proposal that may result from them. If and when a decision is taken, that decision will of course be placed before this House for its consideration and scrutiny. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Six persons are employed full-time in a civil staff recruiting capacity by the Department and annual charge against Departmental salary votes is of the order of $60,000. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
The assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service is fairly frequently sought in regard to trades and semi-skilled industrial type staff. No payment is made for this service. 
For the information of honourable members I present details of special Royal Australian Air Force flights for the period 9 February 1976 to 31 May .1976. Due to the limited number of copies available, reference copies of this document have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure? Before the debate is resumed on this order of the day I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this motion and those motions contained in Order of the day No. 6, Destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy and future arrangements at Woomera, South Australia, and Order of the Day No. 7, Cadet Training Schemes. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 3 motions to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Long distance radio communications were lost while HMAS  Kimbla  was on passage to New Zealand on 1 7 March 1976 but after temporary repairs were effected, long distance communications were regained on the morning of 1 8 March. 
In accordance with established procedures an RAAF aircraft was diverted to make contact with HMAS  Kimbla  on the afternoon of 17 March, and messages were successfully exchanged between the two units. The aircraft then returned to its previous task. No escort of the ship occurred. An aerial was transferred to HMAS  Kimbla  from HMAS  Supply,  but no cannibalisation of equipment took place. Replacement of one aerial could not be effected due to the ban on crane movements resulting from the Painters and Dockers strike. The delay of some days referred to in the question was in fact confined to just over one day while repair work was carried out. 
Regular preventative maintenance is carried out and there is no question of lowering maintenance standards such that safety and efficiency are jeopardised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has no proposal under consideration to store nuclear weapons at Garden Island or elsewhere in Australia. No such proposal has been put to the Government in any form. 
None of the nuclear powers reveals whether its ships or aircraft are carrying nuclear weapons at a particular time. 
As I have said on a number of occasions, visits by the ships of friendly navies, including nuclear powered warships, would be welcome at HMAS  Stirling  provided that adequate control and safety precautions were taken. 
The risk of an accidental release of radio-active material is extremely slight. Under the normal operating conditions there is no release of nuclear waste into the environment at all. Deliberate release would not be permitted under conditions of entry to Australian ports. 
In the improbable event of an accidental release of radio-active material, there would be an insignificant effect on the land or maritime environments. Because of the extremely slight risk of such an accident, hazard to health is only a very remote possibility. This assessment is backed by the substantial history of accident-free operations by U.S. and British nuclear-powered warships for many years. 
No such visits will be permitted to any Australian poruntil the Government decides the conditions under which visits can be resumed. 
See (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs has announced that the Government's offer to provide four RAAF helicopters, together with crew and maintenance staff, to assist the United Nations Emergency Force in its peacekeeping operations in the Middle East has been accepted by the U.N. The offer is in response to a request by the Secretary-General earlier this year. 
Discussions have now begun with the United Nations Secretariat on when the contingent will join the UNEF. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
5911.000. 
) No. Jindalee is in the exploratory stage and costs have been kept down by borrowing special electronic equipment from the United States. If early tests are successful, participation by industry in later stages will be encouraged. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I have received representations from residents of the Cottesloe-Swanbourne area concerning the Western Australian Government's proposal to develop the West Coast Highway. 
The Western Australian Government Environment Protection Authority's consultants have recently completed a ten-month study on four options for developing the West Coast Highway in the Cottesloe-Swanbourne area. Two of the options considered by the consultants were: 
Construction of a road through Army occupied land; and 
widening of Servetus Street by acquisition and demolition of existing houses on one side of the street. 
The Western Australian Government has not made an approach seeking release of Army-occupied land for either construction of the proposed highway or for relocation of the people affected by the land acquisition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information provided below is in respect of the period since my statement of 18 February 1976 on future arrangements at Woomera; 
1 ) No positions have been declared redundant 
) Staff reductions have amounted to 62 people. 
3 ) 1 3 of the 62 people who have left Woomera have been placed in government employment elsewhere; the remaining 49 have resigned. 
No employees have been dismissed. 
There has been an overall reduction of 2 people in the staffs of contractors supporting Weapons Research Establishment operations at Woomera. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Services Canteens Organisation will continue to operate the Community Store at Woomera for the foreseeable future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b)- See details of special Royal Australian Air Force flights tabled in Parliament on 18 May 1976 and 4 June 1976. 
The purpose of the flight in each case was within the guidelines laid down in the Rules for the use of RAAF VIP Aircraft for VIP and VIP Party Travel tabled in Parliament on 1 March 1973. 
The provision of details of scheduled commercial flights is not my responsibility. This information should be available from the commercial airlines. 
The rules governing the use of VIP aircraft make it quite clear that a request for VIP aircraft travel is not to be made to an approving authority if alternative forms of transport are available. I can assure the honourable member that, in considering whether approval for VIP travel should be given, I also take into consideration the scheduled times of commercial flights. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following tables present the statistical information required (tables are attached). 
Naval Reserve and Air Training Corps Cadets 
Twenty-one of the 24 schools which had either Naval Reserve or Air Training Corps units, would have met the minimum size criterion of 30 per unit, which is laid down for the new scheme. These units are readily identifiable from the statistical tables provided. 
There has been no significant change involved in the other criteria of the new scheme, and it is considered that units would have met these criteria. 
It should be noted that none of the schools which had either Naval Reserve or Air Training Corps units as at July 1 975, have disbanded their units. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Details of flying training exercises by No. 34 Squadron, RAAF, are shown on the following table: 
Note 1. Airfield proving flights may be for either crew conversion or for continuation training. 
Note 2. As planning is a continuous process, it is not practicable to provide a specific planning date for each flight 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In addition to the bull and its crate, the aircraft transported the following cargo: 
Australia to Hong Kong- 1 Falcon station wagon, 1 safe hand bag, 2 bags of diplomatic mail. 
Australia to Peking- Animal fodder, sawdust and water, 8 jerry cans, 2 loading pallets, 92 cartons of wines and mineral waters, 13 cases of photo-copying equipment, 19 cartons of swimming pool equipment, 10 cases of prints, maps and tapestry. 
Hong Kong to Peking- 2 dining table extensions, 10 book cases, 2 newspaper racks, 27 cartons of liquor, 18 cartons of foodstuffs, 6 cartons of stationery. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Insofar as information is available, it is included below. 
United States of America 
The only permanent U.S. naval presence in the Indian Ocean is the Middle East Force (MIDEASTFOR), based at Bahrain since 1948 and consisting of a command ship and two destroyers. Since 1973 this Force has been supplemented for about SO per cent of the time by carrier or guided-missile cruiser task groups ranging from two to five ships, on temporary deployment from the Seventh Fleet in the Pacific Typical deployments have ranged from a cruiser accompanied by two frigates and an oiler, to an aircraft carrier accompanied by three frigates. The largest single deployment was from October to early December 1973, when a Seventh Fleet task group comprising an aircraft carrier, seven destroyers and frigates and a support ship, was on station in the Indian Ocean. 
Details of U.S. Naval deployments for 1973- 1975 and of a total ship days 1 97 1- 1 975 are shown in the Tables below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Full-time Personnel Involved in Full-time and Parttime Activities with Cadets 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the following table. 
These expenditures are pan of the Defence budget. 
The policy regarding recovery of costs is that stores which are in stock and required to save life and property in an emergency are made available through appropriate channels generally to support State/Local Government authorities and normally no charge is made at this time. After the emergency ceases some items are returned or replaced by the receiving authority e.g. New South Wales replaces sandbags issued on a one for one basis. Where stores cannot be recovered charges are raised against the receiving organisation but in some cases charges are waived. 
My attention has been drawn to the editorial in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  and I would observe that it is a very great pity that a newspaper which has had such a long and distinguished interest in the defence of this country should be so grossly in error. I would like to believe that the error was genuinely based and not related to anything splenetic, but the figures which are cited by the leader writer are not merely marginally false; they are utterly false. I say to the Leader of the Opposition: 'I am putting on my glasses. I assure you that I am reading. ' The leader writer observed: 
The Navy's equipment budget has been increased to almost $90m mainly for the purchase of patrol frigates, an oceanographic ship and Oberon submarines. 
The fact is that the Navy's equipment budget for this year is $160m. The editorial is almost half correct. The  Herald went  on: 
The Army's allocation was increased to $45m. 
The fact is that the Army's allocation is $ 108m. Finally it said: 
The Air Force got almost $76m, mainly for replacement Hercules aircraft and Orion long-range maritime patrol aircraft 
The actual total for the year is $ 144m. The total for equipment proposed in the Budget for this year is $484m. The total offered by the Herald is $2 1 1 m. The leader writer went on to observe: 
Virtually all of this list represents the commitments of the former Government. 
The 2 Oberons were approved of in March 1970. The former Whitlam Government had not then tasted the fruits of office. The oceanographic ship was approved in 1970. The Nomad aircraft were approved in May 1 972. The first trials with the Leopard tank were approved in September 197 1 which, I believe, was during the term of office of my distinguished friend the honourable member for Kennedy. The Orion aircraft met with their first approval in March 1971 and the last Labor Government deferred that approval until 1973-74. The Rapier missile was first approved and developed in the early 1 960s. 
Yes, I am reading. I am reading the honourable gentleman and I do not enjoy it in the least. I would like to say by way of conclusion that I do not object in the least to criticism regarding the Department of Defence. Indeed, it is my fond hope that this country will eventually reach that mature state where there will be a genuine bipartisan approach to defence problems but to use figures in such a mischievous way or- to put it in a generous and charitable fashion- to use them in an erroneous way, does not contribute towards that end. 
I saw this report attributed to my friend the honourable member for Oxley and it filled me with a sense of dismay. To the best of my recollection I have never uttered a statement vaguely akin to the statement attributed to me by the honourable member for Oxley. I hope that on reflection, the honourable member will make proper amends. 
I claim to have been misrepresented, and truth claims to have been misrepresented. 
-Yes. I wish to quote the text of the answer I gave to a question asked of me and I will then leave the matter to the judgment of the House. The question was asked: 

 Mr Killen, do you think the Soviet military build-up, as you see it, poses a military threat to Australia? 
I answered: 
Well, frankly I do. 
There the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  paused and did not quote the rest of the sentence. The rest of the reply was: 
I don't think that it could be regarded as a boisterous display of benevolence. 
Ah! I leave it to the honourable gentleman. If that is the measure of his intellectual integrity he deserves to leave this place. He will keep. 
Yes. I would not waste any more time on him. 
I can assure my honourable friend that neither by practice nor inclination do I tolerate red tape. The tender for these work boats must be by public tender, and I cannot give him an undertaking that any one company will receive the tender. I will make such inquiries as are appropriate of my colleague the Treasurer and see that the honourable gentleman receives information on the question. 
In reply to the honourable gentleman all I can say, by way of brevity, is that the conclusion he has drawn is based on completely false premises. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
One could simply recite of this Bill that it is a Bill to amend the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act of 1953 and leave the matter there, but it would seem to me to do our history and to do people who served in this Parliament an immense disservice if such a perfunctory observation were made of what is a very minor amending Bill and a very interesting one. I suppose that one could say that the principal purpose of the Bill is to omit from the principal Act in the definition of an eligible person the word 'male ' and to add the following paragraph: a former member of the Royal Australian Air Force Nursing Service or of the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force - and leave the matter at that. But I hope that it will not be to the distress of the House if I do not do that. 
This Bill is probably one of the most unique that the Parliament has considered, not that it is unique in the sense that at long last we recognise the fact that the women who served in the armed Services now have access to the advantages offered by a trust fund, although it has taken a long time for us mere males to emancipate ourselves in that sense. In all probability this Bill affords an opportunity to reflect a little on the past and, as I said in my opening, to reflect a little on some of the men who served in this Parliament. The Bill has its origin as far back as the 14th century. It may seem strange to talk about the Royal Australian Air Force and to talk about the 14th century in the same voice but in point of fact that is the case. This trust fund was a fund which was developed from prize money. Prize money had its origin in the capture of ships during times of war, in the sale of ships and in the sale of what was carried in the ships. One of our oldest courts- old in terms of our Anglo Saxon world- was the Prize Court which drew its jurisdiction from the Admiralty Court. 
At the end of World War II there was a considerable amount of prize money to be distributed. In 1 945 the United Kingdom said to the then dominions that a share of that prize money would be available for those who had served in the navies and in the air forces. Not surprisingly, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer- as all chancellors of the exchequer are inclined to do- was looking for money and he said that this would be the last distribution of prize money ever to be made, but in the meantime two-thirds of it would be made available to the navies and air forces of the Empire and Commonwealth, and one-third would go to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. As a consequence, 249,000 was given to the Royal Australian Navy by way of prize money to be distributed among the members who had served with that force, and 229,000 was given to the Royal Australian Air Force for distribution. 
The question of the distribution of that money was put before the consideration of the then Government in 1950, and was placed in the hands of a very distinguished former and late member of this Parliament,  Sir Thomas  White, who was a former member for Balaclava. It is interesting to reflect on the fact that  Sir Thomas  White as a young captain had been shot down and was a prisoner of war of the Turks. He wrote a book of his experiences called  Guests of the Unspeakable,  which provided an interesting touch to history. The last chapter in that book is called  The Home Trail,  and one of the last sentences in that book is to this effect: We escaped that we may serve again. I hope that his family would not think it an impertinence on my part to say that that could well have been a motto for that very distinguished airman and parliamentarian, because he did serve again. When he was Minister for Air in 1 950 he suggested that the prize money allocated to the Royal Australian Air Force should be used for the construction of a residence or residences for former members of the Royal Australian Air Force who found themselves in necessitous circumstances. That proposal was taken up 3 years later by the present right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who was then Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air. He faced the difficulty that there would be little virtue served in distributing the money to the individual members of the RAAF- the 183 000 members who had served- and he decided that it would be far better to respond to the suggestion made by  Sir Thomas  White that residences be constructed. So that was the purpose of the Bill introduced in 1953. 
It is further interesting to go back and note those who spoke in the debate. They were 5 men who had a lifelong interest in the welfare of exservicemen. The right honourable member for Lowe was followed in the debate by the former member for Lalor,  Mr Reg  Pollard, with whom many of us have had the pleasure of sitting in this House. Then spoke  Mr Charles  William Jackson Falkinder, who was a very distinguished airman and a personal friend of many of us. Then spoke the late  Mr Drakeford,  then the late Air ViceMarshal Bostock, and finally  Sir Keith  Wilson, the then member for Sturt. One of the suggestions which all the speakers made was that the widows and children of those who served should also have the opportunity to take advantage of the funds made available under the Bill, or the Act as it now is. So the scheme was put under way, and today we are now seeing that scheme take on the character which was suggested many years ago by those who spoke in the debate on the original Bill. 
I would like to think that honourable gentlemen may see in this Bill an opportunity to recall those who served, with very great distinction, on both sides of this Parliament. This Bill will enable former members of the Women's Auxiliary Air Force and former members of the Royal Australian Nursing Service who are in necessitous circumstances to receive assistance pursuant to the provisions of the Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) Not applicable. 
Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security: Reports (Question No. 902) 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Chifley is at some disadvantage because the premise upon which his question is based is simply not accurate. 
The transcript, my dear chap- I am not in the habit of using written speeches, as the honourable gentleman should well know. The honourable member for Hindmarsh is trying to interject. If he contains himself I know the truth will eventually reach him. What I said was that in the past Australia had always fought alongside a large provincial power. No such guarantee could be given about the future. As a consequence, Australia must seek ways of developing a greater measure of self-reliance. For myself, I would have thought it a superbly unexceptionable remark. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  turns towards to me to listen. May I say to him that what he put to me at question time this morning was completely without substance. He holds up a transcript of an Australian Broadcasting Commission news bulletin. He now holds out the ABC to command a splendid sense of infallibility. If I may venture a view to the honourable gentleman, I invite him to ask that  Alvin Purple  continue. What was said of me on the ABC was utterly incorrect. I am not given to criticising the working journalists, but most of the journalists in this Parliament cannot write shorthand. The honourable member for Chifley has known me for a long time. I have no acerbity of language to level against him. I have no pressure of political view to offer against him. But he has this genuine interest in this matter. I would seek to correct it. I did not say that this country would ever be on its own. I repeat that. I did not say that this country would be on its own. What I did say was that this country - 
I am glad that the son of the Leader of the Opposition has some interest in language. After all, that is what his discipline has been about. What I did say was that in years gone past this country was accompanied by a large provincial power. Does any honourable member on the other side have difficulty about that? Then I come to the question asked by my friend the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  Chifley is a very great name in this Parliament, and the honourable member for Chifley and I have exchanged insults over the years. He asked me whether or not I had said that we would fight on our own, and I said 'No'. In years gone by- and I ask my honourable friend to agree with me on this- we had not fought on our own, we had a large provincial power with us. There is nothing wrong with that, is there? I am sure my honourable friend would not disagree with me. I went on to say at question time today, not, I hope, in any sense by way of meritricious antagonism, that as far as the future was concerned we could imagine ourselves on our own. I say to the honourable member for 
Chifley and to all of his honourable colleagues that if they want to talk to me about this matter I will be only too delighted so to do. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a very short Bill and its purpose may be stated shortly. When in May this year I announced the Government's decision to restore Service cadets throughout Australia I indicated, contemporaneously with that announcement, that the Government would be examining the Air Force Act to ensure that what was a suspected blemish regarding the regulation power in that Act was removed. An examination of the Act has confirmed that the power to make regulations pursuant to the Act was very, very dubious indeed. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide a new section 8 which removes all doubt relating to that matter. The Air Training Corps, as you will vividly recall  Mr Deputy Speaker,  was established in 1941. 1 suppose it is one of those quirks of history that for some 35 years an organisation existed and in terms of sharp statutory validity people may question the legitimacy of it, but it has been a corps which has contributed enormously to the cultivation of a sentiment favourable to the Royal Australian Air Force. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the establishment of the Joint Defence Space Research Facility was announced in 1966, a number of public statements have been made by Ministers of different Governments. The essential facts which have been made public are: 
The Facility carries out a variety of research projects, the results of which are available to both countries. 
Space research is concerned with satellites. 
The nature of the research is classified. 
Speculation about its purpose will neither be confirmed nor denied. 
The agreement is for ten years from 9 December 1966 and thereafter until terminated on twelve months' notice by either party. 
I did see a statement attributed to the honourable member for Oxley along the lines suggested by the honourable member for Lilley. The statement contained so many inaccuracies and so many imbecilities that when I first read it I was deeply convinced that it was a forgery; but I made inquiries, as would seem proper, and I was forced to conclude that the statement was indeed original and that it had been prepared by the honourable member for Oxley. I was then further obliged to conclude that he must have been in a very wild, chimerical mood when he prepared the statement. But in my charity I brought to mind the facts that, as Treasurer, he said that we would have a Budget deficit of $2,798m and that if his Government had remained in office the Budget deficit would have been $5,000m. Whatever one may say about that achievement, it was a magnificent display of economic erraticism. The expenditure on defence by the previous Government was of the order of 2.7 per cent of gross domestic product. Under this Government it will be of the order of 2.9 per cent. The honourable member for Oxley plainly is determined to take his economic erraticism to a hitherto unexplored height. 
-The Auditor-General's report reached my table only last night. I am sure the honourable member will understand that I have not had an opportunity to look at it. 
I would much rather have it under my pillow than you. I am sure that the honourable gentleman would clearly understand that in that time I have not had an opportunity to examine it, as indeed I should. It would be incorrect to charge the present Department of Defence with any maladministration in relation to what is in the Auditor-General's report because at that time there were separate Service departments. Beyond that stage I would not think it proper for me to comment, but may I say this to my honourable member: I will treat the question as being on notice and I will ensure that he gets an answer as soon as possible. 
I am under an obligation to you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  for your guidance. I would regard it as a very cruel fate indeed to be responsible for statements made by members of the Opposition. I did read that statement last evening. I thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition must have been in an uncommonly exuberant mood because I remind him and the House that the patrol boats of which he spoke were authorised to be given to Indonesia by the previous Labour Administration. On that occasion the  Deputy  Leader was a member of the Cabinet, so I do not suppose he sat in the Cabinet with some doleful Trappist vow weighing over him. If he had held strong views on the matter, I imagine he would have stated them. The present Leader of the Opposition was at the time Prime Minister. He does not seem to me to be sopping wet with anxiety on the issue. And who was Treasurer at the time? He was none other than my very dear friend, the honourable member for Oxley. He provided them with the money. 
What are the patrol boats? They would have the offensive capacity of a Manly ferry in dry dock. I have a statement from my research, albeit hurried research, which was put out by an old friend of us all, now the Australian Ambassador to Sweden, at the time when he was the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence. I refer to the Honourable L. H. Barnard. In his statement he said: 
Under the project, - 
That is the defence aid project - 
Australia will provide Indonesia with 2 Attack class patrol boats, two other patrol boats of the same or a similar type, six 5 1-foot patrol boats and at least 4 Nomad aircraft, - 
You are under heavy pressure; we know that. You do not know whether your accounting is right or your defence is wrong. To me it is fascinating: Here is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition complaining about an action taken some years ago- an action, speaking for myself, that is absolutely innocent. 
I know that it is some time since my honourable and learned friend has done any practice at the Bar, but I take leave to remind him that a good interrogatory should always be carefully drawn. The interrogatories he has put to me have been put with characteristic imprecision.  His Deputy  Leader, who I think follows him out of desperation, was referring specifically to six 51 -foot boats that have- I repeat it- the offensive capacity of a Manly ferry in dry dock. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was not referring to the Attack class boats. He was referring to the six 51 -foot boats. If the honourable gentleman were to discipline his mind again, go back to the law and bring in  Mr Hawke,  Australian politics would be cheered up. 
(Moreton-Minister for Defence)- For the information of honourable members I present details of special Royal Australian Air Force flights for the period 1 June 1976 to 31 August 1976 together with supplementary details for the period 26 July 1975 to 17 August 1975. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this document have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office and in the Parliamentary Library. 
Yes, I am aware of the decision made by the National Congress of the RSL. This country is a signatory to the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. As a consequence of that, clear obligations flow. The Government proposes to respect those obligations immaculately. As to the third question put by the honourable member, I congratulate him on his sense of hysteria. 
I excuse myself from offering any view as to the philosophic attitude of Indonesia in terms of the world community. The answer to the specific question put to me is no. 
This is the 21st year I have spent in this place. During that time I have seen an infinite variety of skills wielded. I would like my honourable friend to know that I have not remained untutored by the experience. If I decided to stage a coup in Australia I would seek to make the Entebbe airport raid appear as an exercise in clumsiness. 
I am under heavy obligation to my honourable and gallant friend for his question. He served with distinction with the Senior Service in the last war. I trust I will not be accused of prejudice arising from my own service association when I tell him that the Royal Australian Air Force is prepared to fly to heaven or to hell, wherever it may be beckoned. Speaking for myself, I am assured by the critics that I fly to the latter with a greater measure of assurance. 
The report is utterly false and I would only hope that the newspaper that published it would seek an early opportunity to correct what it said. This Government, and if I may say with respect the former Government, sought to encourage joint operations between and among the Services. I think it is absolutely essential that one force knows what another force is doing and that all forces can better understand the skills. When the Royal Australian Air Force detachment to Ismailia was organised arrangements were made for units of the Royal Australian Navy to participate in the exercise. That is the simple answer to the honourable member's question. Royal Australian Navy pilots will operate Iroquois helicopters from time to time. My honourable friend would be aware that the Iroquois is limited to a certain extent in terms of night operations and this distinguishes it from, say, the Wessex or the Sea King helicopters which are operated by the Royal Australian Navy. But the RAAF detachment has given an undertaking to operate for 24 hours a day. That undertaking is being fulfilled. The suggestion that pilots of the RAAF have refused to fly is utterly false. I trust, with respect to a very great Service, that the newspaper which published that report will seek to correct it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to paragraph 33 of 'Environmental Considerations of Visits of Nuclear Powered Warships to Australia' which was tabled in the House of Representatives by the Prime Minister on 4 June 1976. This reads as follows: 
I have no precise knowledge of the matter raised by the honourable member. I will give him an undertaking, however, that I will regard his question as being on notice and ensure that he gets a prompt reply. In the meantime may I invite him to reflect on the fact that all Government departments are under a clear obligation to ensure that they endeavour to get the best contractual arrangement consistent with Australian responsibility. 
With very great respect, if ever there were an exquisitely worded question for the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, I thought that was it. 
The honourable member for Oxley, who interjects, has many endearing qualities, but intelligence I fear is not one of them. I say to the honourable member for Batman in famous language: Be of good heart; you will be protected. 
The Prime Minister asks me why I would want to protect the honourable member. I put him in the fauna class. As to what happens with respect to monitoring intelligence activities I say nothing whatsoever by way of affirmation or by way of denial, but I say this: It is upon the wreckage of the government led by my honourable friend from Werriwa that we are endeavouring to rescue this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Allowances fraudulently obtained by RAAF personnel for which my Department has sought recovery amounted to $41,461.89. As at 30 September 1976 amounts totalling $40,385.98 have been recovered. 
On discovering the extent of these practices, my Department took prompt recovery action and remedial measures to prevent recurrence. 
Members submitting claims have been instructed to provide documentary evidence in the form of accommodation receipts and where possible to have their passport stamped at the border. In the absence of acceptable documentary evidence, a Statutory Declaration is required. 
I ask leave of the House to make a statement relating to the establishment of an Australian Defence Force Academy. 
I think it was  2  years ago in the rather luxurious days when I was allowed to do a little writing that I was asked to review the Labor Party Caucus minutes from the year  1901  to  1922-23. 1  was struck by the meticulous method with which those minutes were kept. I vividly recall reading one minute which went to this effect: 
The Caucus stood in a minute's silence as a mark or respect to  Senator - 
The senator's name was then mentioned-  whose son's death had just been reported from the western front. 
I mention that to illustrate one deep sense of personal commitment I have, that is, my determination to see that this country will eventually get to a bipartisan approach on defence matters. From my own experience, albeit limited, I have observed that in ultimate terms no political party has a monopoly of patriotism. I find that honourable gentlemen who oppose me politically, bitterly, fiercely and at times almost overwhelmingly, do have a feeling for this country which I do not think is distinguishable from my own feeling or from the feeling of my colleagues. 
Time has caught up with us and we are now beckoned by circumstances and by history to understand that we can no longer indulge ourselves in partisan argument- mean, petty bickering- about our defence obligation. We must seek to husband our resources. We must seek to ensure that the curious prejudices which did exist years ago between and among the Services are not given any assistance to survive. We must seek to ensure that every cent we spend upon defence is spent properly, frugally. We must also ensure that our community understands that the British influence, the old imperial concept, has finished and that we cannot live in the past. Nostalgia is of no help. The Britons, like the Roman legions of old, have gone back and the next generation of Britisher, I would expect, will have a far more pressing involvement and interest in a European existence than he will have in our existence. That is one of the great influences that has disappeared. The other factor, of course, is the fact that the United States of America, summoned by what one could only describe as an incredibly complex array of domestic problems has put all of its friends and allies on notice. It has said: 'Do a little more for yourselves '. So we must do j lust that. 
I found this debate a refreshment. I have listened to defence estimates debates in this place now for 2 1 years and I cannot recall a defence estimates debate so singularly free of what I would describe as a harshness, an acerbity of language. Some solid views have been put on both sides. A robust exchange of views hurts none of us as long as there is a sense of personal conviction behind those views. But today, for the first time, I will be so bold as to say that I have been led to the conclusion that given a little bit of goodwill, we can reach a bipartisan policy on defence matters. If we like to examine the speeches which have been made by honourable gentlemen on both sides of the chamber, I' think all honourable members will be encouraged to draw that conclusion. 
I turn now to the speech made by my friend, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He said that he would like to see a bipartisan defence policy. That was a most welcome expression of opinion as far as I was concerned. There is the goal. It does not matter what aspirations we may have, what accomplishments may lie at our feet, or whether we may say in terms of personal vanity: 'I did that' or 'my Government did this '. These matter not unless we command the integrity of this nation. We can only do so by ensuring that our defence capacity is such that that will follow. 
My friend from Oxley said: 'I should like to ask members of the Government: "Is there any threat? If there is no threat, why do we find ourselves getting so involved in defence matters?" ' I do not wish to punctuate what has been a most agreeable debate with any unpleasant note, but defence is not concerned with perceived threat. 
Defence is concerned with contingencies. Of the last 60 occasions on which the United Kingdom has found herself involved in armed conflict, on only 2 occasions have the engagements, the involvements, been perceived by the experts. So today our clear duty is to look to the contingencies, not in some irrational, wild fashion but to say: What can happen? What must we prepare for? Then we have to arrange our priorities in an objective order, I suppose throwing in a visceral feeling here and there, because after all many of us think a little better with our stomachs than we do with our minds. 
Here in Australia we are faced by dint of historial circumstance with an entirely new gathering of responsibility. I always look with puzzlement at people who say to me: 'Oh, Killen, why do you not model yourself defence-wise on the lines of the Swedes?' I just take leave to observe that this country spreads over 30 parallels of latitude. We range from alpine country to hot, tropical country, to desert country. We are now under an obligation to consider all the possibilities that may impinge upon this country in terms of possible contingencies. 
I say to my friend from Oxley and to all of my honourable friends opposite: Our great task in defence today is to maintain access to the skills which will enable us to deal with an infinite variety of contingencies. That is where the problem of contemporary defence takes its centre piece: How to maintain access to the skills. By way of simple explanation, I have heard the question asked: 'Why do you want Leopard tanks in Australia?' I offer no view on the merit of the tank. I only hope that this country will be spared the day when it will have a Minister for Defence who is so stupid that he will direct what sort of equipment should be bought for the Services. In dealing with the question of tanks, the fact is that if we do not have tanks we lose access to the skills of operating them. It could well be that in 5, 10 or 15 years time an enemy may land here and we would need to operate tanks against him.- It would be a sad day if people were to look back and say: 'Oh, those who sat in the Parliament in 1976 were not too keen on having tanks. We have not got access to the skills. It is sad'. We cannot whistle up the skills. 
It is precisely the same with aircraft. I shudder when I look at the cost of the tactical fighter force replacement. We are dealing not with a few million dollars, but with $8m to $ 10m. The chief of Air Staff informs me that if we really want to be extravagant we can pay up to $ 18m to $20m. As the honourable member for Kingsford Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Oxley have pointed out, quite rightly, if one tacks on the cost of ground facilities one is looking at an enormous sum of money. Having mentioned the fighter, may I just say that we must maintain access to the skill of how to operate it. We must also maintain access to the skill of how to maintain it. This calls for a constancy which is not to be denied. I assure my honourable friend from Oxley that there will be no rush decision about the tactical fighter force. As things stand at the moment, the generic decision will be made this year if all the evidence is available. If all the evidence is not there, the decision will not be made. I think that is a reasonable approach to take. Before I leave the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley, may I say that I am indebted to him for what he said about the ANZUS agreement. When I was in the United States recently I did not hear the ANZUS agreement mentioned. We spoke about friendship between the 2 countries. One of the striking features about friendship- it is the same with an international agreement of the character of the ANZUS agreement- is that you cannot get specific performance of it. So, in the words of Samuel Johnson, you are encouraged to say: Well, keep friendship in repair'. That is what we must do with the United States of America- seek to keep friendship in repair. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  was flattering to the point of almost making me feel uncomfortable in what he said. Without seeking to retaliate in kind, I believe it was a most thoughtful speech. He dealt with the problems of moving men, material and equipment around this country. I have just referred to the fact that 30 parallels of latitude cover this country and there is a coastline of 12 500 miles. One only has to mention those figures- they are sombre figures, they are striking characteristics -to realise that we face quite unique problems. Today we are looking with a fresh and keener eye at the problem of logistics in Australia. 
We all should be under a clear and heavy obligation to the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  for having reminded us of what could have happened in 1965 if a few colonels had been absent at the time of the PKI occurrence; when that  moment critical  was reached in Indonesia. That country could have gone upon quite daunting waves as far as this country was concerned. The honourable and gallant gentleman from North Sydney has done us a service in reminding us that it is the sheer, massive uncertainty that attends our everyday existence, which places us under such an obligation to consider defence problems in terms not of certainties but of uncertainties. It is the uncertainties, not the certainties, that are our constant companions. If defence planning was on the basis of a certainty, how much easier it would be. There would be no need for the anxieties, no need for the government, irrespective of its calibre or character, to go along to the taxpayer year after year and say: 'We want to ask you for these thousands of millions of dollars'. If we had the certainty, if we knew what was the definite threat, we could handle it. The honourable member for North Sydney has done the Parliament a very great service in saying that we must look at the uncertainty. I turn now to the comments of my friend the rumbustious honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He would not be offended by that; it is impossible to offend him. That quality is one which I admire and like enormously. He says that we have time. They are famous words. I would like to think that we had the luxury of time. Regrettably, we have not got the luxury of time on our side because we never know what can happen. Without seeking to be offensive or patronising, the honourable gentleman made a speech which I thought was quite out of character. Again it encouraged me towards the view that the goal of genuine bipartisanship in defence matters is very much within our reach. 
My friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  whom I know has not collapsed with excitement, made a typical characteristic speech. It was a thoughtful one. I do not know what other honourable members may say, but it had never occurred to me how perceptibly the great elegant city of Melbourne depends upon off-shore gas. I say that to my honourable friend. No other person has pointed that out to me. My honourable friend comes along and directs his own unique perceptive mind to the sort of problem that many of us are inclined to dismiss. I suspect that in the course of the next few years we will be obliged to look after an exclusive resources zone of 200 miles off the coast. If we find gas fields there we will not look after this zone with a few long-range maritime patrol aircraft. We have to rack our brains a little more. During the whole of his life the honourable member for Mackellar has not hesitated to put a noogoora burr under the saddle of any government. Once again he has put a noogoora burr under the saddle of this Government. I hope that my honourable friend will not seek to impeach me, but it had not occurred to me that Melbourne depended so perceptibly upon off-shore gas and that there was a need for that source to be protected. It could well be that in the future we will find comparable growing burdens elsewhere. I am indebted to the honourable gentleman for having brought that fact home to us. 
Far be it from me, having sat in this chamber with the honourable member for Mackellar for 2 1 years, even to seek to make the slightest dent on his magnificent hide by flattery, but what he said about sea lanes was so true. It must be remembered that 99 per cent of the goods that come into and go out of Australia are carried over sea. Some of my friends in the Opposition have said to me: 'Killen, why do you get so fussed up about the Indian Ocean?' I shall point out why. Thirty per cent of the oil that comes into this country comes from the Persian Gulf or Arabia. I suspect that something of the order of 90 per cent of Japan's entire fuel resources comes from the same area. For Western Europe it is something of the order of 70 per cent to 80 per cent. One has only to mention those statistics. They can in a very real sense be quite melancholy statistics. The honourable gentleman has again given us all a proper, timely jab in reminding us of the problems that face us with respect to the sea lanes. 
I hope that my friend the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  will not be upset by my giving him an Anglican dismissal in saying that I thought that what he had to say about the Fl 1 1 aircraft was not merely inaccurate by quite uncharitable. The honourable gentleman would do well to recall that the order for the Fl 1 1 aircraft was put in at a time when, as my friend the honourable member for North Sydney knows, we did not know what was to be the future of one of our near neighbours. We would like to think today that time, circumstance and effort on the part of people in the 2 countries have brought a better understanding to both. Nevertheless in those difficult years the defence planners were faced with the problem of what to buy. The Fill aircraft is quite one of the most remarkable aircraft that has ever been created. Its only deficiencyI observe. this on the basis of technical assessment- is that if does not have a stand-off missile capacity. That is something about which we may hear something when the White Paper has been prepared. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  in a very thoughtful speech, reminded us of the importance of the Army Reserve. Again I say that I hope that my honourable friend will await the presentation of the White Paper when we may have the advantage' of his considered views on what is offered in the White Paper on the Army Reserve. The pertinacious attention of the honourable member for St George to defence matters has, of course, made a very deep impression upon honourable members on both sides of the chamber. I am indebted to him not merely for the courteous way in which he draws my attention to defence matters but for the very forceful and direct way in which he does so. 
Finally, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  touched on the skills that I have dealt with. The honourable gentleman comes to this Parliament with very distinguished service with the Royal Australian Air Force. He has very properly pointed out to us that the skills of operating modern aircraft are not skills that one can acquire overnight. One spends years acquiring them and one spends years perfecting them. It is in that sense that I come back to where I started. Defence today is not concerned with perceptive or perceived threats. It is concerned with contingencies. I am sure that this debate has shown that the chamber has a better comprehension of that fact than it has ever had in the 2 1 years that I have had the honour of sitting in this Parliament. 
I apologise to the Parliament and to the country for an apparent display of dilatoriness on my part regarding the White Paper. It is my hope that it will be before the House during the week we come back after a break, which will be the week after next. But I am not without occupation; nor are my senior advisers. That White Paper has taken a great deal of preparation. Its presentation has been delayed for a variety of reasons about which I would not seek to weary the House. I hope that its presentation, irrespective of whether people are for it or against it, will encourage them to take one step forward along the path to securing a genuine, bipartisan policy on defence for this country. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I will not take the time of the House for very long. I appreciate my honourable friend's interest in Thailand. I take this opportunity to correct the impression which I may have given to the Leader of the Opposition a week or so ago. During the absence of the Prime Minister the honourable member for Kennedy asked me a question about the coup and whether one would be staged here. I did not treat the matter, I thought, in any mood of excessive levity. I treated the question as I thought I should because it seemed to me to have been put with a singular touch of facetiousness about it. The Leader of the Opposition, to my dismay, was sententious and offered me a public rebuke. I assure the honourable gentleman that the unrest in Thailand should be a matter of concern to all Australians. One of the great dangers I see facing this country is that it is in prospect of losing its corporate sense of humour and, beyond that, of also losing its capacity to get indignant. The honourable member for Kennedy has pointed to the fact that conditions in South East Asian countries are not as settled as we would like them to be. This points to the uncertainty into which all defence plans are thrust. We were reminded of this last evening during the Estimates debate by the honourable member for North Sydney. There are very few certitudes in this world and the political and social instability in South East Asia, wherever it is manifested, must remain a matter of concern to us all. 
-In reply to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question I warn him about rumours in Parliament House. I have never heard anything about a rumoured military tattoo in Victoria. The honourable gentleman s interest in the Tasmanian tattoo is well known, and since the honourable gentleman has been in this Parliament he has sought to press upon me and my colleagues with a rare sense of exuberance the need for the tattoo to be maintained. I inform the honourable gentleman that the Prime Minister has been in correspondence with the Premier of Tasmania regarding the proposed tattoo. My understanding is that  Her  Majesty the Queen will be in attendance at the tattoo and, consistent with Service exigencies, will do everything possible to ensure that the tattoo is a thundering success. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is assumed that the question relates to Service bands. Current Defence Force policy is that: 
Defence Force military and brass bands are to play God Save the Queen as the National Anthem on all Service occasions and on civil occasions unless the organisers request in lieu of the National Anthem one of the three musical salutes. 
Defence Force bands performing at civilian functions when requested by the organisers may play any one of the following as a musical salute: 
I have an immense respect for the sense of enterprise and resolution of the people of Taiwan, but I am bound to tell the honourable member that his question has what I describe as an arresting charm of novelty about it. I hope he will be encouraged if I say to him, in the language of the Church,  sursum corda-  lift up your hearts. I do not think it will happen. It may be that the honourable gentleman is reflecting on the charming Sunday afternoon at Botany Bay. It may not be inappropriate if I were to put that enervating afternoon in some measure of perspective. The scenario shortly is that I was at the Leichhardt Hotel in Rockhampton on a hot February evening in 1974 and the telephone rang. The man on the telephone said that he was from the BBC. Well, pay-back is not unknown in this country. Indeed I am succumbing to it myself. Honourable gentlemen may recall that on one occasion a former colleague in this House was beckoned at 2 or 3 o 'clock in the morning to write 600 words for the  Times  summing up the Australian political scene. I said: 'Hello, somebody is trying to pay back'. This is no impeachment to the sense of geography of the BBC, but for myself I would have had some doubt whether it knew where Rockhampton was, let alone the Leichhardt Hotel. 
So, when I was asked the question: What is the state of preparedness of the Australian armed forces? I said: 'We could not stop them landing at Botany Bay on a hot Sunday afternoon'. To my infinite disquiet the following day I saw in the newspapers, with a London dateline: 'Shadow Minister says Botany Bay cannot be defended'. Most of life's experiences have a moral. That experience has this moral for me and I pass it on to all honourable gentlemen: If the telephone rings and a person says he is from the BBC and his name is Picksworth, lapse into silence, behave like a Trappist monk and hang up. 
I have not had the advantage of receiving a detailed assessment from the Chief of Defence Force Staff and his colleagues on Kangaroo II. But I have had the opportunity of receiving what one may describe as interim assessments relating to some deficiencies which were detected during the operations and to some significant accomplishments which were apparent throughout the operation. One deficiency which was palpable to most people who saw the exercise was in the field of communications. One significant accomplishment was the fact that the professional skill of the Australian Services was of a very high order indeed. In many respects that skill was superior, one may say with a sense of pride, to the skills of those who were operating with us. I hope that during the course of the next few weeks the professional Service advisers to the Government will be able to prepare a detailed assessment of the exercise. Finally, the exercise showed how clearly and how well joint operations can be staged and controlled. I was most encouraged to find during a visit to joint headquarters that representatives of the 3 Services operated together in complete harmony and with not the slightest display of inter-Service rivalry. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a White Paper on Australian defence. I ask leave of the House to make a brief statement relating to that document. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Three Charles F. Adams Class guided missile destroyers (DDG) HMA Ships Brisbane, Hobart, and Perth. 
Two guided missile frigates of the Oliver Hazard Perry Class (FFG 's). 
The estimated cost for HMAS  Perth  and HMAS  Hobart  was US$90m including ammunition, depot and spare gear, and HMAS  Brisbane  (Ship only) US$37.6m bringing the total estimated cost for the three vessels to US$127.6m Final costs have not yet been determined but it is expected that the total project costs will not exceed US$ 107.7m i.e. $20m less than estimate. 
The estimated total project cost of the two guided missile frigates is $A330m (at January 1976 price levels). This figure includes the cost of ammunition, spares, helicopters, royalties, research and development and Australian industry participation. 
At the time of the DDG purchase no offset purchasing arrangements existed between the U.S. and Australian Governments. However, at the time of the FFG purchase, the U.S. and Australian Governments had concluded an arrangement, in which, inter alia, the U.S. Government commits itself to a combined U.S. industry and Government offset objective of no more than 25 per cent of the value of a major Australian order. 
The U.S. Government has also inserted a contractual clause in Requests for Quotations for Government Furnished Equipment to be supplied to the FFG program requiring the contractor to solicit Australian industry for the supply of components, material and equipment. 
Funds are available to assist industry with the 'setting up costs' of production capability for work associated with the FFG project and to assist with visits to the U.S.A. by representatives of Australian industry. The Department  of  Defence is also involved in briefing Australian industry on the program and aims for Australian participation in the project and in providing assistance to local firms in responding to Request for Quotations from U.S. shipyards and industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The information requested may be obtained from current editions of The Military Balance, Jane's Fighting Ships and Jane's All the World's Aircraft. There may be some discrepancies in terminology between that used in the question and the current terminology used in Jane's and therefore the honourable member may care to use the following ship types terminology: 
Aircraft carriers 
Helicopter cruisers 
Cruisers 
Destroyers 
Frigates 
Corvettes 
Submarines, and 
Amphibious vessels. 
Spelling of Word 'Program' (Question No. 1287) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a small procedural Bill which seeks to amend the Defence Act. It arises out of a suggestion made by the Chief of the Air Staff that the term 'air' within the Royal Australian Air Force organisation is confusing some people because they believe that it applies to civil aviation. The purpose of the Bill, m effect, is to put that position beyond all doubt. The term 'air' within the RAAF organisation will be replaced by the term 'air force'. Therefore, 'Air Office' will become 'Air Force Office' and 'Defence Instructions (Air)' issued by the Chief of Air Staff under the Defence Act will become 'Defence Instructions (Air Force) '. That is the thrust of the Bill. It seeks to amend section 9A of the Defence Act and also makes routine amendments to the Defence Act. I have already said to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who is at the table, that I do not think it is the sort of Bill which will cause tumult throughout the country. Nevertheless, it is a Bill which I commend to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested may be obtained from current editions of The Military Balance and Jane 's Fighting Ships. 
Sales Tax on Vehicle Safety Components  (Question No. 1265) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) see following table. 
I would not like to leave my right honourable friend with the impression that I am without occupation but, unlike him, I have read the article. The cover of the magazine and the article represent an unconscionable slur upon every person who wears the Queen's uniform and upon every person who serves with the Department of Defence. The author makes charges of the utmost gravity. I read the article not only as the Minister ultimately responsible to this Parliament but also, I trust, with the mild discipline of a lawyer. The author offered no evidence whatsoever to support any of his charges. But evidence, I apprehend, is not one of the continuing preoccupations of some journalists who are our associates, and evidence is not to be found in this article which in any way supports the grave charges he has made. I join with the Prime Minister in saying that, to the best of my knowledge, I am not aware of any classified defence material which has in any way been improperly disclosed since the advent of the first Fraser Government. 
Beyond that, I say this: The article makes a charge concerning officer resignations. I make 2 observations concerning that. The author alleges that the officer resignation rate is worsening, or he uses words to that effect. That is simply not true. I think it has been the common concern of all honourable members that the resignation rate has been too high. It has been impossible to find one single reason why the rate has been so disturbingly high, but if the author of the article would care to look at the White Paper on defence, which he seeks to disparage in a rather anaemic fashion, he will find the answer which repudiates his contention in most explicit terms. The only other reference I make is to the paragraph which commences with this felicitous term: 
The younger critics of the Russell Hill establishment say that for all the much vaunted integration of the bureaucratic superstructure and elimination of separate service departments, it remains dominated by dilettantish diplomatics and stodgy bureaucrats who still let the three services make all the real equipment and force structure decisions independently and on the basis of what suits them best. 
The author of the article does not seek to identify the critics. They remain anonymous; their qualifications are unstated. He seeks to redeem them by applying to them the adjective younger'. I say in conclusion that the author of this article has, over the years I have known him, written a great deal of mischievous and meretricious nonsense. He has now ascended his Everest. 
I think it was in 1933 that Western Australia went off on a frolic of its own and tried to secede from the Commonwealth- a spirit of endeavour which, I am informed, persists in other parts of the country today. If I may say so to the honourable gentleman, at first blush I see considerable merit in the proposal. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition could help me. I think during the war years there was an Air Force song with a touch of bawdiness about it called  Will Nellie Beat the Drum?  For myself, I do not know what all the implications may be, but I say to the honourable gentleman that I will undertake to examine the matter in the most meticulous and careful way. 
-This is the first question that I have been asked in this House concerning Major-General Stretton. As a consequence of that I would have thought it strange that the word 'inquiry' would be attributed to me. I have not used the word 'inquiry' in connection with Major-General Stretton at any time. The word inquiry' has not come from my lips. I hope there is no ambiguity about that. Yesterday my colleague, the Leader of the Government in the Senate, was asked a question on this matter. I will read to the House what the honourable senator said. He said: 
The Minister for Defence advises me that he has read the book - 
That is, Major-General Stretton 's book- and the official reports on the subject. It is the Minister's opinion that there are undeniable conflicts between the book and the reports. He has put to study all criticisms made by Major-General Stretton. 
I repeat that for the benefit of honourable members: 
He - 
Killen- has put to study all criticisms made by Major-General Stretton. 
The Minister went on to say: 
The Minister has no intention of seeking to hide anything arising out of the book or the reports. It is undeniable that there are lessons to be learned arising out of cyclone Tracy. The Minister himself, when in Opposition, raised several matters in a question in another place in relation to the procedures adopted in Darwin following the cyclone. 
I want to give to the House and to the country an example of the sort of conflicts I have in mind. I leave it to the quiet judgment of honourable gentlemen as to whether there are conflicts. Let me give 2 illustrations. On page 27 of the book Major-General Stretton says this: 
I had no ministerial authority. My own Minister,  Mr Barnard,  was incommunicado at a holiday resort in Tasmania and I had to deal with his private secretary in Canberra. 
Yet in his official report to the Parliament, tabled in this House, the General observes: 
The national emergency operations centre was activated and the defence force alerted at the direction of the Minister for Defence. 
If a man is incommunicado, how is he going to alert anything? That is one conflict. I will pass on to give another one. At page 158 of the book, after making allegations regarding one unit, the General concludes with this sentence: 
I came close to being ashamed of the Service I love so much. 
Yet in paragraph 13 of his report, the General observes: 
The 3 branches of the defence force played a major role in the relief operation. 
I would have thought that if he came to the state at which he was ashamed of the Service he loved, he would have said so in his official report. That was the place to state it. The General would know that if the Crown presents an indictment against a person charged with some offence and within the Crown case conflicts of that nature arise, any counsel worth his salt will be on his feet saying to the judge: 'I ask your Honour to take a certain course- to direct the Crown prosecutor to return the indictment and to enter a nolle prosequi'. 
I confess to the fact that I am mildly prejudiced in this matter. I cannot say that I am disinterested because I placed 24 questions on the notice paper concerning cyclone Tracy at the time. Hindsight is the best of all sight, as we know. We learn from experience. But I tell the House this: I sought during the crisis to get a man into Darwin. I think that he was the manager at the time of Tickle Industries. It so happens that Tickle Industries provides 80 or 90 per cent of the food distributed in Darwin. I could not get a permit for that man. I reacted predictably, as all honourable gentlemen would know. I had a word with a person in the national emergency headquarters. Knowing the delicacy of the feelings of honourable gentlemen I will spare them the language that I used. However, I asked in these questions which appear at page 275 1 of the  Hansard  record dated 22 May 1975: 
Did the Organisation . . . at about 1800 hours Eastern Standard Time . . . have the telephone number of the office of the officer in charge of the Department of the Northern Territory? 
The reply recorded in  Hansard  is: 'No'. The next question goes on to ask: Did the organisation acquire the telephone number? If so, how did they get it? 
The reply came back: 
At 1800 hours EST on 31 December 1974 the then telephone number of the permit-control officer in Darwin was passed to the duty officer in the National Emergency Centre - 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish I could retain you as my turf adviser. I apologise to the House for speaking at length- it is not my usual form- but the reply goes on to say that it was  Mr D.  J. Killen, M.P. who gave the National Emergency Headquarters at Darwin the telephone number. Honourable members can imagine that I was rather cross about that. We have all learned from cyclone Tracy and I have put to study- not an inquiry- by the Department all the criticisms which have been made by MajorGeneral Stretton and when that study is complete I will ensure that the House is appropriately informed. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  May I say to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  that I find myself in substantial sympathy with the case he has put to the House. I have looked at the regulations governing the relationship of members of the Services with political parties. I think they are anachronistic. I would like my honourable friend to know that the regulations are currently under study. For my part, I would seek to interpret them liberally- I do not use that word in any fierce sense, I use it in its technical sense. 
My honourable friend says in its real sense. My only reservation, as presently minded, is that I would seek to protect the uniform from being sullied by any fierce political conflict. For example, I think it would be sad if we saw the mythical Sergeant Bloggs, to whom the honourable member referred, in uniform and involved in one cause or the other. Of course the members of the armed Services have political attitudes, affinities and allegiances. It would be unreal if they did not, and the Parliament, the country, does not serve itself well if it seeks to pretend otherwise. The armed Services have an immaculate sense of loyalty to governments; nevertheless the people who serve do have attitudes. 
Yes. I would like my friend to know that I have looked at the regulations. I have them here, but I do not seek to weary the House by referring to them. I have discussed their import and their impact with the various legal officers of the Services. I think there is a clear need to tidy them up. When a person comes out of civilian life and joins one of the Services he does not shrug off easily his political attitude, and that is the view my friend has put. Might I say,  Mr Speaker,  that you and I have sat together in this Parliament for 2 1 years. 
You have a fragrance of expression,  Mr Speaker,  which rivals only your fragrance of memory. I cannot recall, and I say this to my friend the honourable member for Oxley, one occasion in all of those years on which any member on either side of the House has raised the case of a member of the armed Services who has been subject to some discipline, to some form of punishment, to some penalty because of his political allegiance. I would like my friend from Oxley to know just that, but I give him the assurance and give the House the assurance that I have the matter under study at the moment. When that study is finished, of course I will come back to the House and give the result. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The White Paper 'Australian Defence' was tabled on 4 November 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The reduction in staff at Woomera for the period 1 May to 3 1 October 1 976 totalled 8 1 . 
Of this total 32 were transferred or promoted to other Departments of the Public Service including other divisions in the Weapons Research Establishment, 44 resigned, 4 retired due to maximum age and 1 died. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No contracts for the supply of rope for the Royal Australian Navy have been transferred from Australian manufacturers to sources in Taiwan. 
Whenever imported items are offered in competition to locally-produced items, cost comparisons are made on the basis of imported price plus the appropriate rate of duty and primage. The cost to the Treasury of unemployment benefits payable if contracts are lost to Australian manufacturers are not taken into account in cost comparisons. 
However, as was announced by the Prime Minister on 1 October 1976, further measures have been introduced to give preference to items of local manufacture. When tenders for items valued at $13,000 or more are received from both local and overseas suppliers, a Committee of Ministers will consider whether purchase from Australian sources would assist a depressed industry or area within Australia, or enable the establishment, development or retention of industrial or technological capabilities required for reasons of national security or independence. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to the third of a series of articles in the  Bulletin  concerning allegations relating to defence secrets. I would not like perspective in this matter to be in any way distorted. I therefore renew the assurance I gave to the House on the seventeenth of last month that no classified material to my knowledge which has been prepared after 15 November 1975 has been improperly disclosed. I hope the discipline of the English language will not be abandoned. I would like to repeat that: No classified information prepared after 15 November 1975 has to my knowledge been improperly disclosed. That assurance was also given by my right honourable friend, the Prime Minister. The allegation which is made in this week's  Bulletin  among other things relates to the research facility at Pine Gap. It states:  an 'Australian Eyes Only' classified document detailing all the operations of American bases in Australia. This document was prepared for the perusal of a tiny handful of selected Ministers m the Whitlam Government. 
It goes on: 
The document almost of book size we understand, was vital in persuading senior members of the former Government that the Australian Labor Parry should play down the bases issue and forget Whitlam's pre-government promise to expose the purposes and nature of Pine Gap, North- West Cape and the other controversial U.S. bases in Australia. One copy of this document is missing. 
The House and the country may judge this allegation for its veracity when I say that no such document has ever been in existence. 
The honourable gentleman would readily link this up. The last thing I say is this: Imagination in political perception I regard as being a welcome quality. Imagination in journalistic reporting of what purport to be facts is not merely unwelcome; I regard it as being thoroughly perilous. 
for his courtesy and the Parliament for its corporate courtesy is allowing me to interrupt this quite important debate on Aboriginal matters. I have interrupted the debate,  Sir, perforce,  because the report that I have just tabled has reached certain sections of the media and I would adjudge it proper that Parliament should have the report before it so that Parliament in its own way may direct its attention to the report and to its contents. 
The report which I have just tabled was prepared by Major-General Stretton during the administration of the last Whitlam Government. Because of that fact, I have sought the approval of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to table the report. That approval has been given by my friend, the Leader of the Opposition. I spoke to the honourable gentleman last week. I told him that, because the report was an administrative one and not a public one, I deemed it proper that I should have his approval before I used the report publicly. I told him that my assessment of the report was that it was completely innocuous but nevertheless I would send a copy to him. Subsequently, I wrote to him officially and my honourable friend replied giving me his approval to use the report. It may be an old fashioned point of punctilio; nevertheless, I do not believe in using administrative documents belonging to another government unless I have the approval of the lineal heir or successor of that government. 
The report is entitled  Lessons and Recommendations from the Darwin Disaster.  The tabling of this second report means that the only written departmental reports prepared by MajorGeneral Stretton before the publication of his book have now been tabled. As honourable members are aware, Major-General Stretton, the Director-General of the Natural Disasters Organisation within the Department of Defence, has recently published a book on the first 7 days of relief operations in Darwin following cyclone Tracy in 1974.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  matters raised in the book have been the source of questions and personal explanations in the Parliament. As a result, I undertook to report more fully on this matter. It may be helpful, if I first put some matters in perspective. The book was written by a still serving senior Crown employee. It is relevant to record that Major-General Stretton did not attempt to follow the normal procedures laid down for a Government employee wishing to publish a book or otherwise to make public comment and use official information on matters concerning his duties as a Crown employee. Neither his departmental superiors nor I were aware of his intention, nor asked to approve, nor given an opportunity to study the accuracy and propriety of his text. 
It should be said,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the book is a substantially subjective account, essentially of Major-General Stretton 's own involvement in the aftermath of cyclone Tracy. In no way could it be said that it is a complete and authoritative record of the disaster, nor of the total relief operations which indeed began in Darwin as soon as the storm subsided. I remind honourable members that on 6 March 1975 the then Minister for Defence, the honourable Lance Barnard, tabled in this Parliament a documented report prepared, as was to be expected of him, by Major-General Stretton. This factual report described the way in which the people of Darwin, the Natural Disasters Organisation, the defence forces, various Commonwealth and State authorities, and indeed the nation as a whole reacted to provide immediate and generous assistance following the worst natural disaster in our history. 
It will be apparent from a cursory examination of the paper by Major-General Stretton- that is to say, the paper I have tabled- that it is of a formal and factual kind, discussing problems which occurred during cyclone Tracy, some analysis of the reasons for these problems, and his ideas and suggestions as to action to be consideredwhether by the Commonwealth Government, State governments or local Territory legislatures and authorities- to reduce further risks and problems. I say to my honourable friends that his suggestions ranged from the establishment of lesiglation in this field- if I may indulge myself the luxury of a personal observation, I would have considerable doubt as to whether this Parliament could legislate in the manner suggested by the General- to increasing the level of first aid training in schools. I would hardly have thought that that would have been the preoccupation of this Parliament. I mention this to indicate the range of suggestions made by Major-General Stretton- not to denigrate them, but to indicate the generality of them and, if I may say with respect, the innocuity of them. 
The report I have tabled, in its general form and content, is quite different from the book which has now been published by MajorGeneral Stretton. Neither in the formal report on the Darwin disaster dated 10 February 197S and tabled in this Parliament- I trust that it would not be an impertinence on my part if I were to observe that Parliament is entitled to the truthnor in this further submission dated 14 April 1975 which I have tabled this evening are there any suggestions of inadequate or improper conduct, concerning Ministers and other persons involved in the relief operations after cyclone Tracy, of the kind made in the book. 
I am not seeking to defend Ministers on my side of politics; I am speaking about Ministers who served in the last Government. Ministers are not, as some people suspect, malleable and given to being swept here and there; neither, may I venture the view, are Ministers disposed to resorting to public concealment. I go further to make this observation: Quite apart from the fact that in neither of these 2 reports are any critical comments made of Ministers- that includes my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)-  critical things are said in the book of unfortunate officials and servicemen in Darwin who, in many cases, with their wives and children, felt the full fury of cyclone Tracy. MajorGeneral Stretton described in the book the effect on him of what he saw when he arrived there after the cyclone had passed. I have already given the House one example of the inaccuracy by Major-General Stretton in his description in the book of the non-availability of the then Minister for Defence, that is to say  Mr Barnard,  to exercise his authority. The House may recall that in the book the author said that the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  was incommunicado. All my inquiries would indicate that that was simply not true. May I observe that there are other graceless references to Ministers which appear in the book for the first time. 
I should comment here on another matter raised by Major-General Stretton in his book, because it bears on the defence preparedness of this country. Major-General Stretton referred to the temporary failure of defence communications and on page 24 of his book observed: 
It was unbelievable that the Defence Forces, with all the millions of dollars spent on signals equipment, could not communicate with their units in Darwin. What if there were an enemy attack? The rest of Australia may not know that Darwin was in enemy hands. 
I am advised by the Chiefs of Staff- they are the professionals in the field- that the deployment of mobile transmitters and receivers would be an obvious military precaution whenever an attack appeared likely and such action would provide essential alternative and back-up circuits. Such mobile equipment would be located so that damage to the permanent communications stations would not affect effective communications. I observe in passing that as a senior military officer Major-General Stretton, I expect, would understand that such an obvious military precaution would have been taken. 
As will be clear from the submission dated 14 April which I have just tabled, action on MajorGeneral Stretton 's recommendations involved, firstly, the Natural Disasters Organisation itself and, beyond that, a large number of other Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities, and, as well, organisations outside the Government altogether. It is here that I observe that the Natural Disasters Organisation has a general co-ordinating function. As to the content of his report to the Minister in the preceding Administration which I have just tabled, the merit of the various suggestions has been examined by the relevant authorities. I instance to the House that the suggestions range from legislation to first aid training in schools. I assure the House that all these matters have been examined. This examination was initiated by the previous Government and it has been continued by the present Government. It is a matter of some substance to observe that some of the matters referred to by Major-General Stretton plainly belong to State authorities. The writ of this Parliament does not run in some of the fields to which he referred. 
My attention has been drawn to a claim by Major-General Stretton that, in addition to the report which I have now tabled, he made one further report to the then Chief of the General Staff concerning the performance of 7 Military District in Darwin. Upon inquiry I have been informed that, in the course of a short de-brief soon after he returned from Darwin, MajorGeneral Stretton did mention this matter to General  Sir Francis  Hassett, now the Chief of Defence Force Staff. General Hassett did not regard Major-General Stretton 's oral- I repeat oral'- observations as being matters which required further action, particularly where they affected individuals. I emphasise 'particularly where they affected individuals'. For myself, nor do I. The book makes several ungenerous references to the Army but ignores some circumstances that were relevant to the. situation during and after the cyclone. 
In conclusion, I am concerned to ensure that the Natural Disasters Organisation- which can be directed adequately only if it enjoys the confidence of, and an atmosphere of co-operation with, State and Territory administrationsshould get down to the work of disaster relief planning which is waiting to be done without the distractions that have lately been imposed upon that Organisation. I am therefore confirming as an instruction to Major-General Stretton that, as a senior serving officer with tasks demanding his effective performance in this civilian establishment, he- like any other military or civilian officer- is not to make public comments on matters of policy or administration pertaining to his official duties without prior approval from designated authority. The latitude which MajorGeneral Stretton has lately improperly claimed for himself does not exist. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following numbers of Australian cadets graduated from the Service colleges with recognised university degrees in the years 1 970 to 1 975 inclusive: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the first nine months of 1976 some thousands of orders were placed overseas under Co-operative Logistics Agreements and, in addition, more than 8000 contracts were placed overseas commercially. 
Where there is a reasonable expectation that Australian goods may be available, suitable quotes are obtained by the Services or tenders are invited by the Department of Administrative Services if the value exceeds $1,000. Where orders are placed directly overseas there are no terms in the tender conditions for the supply of these items which would ensure preference is given to Australian sources of supply, except for the offset provisions in major purchases. 
The history of previous suppliers is maintained on an individual item basis and it would be impossible to obtain the information you have requested without a very large manpower effort on the part of all three Services. I am not prepared to authorise that effort, particularly as our purchasing policy is geared to arranging contracts outside Australia without opportunity for Australian industry to tender only when items are not expected to be available from Australian sources to meet Service requirements. Accordingly, it is most improbable that there would prove to be any significant incidence of contracts placed outside Australia for items previously supplied from Australian sources. 
I put my honourable friend's polemics to one side and I begin by observing that nothing will be hidden from public view or from public scrutiny and any information that is given to me which is ill founded will be given in peril, but I stand in complete expectation that no information will be withheld. May I take the honourable gentleman's questions seriatim? The first question relates to replacement of the aircraft. The honourable gentleman will be aware of the fact that the White Paper discloses that 6 Tracker aircraft- that is 6 aircraft in addition to those which we had- were to be delivered in June or July of this year. I am under heavy obligation to  His Excellency  the United States Ambassador who rang this morning to say that the United States Administration would do whatever it could with all possible haste to replace the aircraft. I observe in passing that the aircraft is a type of aircraft which is now being phased out by the United States authorities. My last inquiry indicates that some seventy or eighty of those aircraft were available some time ago. Whether they are available today I just do not know. But - 
-The cost of the replacement aircraft was $73,000. As to the second question 3292 REPRESENTATIVES 6 December 1976  Questions Without Notice  asked by my honourable friend, the sur.Veilance - 
I am informed that the cost was $73,000 for the aircraft. It is a second hand aircraft. That figure includes all of the equipment. Nevertheless I will double check. I asked the simple question and I got the simple reply, $73,000 for a second hand aircraft- one that had been used. Nevertheless, to put my honourable friend's mind at rest I will make a further inquiry. I accepted, the information on the basis on which it was given to me. 
I assure the House that surveillance of Australian waters will continue. Regrettably, long range maritime patrol aircraft, the P3C Orion, will have to be used as well as the Neptune aircraft. This is not a role for which either aircraft is peculiarly designed. They are anti-submarine aircraft and not surveillance  aircraft simplicita  It may be appropriate if I were to take leave of the House for a moment to announce that a Board of Inquiry has been convened. Its  president  will be Commodore Rourke, the General Manager of the Garden Island Dockyard. Its members will be Captain Wickett Commander Callins and Lieutenant-Commander Home. The Board will be assisted by a Royal Australian Air Force officer, Wing Commander Brazier, who has special experience in this field. The terms of reference are: 
To hold a full and careful investigation into the circumstances attending the fire in H hangar at the naval air station, Nowra, at approximately 11.30 p.m. on 4 December with particular reference to: 
Security arrangements for the hangar and aircraft prior to the fire; 
b ) Fire prevention measures in being prior to the fire; 
Conduct of fire fighting operations; 
Steps taken to minimise loss after the fire started; and 
Recommendations to prevent recurrence. 
I observe that the Naval Police, Commonwealth Police and the New South Wales Arson Squad have already investigated the fire. Finally, I observe that the findings of the Board will be made public subject to one condition: If any disciplinary action or criminal proceedings are predicated by the findings of the Board, it would be totally improper for those findings to be made available until such action or proceeding had been taken. 
The short answer is no. Nevertheless, I say with respect that, the honourable gentleman's question is a merited and valid one. 
The honourable gentleman will acknowledge the fact that the defence power of the Commonwealth in time of peace is a very restricted power. It is a very emancipated power in time of war. This Government and the former Government, of which the honourable gentleman was a supporter, have both committed themselves to the total force concept. That is to say, the Australian Army is made up of the regular services and of the Army Reserve. But in order to use the Army Reserve at any time on the basis of emergency action we would need to have either an emergency, that is to say an actual state of war, or we would need to have a substantial amendment to the Defence Act. 
-No, but the Government, in its corporate judgment, came to the conclusion that it was very properly a matter for parliamentary and public consideration and reflection. I can assure the honourable gentleman that in terms of using the Army for the purpose he has suggested, the answer is no. Nevertheless, if the country at any time in the future wished to consider taking the total force concept to its ultimate extent, it would warrant an amendment to the Defence Act. That would be a question for the Parliament to consider. 
I was informed before Question Time that several gentlemen with a strong sense of enterprise were minded to put a diver with a camera crew nearby under a submarine at HMAS  Platypus.  I am glad to inform the House that all have been apprehended. I will say nothing further as to what I think their fate should be. I observed to my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, that I would welcome enormously the Crown brief to prosecute. I say to the honourable gentleman, not by way of levity but quite seriously, that security is not, as one would suspect, a matter which lends itself readily to objective criteria. I once believed that that was the case but a very senior Army commander pointed out to me that a battalion of troops stationed around the Woolloongabba Cricket Ground could not necessarily keep an intruder out if the intruder was skilful and so determined as to seek entry to the ground. The honourable member for Mackellar proved that during the last war when he, single handed, captured Sydney. The Leader of the Opposition may recall a former member of this Parliament asserting that it was easy to gain entry to Service establishments. He was caught and the officer of the watch rang the then Prime Minister, informed him of it, and said: 'What will I do with him?' 'Where is he?' asked the Prime Minister. 'In the guard house,' said the officer of the watch, 'What shall I do with him?'. The then Prime Minister said: 'Leave him there'. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903 1 present the annual report on the Royal Military College of Australia covering the period from 1 February 1975 to 31 January 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Each Arm of the Defence Force is interested in using the facilities at Woomera but no final decisions have yet been made. 
In the main, consideration is being given to using the area for evaluating weapons systems and for field exercises, including the use of armoured vehicles and air support 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) Monthly strength variations of -43, -1, -66 and +27 since June 1976 are too small to be meaningful. As recruiting is seasonal it is expected that strengths will decline in periods of low recruiting- such as the latter part of the year. 
The results of recruiting efforts during 1976 have been quite satisfactory. Total enlistments in the Permanent Defence Force for the six months ending October 1976 numbered 3927, an increase of 236, or 6.4 per cent, on enlistments for the same period in 1975. Similarly re-engagement rates are continuing at satisfactory levels. 
It is expected that with the intakes planned for January 1977 the Defence Forces should reach their target strengths for June 1977. 
I have no wish to seek to identify in persistence a quality hitherto unperceived but I most certainly stand by the assertion made by the Prime Minister and by me to the effect that there has not, to our knowledge, been any improper disclosure of any document prepared after November  1975. 1  notice with some astonishment an article in this week's  Bulletin  repeating that allegation. The tense which is used is not the past tense. It is the present tense; indeed, one could say it is the continuing tense. I want to repudiate as explicitly as I can the allegations as they may apply to any time after November  1975.  The only evidence- the word 'evidence' deserves to be in quotation marks- which the author of the article produces in support of his contention is: 
Drafts of the recent so-called White Paper on defence were leaked many weeks before the final governmentauthorised version was tabled in parliament. 
I ignore the pejorative and tendentious language which the author uses, but if any draft of the White Paper was leaked I expect that it would have been published. Where was it published? Possibly the author may be persuaded to inform the House where it was published. If there had been a leak I would regard it as passing strange that the draft would not have been published somewhere. There has not been to my knowledge, nor to the knowledge of my advisers, any publication of any draft of the White Paper. Further and finally, I refer to this allegation in the article: 
It just does not do to run a little publicity campaign in favour of security for the nation's defence secrets. You get defamed under parliamentary privilege . . . 
I am not aware of having said anything about the author that represents defamation, but if he has any misgiving on the point I will gladly say it outside the Parliament. As further earnest of my attitude on this I understood that the proprietor of this newspaper was a person with a strong entrepreneurial sense. I conveyed to him a message that I would find it immensely agreeable for the author of the article to appear on television, to stand in a witness box and to be crossexamined by me for half an hour. I laid down but one condition- that the television program should be live. I hope that possibly they may reflect on the invitation and take it up. I now understand that there has been nothing but a rather arctic response to the suggestion that I made. I assure the proprietor that I will not hurt the author of the article too much. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 I present the third supplement to the 25th report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 December 1972, dealing with the progress of the final actuarial examination of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973 I present the fourth report of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority, dealing with the general administration and working of that Act and of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 other than Part III for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I inform the honourable member that, as a consequence of allegations and reports made in the course of the last few days, urgent inquiries have been set in train to establish precisely what has been buried at Maralinga. That relates to the major point of the honourable gentleman's question. I am not aware of any explosions that took place between 1958 and 1961. I am aware of certain trials, which I distinguish from explosions, as presently advised, that took place. They were conducted pursuant to an agreement between the United Kingdom and Australia. Nevertheless, I will make further inquiries as may seem appropriate and inform the honourable gentleman. To my knowledge the last explosions that were conducted at Maralinga were in 1955-1956. 1 think there are 4 members of this House who have survived the political explosions in the interregnumthe honourable Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Fremantle, the honourable member for Mackellar and I. We have survived those explosions. That gang of four were in attendance- if I can explain to the honourable gentleman- at operation  Buffalo.  I think that was the series of tests. I give my friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, an assurance that I will make appropriate inquiries. Rather than wait until such time as the Parliament resumes, I will convey such information as I gather to the honourable gentleman. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Defence Report 1 976. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to make a very, very short statement regarding the defence force retirement benefits legislation. 
I am under heavy obligation to the indulgence of the House. I am pleased to inform the House that the Government has decided upon permanent methods of annual adjustment to Defence Forces Retirement Benefits and Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits pensions. In both cases, the index of adjustment will be the movement in the consumer price index during the 12 months period ending 3 1 March of each year. The adjustment will be payable from the first pension payday in July of each year, including 1976, in respect of the March 1975-1976 period. 
For DFRB pensions, the index of adjustment will apply to the total pension. For DFRDB pensions, the index will apply to the pension remaining after a pensioner has to the maximum extent, or could have, taken part of his pension as a lump sum. These methods of adjustment are consistent with those currently applying to Public Service pensioners and thus the long-standing principle of comparable treatment amongst former employees of the Crown is maintained. 
Legislation to give effect to the Government's decisions will be introduced promptly in the next sitting of the Parliament. Payments will be made shortly thereafter. Legislation will also be introduced to remove from the legislation an anomaly which is detrimentally affecting the pension entitlements of a number of late entrant officers transferred to the new scheme in 1973. 

 Mr Speaker, may I turn around and thank the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  for his magnificent persistence on behalf of those who are affected by the scheme. Gratitude is not a discipline practised in this world. May I, on behalf of the Government, thank the honourable member for Herbert for what he has done and may I presume to thank him, on behalf of all those affected by the honourable member's persistence, for what he has done. The Government is grateful. Those who will benefit from the Government's decision are grateful. The honourable gentleman has done a singular service to the country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Director Air Staff, Republic of Singapore Air Force. 
) Acting Group Captain M. A. Turnbull, General Duties Pilot, RAAF. 
Eligibility of Immigrants to Settle in Australia (Question No. 1655) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) It has been the policy and practice of successive governments not to disclose matters relating to intelligence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of flights by the Governor-General and persons who accompanied him for the period 11 November 1975 to 31 August 1976 are contained in the schedules of Royal Australian Air Force flights which I tabled on 1 8 May, 4 June and 2 1 September 1 976. 
The Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1976-1977 shows, against the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, expenditure in 1975-76 and appropriations for 1976-77 for conveyance of the Governor-General, Ministers of State and others by RAAF and Department of Transport aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. All that is meant is that, outside classified sources, the most comprehensive and readily available sources are the current editions of  The Military Balance, Jane's Fighting Ships  and  Jane's All the World's Aircraft. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Landing rights in any country are subject to the sovereignty of the country concerned. In general, however, providing proper diplomatic clearance nas been obtained for each military flight, all suitable airfield facilities in the western pan of the Indian Ocean should be available to Australian or allied military aeroplanes. In recent years, Defence Force aircraft have visited only Bahrain, the Seychelles and Diego Garcia. 
Diplomatic clearance is granted at the discretion of individual host governments, and would be influenced by their perception of the purpose of the visit and of the circumstances of the time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Strictly speaking there are very few ports with naval facilities in the western pan of the Indian Ocean. In general, however, providing proper diplomatic clearance is obtained in advance, all suitable ports and their facilities should be available for use by Australian or allied warships. RAN ships have visited the following West Indian Ocean ports in recent years: 
Mombasa, Kenya; 
Port Victoria, Seychelles; 
Mauritius; 
Bandar Abbas, Iran; 
Djibouti, Afars and Issas; 
Massawa, Ethiopia; and 
Diego Garcia. 
Diplomatic clearance for the use of facilities by Australian or allied warships is granted at the discretion of individual host governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) See following table. 
The answer is yes. I wrote to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on the third of this month, conveying to him information concerning the tests. 
-The truth will ultimately reach even you. It is a matter of some regret to me that on 2 occasions I telephoned the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's office asking for his approval to release the letter publicly, to no avail. It may be an old-fashioned view, but I am not in the habit of releasing letters that are written to people. My staff has subsequently been in touch with the honourable gentleman's office on at least 8 occasions, to no avail. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would indicate that he is agreeable to my making public the letter which I wrote to him, it would save the time of this House. I ask him,  Mr Speaker.  The silence is deafening. That being the case, and the honourable gentleman not being disposed to release the contents of the letter, I will tell the House the substance of the letter, without the personal flourishes of goodwill. In 1968 the British Atomic Energy Weapons Research Establishment made a report concerning material buried at Maralinga. That report was known as the Pearce Committee report. It was classified by the United Kingdom Government. As a consequence, this Government is in no position to declassify it. About the middle of last year the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council appointed an  ad hoc  committee to consider further the material buried at Maralinga. In December of last year its report was considered by AIRAC. The principal recommendation of that report was that the Government should undertake a further detailed study of all ecological and environmental factors associated with the burial of material at Maralinga. The Government is presently attending to that recommendation. 
Yes. In general terms the effect of devaluation upon the defence appropriation was of the order of some $46m. I may observe, not in passing, that approximately 60 per cent of the total defence expenditure comes from Australian sources. Following the Government's decision regarding devaluation, the Department of Defence has- 
-Of total expenditure. 
-With great respect, if the honourable member for Oxley were to devote a little more attention to defence and a little less attention to budgetary matters we would all be better off. The honourable member for Fremantle may be reassured that the Government's decision regarding devaluation has been and still is being carefully considered by the Department of Defence. But I am not in a position to state as yet what all of the implications are. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been thorough investigation of all the records and evidence has been taken from Australian officials who held responsible positions at the time. This investigation has turned up no evidence whatsoever supporting the allegations that radioactive waste was brought from nuclear power stations in Britain for burial at Maralinga. 
The assurance given by  Mr Garland  in 1972 remains valid regarding risk. In addition to debris from experiments carried out in the area, some small quantities of radioactive material from the following sources are also buried at Maralinga: 
washings from British service aircraft which participated in nuclear tests at Christmas Island in 1 957-58 and which later flew to Edinburgh Airfield for cleaning and maintenance. 
nuclear medical waste from the University of Adelaide. 
Imports of Rural Products from New Zealand  (Question No. 1786) 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is no. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following documents relating to defence arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea: A joint statement by the Australian Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea; a status of forces agreement which will be registered with the United Nations; and two separate exchanges of letters between the Australian Minister for Defence and the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade, concerning: Consultations regarding the use of Australian loan personnel in politically sensitive situations; and an arrangement for the supply support of the Papua New Guinea Department of Defence by the Department of Defence, Australia. 
I seek leave,  Mr Speaker,  to make a short statement relating to these documents. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that the Chief of Defence Force Staff, General  Sir Francis  Hassett, A.C., K.B.E., CB., D.S.O., M.V.O., will retire on 20 April 1977. He will be succeded by Lieutenant-General A.L. MacDonald, CB., O.B.E. General Hassett 's decision to retire has been accepted by the Government with the greatest of regret. He has given the most distinguished service to the Army, to the Services ana to the country. General Hassett has served for 42 years. He has earned the respect and admiration of all those who served with him. 
He saw operational service in World War II and in the Korean War. He also served with the Commonwealth Infantry Brigade Group in Malaya. 
As the principal military adviser to the Government, General Hassett has been obliged to discharge great responsibilities. He has done that with significant success. He has been informed that a continued acceptance of those responsibilities could well jeopardise his health. I am sure that I speak for every member of the Parliament and certainly for all those who have known General Hassett, that he carries with him in his retirement our very best wishes. 
The Chief of the General Staff, LieutenantGeneral A. L. MacDonald, has been selected to succeed General Hassett. He will be promoted to the rank of General and take up the appointment from 21 April 1977. General MacDonald has been Chief of the General Staff since November, 1975, having been promoted to Major-General in 1966. He is a most experienced and capable officer. The successor to General MacDonald as Chief of the General Staff will be Major-General D. B. Dunstan, CB., C.B.E. He has been a serving member since 1940. He will be promoted to the rank of Lieutenant-General as from 2 1 April. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no Natural Disaster Organisations in each State. Funds allocated for major items of expenditure in support of each State/Territory Emergency Service(s) for 1974-75, 1975-76, and 1976-77 are set out in the table following. 
Refer schedule. The schedule figures are for major programs only and do not include all items of expenditure made on behalf of States/Territories; other items include an annual Public Information Program and the publication of training handbooks. 
Establishment and support of an adequate organisation to effectively cope with a natural disaster in South Australia is a State responsibility. Expenditure by the Commonwealth Government (1) is designed to enhance this capacity. 
No. Courses teach principles designed to be applied to any disaster. 
Attendance by South Australian officers is included in the schedule. See ( 1 ) above. 
No specific course is proposed. See (4) above. 
This is the responsibility of the South Australian Government. 
I am surprised that the honourable gentleman has put the interpretation he has on my observations. I should like to make it pluperfect clear to the honourable gentleman that in no way was I praising the police with respect to the apprehension and charging of any individual. It would be grossly improper for me so to do. I would regard it as being utterly unacceptable to any person observing the discipline of a lawyer and I would be saddened if my honourable friend drew that conclusion. I make that clear. It was an exhausting investigation from the viewpoint of resources thrown into it. My praise was directed to all those who participated in the investigation as such: It in no way was directed, nor should it be construed as being applying, to the charge. I am sure that on reflection my friend would agree that it would be improper for me to say anything which would prejudice a fair trial of the rating. It would be open for me and it would be open for any person to draw a conclusion which could possibly prejudice that trial. I will say nothing until such time as the trial has been completed. Finally, may I remind the House that when the inquiry was established, I said that the findings of the Board of Inquiry would be made public subject to one condition and that is if any proceeding were to follow on the report of the inquiry, the findings of that report would not be made available until the criminal proceeding, whatever form it took, had been concluded. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Paragraph 85 page 24 of the Defence White Paper states: ' It is expected that, subject to all of the necessary evidence being accessible, a decision on the generic type of aircraft will be made in this financial year . . .'. 
) (a) Information on possible aircraft solutions and their performance is still being received and examined; it may be possible to make the generic decision before the end of this financial year. 
Overseas evaluation of contending aircraft will not be undertaken until company responses have been fully examined. 
The situation on role priority remains as expressed in the Defence White Paper ( paragraphs 90 and 9 1 , page 24 ). 
A brand name decision will be the last of a series of decisions the timing of which will be dependent on the outcome of the detailed analysis, investigations and evaluations now proceeding. 
I am acutely aware of the distress which the delay in acquisition has caused. I would like the honourable gentleman to know that both the Treasurer and I are doing everything possible to facilitate the completion of the acquisition. The land is wanted for the exercise of the new Leopard tanks. The honourable gentleman will, of course, acknowledge the fact that the processes of acquisition regrettably take time. An environmental study had to be concluded and that study in turn had to be considered by the Victorian Government. An opportunity had to be given to local government authorities to present arguments to the Government relating to some of the pros and cons of the land which was under the acquisition notice. I assure the honourable gentleman that I will confer with the Treasurer and see what can be done to ensure that the acquisition is completed as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

to (7) Not applicable. 
Flights  by  VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 386) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 385. 
-I did see the editorial to which the honourable member has referred and I share his sense of indignation concerning some of the sentiment expressed in the editorial. I presume that when the leader writer used the term 'service pension' he was referring to pensions that flow under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act, that is to say, pensions for servicemen in the 3 Services who contribute 5.5 per cent of their salary to the fund. In the first place the editorial writer drew heavily on his imagination to contend that these pensions were something in the nature of a sacred cow and that they should be exposed to some form of means test. I wonder what the editorial writers of the Fairfax Press generally would feel if they were told that the pensions which their contributions to a superannuation fund earn for them at some time in the future should be exposed to a means test. Further, the editorial writer contended that this was the brainless connivance of the former Government. I thought that was a gross insult to an all-party select committee in the last Parliament. 
-Two Parliaments ago, as I am reminded by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Every party in the Parliament was represented on that committee and I think for all practical purposes the committee's recommendation to the government of the day was a unanimous one. So the newspaper's assertion is inaccurate and grossly unfair. I trust that having regard to its unfairness, if for no other reason, some adjustment or some correction will be made. May I presume to remind the editorial writers that unlike most of us who contribute to superannuation funds, when those who serve in the armed Services contribute to a retirement benefits fund they are also contributing on the basis that their commitment to this country is total. In other words, they are quite prepared to say: 'The country can have my life if it needs it '. 
For the information of honourable members I present details of special flights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1 September 1976 to 28 February 1977. Due to the limited number of the schedules available at this time, I have arranged for reference copies of the report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library and with the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The list is as follows: 
The purpose of each explosion was related to the development of a British nuclear deterrent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 31 January 1977, there were 32 234 civilian staff members in the Department of Defence. Details are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$3,097.55. 
To undertake ministerial engagements and to attend press conferences in Adelaide and Sydney. 
The Mystere aircraft used for the flight is normally based at Canberra but flew direct from Sydney to Launceston on completion of an earlier task in Sydney. 
Illness from Radioactive Emissions, Facilities for Treatment (Question No. 182) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware that  Mr Ian  Tuxworth, former Executive Member for Resources Development in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, has expressed views on the subject. 
I am advised that the Department of Primary Industry, which is responsible for fisheries matters, and which is assisted in fisheries surveillance by patrolling units of the Navy and Air Force, has no evidence that would warrant the conclusion that  Mr Tuxworth  appears to have drawn. However, in so far as the Defence Force is involved in these matters it will bear in mind in its activities the need to guard against such devices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes- At 17 March 1977 one part-time female pay clerk was employed in the community store. Five female shop assistants were employed on a casual basis (approximately15 hours per week). Six juniors, both male and female, were employed at weekends on a casual basis (approximately 10 hours per week). There are no American nationals employed on a permanent basis. 
On 17 March 1977 there were no applications from Australian citizens seeking employment in the community store. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is a long-standing arrangement with the States that the Natural Disasters Organisation or the Defence Force do not become involved in disaster situations in the States, except at the request of the appropriate State authorities. This policy applies equally to locust plagues. It is also a precondition for the provision of assistance that the State is unable to cope with the situation from its own resources or that other compelling circumstances exist. The conditions are well known to the States, and the Plague Locust Commission has also been informed of them. 
An exception to the above arrangements is that a Local Commander may take action on his own initiative, and from within his own resources, to provide assistance in those civil emergencies where immediate action is necessary to save human or animal life or to prevent extensive loss or damage to property and where civilian resources are either inadequate, beyond the resources of the State to meet, not available or cannot be mobilised in time. 
Within the conditions described in (1), personnel, equipment and expenditure may be authorised to assist State authorities to combat locust plagues. Unless there are special circumstances, it is the policy to seek recovery of the additional costs incurred, that is, those costs which would not have been incurred by the Defence Force had assistance not been given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) No VIP flight was made to Mount Gambier on either 1 1 or 15 March 1976. However, an aircraft of No. 34 Squadron, RAAF made a training flight through Mount Gambier on each of those dates. 
No goods, foodstuffs or articles were delivered to Mount Gambier on these flights. 
No goods, foodstuffs or articles were picked up from Mount Gambier other than as advised in answer to Question No. 425  (Hansard,  1 8 May 1976, page 2 1 60). 
Transport of these items was authorised by the Commanding Officer, No. 34 Squadron RAAF. The items belonged to and were obtained from Mildara Wines Ltd., Coonawarra, S.A. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In contractual arrangements with suppliers of equipment, a basic price for the equipment is agreed between the Australian Government and the suppliers. Additionally, provision may be made in the contract for the payment of costs arising from escalation of labour and material on a previously agreed basis. 
Replacement items would normally be purchased under similar contractual conditions as those applying to a current order, in the event of a replacement order necessitating the re-opening of a production line, costs associated with this would add to the unit cost of the replacement item and these may require further negotiation. 
Generally the price per unit for major defence equipment items is supplied by manufacturers 'in confidence '. In view of this it would not be appropriate for me to divulge the detailed information you seek. 
Raid on South African Council of Churches and Christian Institute Offices by South African Government  (Question No. 389) 
The honourable member for Evans asks a very thought provoking question. The first observation I would make is that the orthodox protection of individuals, Prime Ministers, or ordinary citizens against attacks such as he adverts to is primarily a responsibility of the civil power. But taking the honourable gentleman's wider question, namely the issue of terrorism, he raises what is regrettably today one of the most frightening and perplexing problems which faces the Western world. Terrorism does not follow any orthodox ways. The problem that it poses to a civilised society is very grave. It is a particularly difficult problem for a federal system of government. The Commonwealth has a clear responsibility to protect the States against invasion and also to assist the States against domestic violence. But before the Commonwealth can move to assist the States against domestic violence, there must be a request from the executive government of the State concerned. Plainly, the honourable gentleman and the House will see at a glance that very difficult and technical problems are involved. I can assure the House and the country that this matter has received and will continue to receive the most earnest attention of the Government. 
I excuse myself from saying in particular what has been done. But the Chiefs of Staff Committee, acting in co-operation with advisers from the Attorney-General's Department and from the Department of my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, has ensured that such steps as would appear to be adequate have been taken. Doctrines and techniques have been developed. While this country to date has been spared any terrorist attacks, regrettably no such guarantee can be given as to the future. I can assure the honourable gentleman that within all reasonable limits every precaution has been taken. Such precautions will continue to be taken and to be refined. 
I find it massively tempting, with respect to the last part of the honourable gentleman 's question, to say emphatically: 'No, I am not satisfied'. But all governments must cut their cloth according to what is available. That has been my experience with all Treasurers and the present Treasurer is no exception. The White Paper represents the Government's program, and the Government intends to ensure that that program is observed. I may inform the honourable gentleman that my understanding is that a decision will be made within the next month or so regarding which type of patrol boat will be ordered. 
There are 2 companies heading consortiums in competition with each other for the patrol boat order. Both consortiums comprise a number of Australian components. There is a German company and a British company, Brooke Marine. My understanding is that that decision should be made within 2 months. I have asked the Chief of Naval Staff" and the members of the respective committees concerned with the decision making to seek to expedite a decision. I share the honourable gentleman's concern with respect to the enormous problems predicated by this country's acquiring a 200 mile exclusive resources zone in the ocean. I would hope that the House and the country would have some understanding of that problem when I say that the area of water involved is a mere 500 000 square miles short of the area of the land mass of this continent. 
I am sure that if the honourable gentleman looks at the White Paper and the Defence Report he will find that the suggestion he has made has been substantially, if not completely, met. The only other comment I would make is to point out to the honourable gentleman that the provision of recreational facilities would seem to me to be very much a matter of everyday Service life. 
One can use the example of a golf course or, indeed, a swimming pool. I am sure that the honourable gentleman would find that if his life was entirely given over to work he would be somewhat on the dull side. The aim of the Service is to ensure that those who serve in the armed forces are given every opportunity to have access to recreational facilities. If there is any particular detail which is bothering the honourable gentleman I would be under obligation to him if he would furnish me with it. 
If I may I shall begin by reading the terms of the matter of public importance to remind the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  precisely what he has put before the House for discussion this afternoon. They are: 
The need for Parliamentary scrutiny of foreign intelligence services in Australia. 
That is the proposition that has come from the honourable gentleman's pen. During the course of his speech, indeed at the very beginning, he spoke about the gravity of the matter before the House. I may say, with respect, that I find myself in complete agreement with him as to the gravity of the matter the House is discussing. But the extraordinary thing about the argument put by the honourable gentleman is that it shows but a scant acknowledgement of the gravity of the issue. I invite the House to look quietly and purposefully at part of the argument which the honourable gentleman has delivered to this House. He said: 'I am not asking for the security services of this country to be placed under parliamentary scrutiny'. That is the effect of what the honourable gentleman said. I know that he does not dispute that. Indeed, I am left with the impression that he agrees with me so I shall recapitulate it. He said: 'I am not asking for the security services of this country to be placed under parliamentary scrutiny.' If that be the case I ask the honourable gentleman: How on earth does he propose that the activities of any foreign body which may or may not operate in this country be placed under the control of this Parliament? Should the activities of such a body be placed under the control of the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee or the Public Works Committee? The honourable gentleman has painted himself into a farcical position. He knows as perfectly well as I do that no government would tolerate, by one iota, any diminution of Australian sovereignty by any foreign body operating in this country. The honourable gentleman knows that as well as I know it and as well as any of my colleagues who have ministerial responsibility in this field know it. 
Even if the honourable gentleman's basic argument is accepted I ask the House to consider by what means is Parliament to exercise scrutiny over bodies which may or may not operate in this country? What are the bodies charged with an administrative responsibility with respect to foreign agents? The person who has responsibility in this field and who has to answer for that responsibility in this House is the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott).  He commands ministerial responsibility for the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. So, I say to the honourable gentleman: I think he is dead wrong with respect to his argument on this matter because the only body in existence which has an administrative responsibility for surveillance, superintending, scrutinising, considering and assessing the activities of bodies which may or may not operate in this country is the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Therefore, it behoves us to go back to the beginning of this body and to consider for a moment or two the attitude adopted by successive Prime Ministers. There is not one exception to be found. I refer to the late  Mr Chifley,  not to lacerate the feelings of the Leader of the Opposition but to remind him of what  Mr Chifley  had to say when this body was established in 1949. The late  Mr Chifley  said: 
It is not the practice in this country or any other country to discuss in the Parliament the methods employed by an organisation of that kind. Therefore I do not propose to deal with such details here. The work of the  security  organisation is entrusted to highly qualified men who can be considered to be completely impartial. Should any matter arise which I believe should be reported to the Parliament, I shall take that course. 
The honourable gentleman this afternoon said: 'Oh yes, I agree with that.' But when he is confronted with his own argument what does he say? Does he repudiate the stand taken by a distinguished predecessor of his in office. In the same year a late honourable member of this Parliament returned to this precise point of whether there should be disclosure. Point blank, in language which I trust all honourable members can understand,  Mr Chifley  said: 
No. 
This is the summation of what he had to say: 'There will not be any disclosure'. Again, a former late member of this Parliament asked the then Attorney-General, the right honourable member for Barton,  Dr Evatt,  whether he would make any comment about security activities.  Dr Evatt  said: 
Under the charter issued to the Director-General of Security the matters referred to by the honourable member are within the responsibility of the Director-General and it is not in the interests of security to disclose the information available to him or his opinions and his actions. 
This argument was so clear, so free from ambiguity and so convincing in its common sense that it was adopted by the Prime Minister of the day in 1950. One could go on from year to year to find parallel attitudes, comparable attitudes. I shall not do so because it would do a disservice to find attitudes which were in complete and utter coincidence. No Prime Minister and no Minister who has ever had to discharge a responsibility in this field has attempted to tamper with that principle. 
Let me say to the honourable gentleman that it is a principle that cannot be watered down without being washed away. I hope that the honourable gentleman will bear that in mind. But if it is his attitude today that conversion has swept over him and that he now wants to adopt a different stand, let him tell the House the reasons that prompt him to change his mind. I call now as my witness on the divulging of security information, none other than the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Speaking from this Dispatch Box in August 1973 the honourable gentleman had this to say to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who I understand will also participate in this debate. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
I do not concede that security services should be answerable to the Parliament. 
Pray, how does the honourable gentleman suggest that they should be answerable? By calling a person before the bar of the House? By putting an advertisement in a newspaper? No proposal has come from the honourable gentleman this afternoon concerning this. So he can take his own stand. Is his stand now one of approbation of the attitude taken by his distinguished predecessors? Has he now abandoned the attitude taken by himself but three or four years ago? 
I move on a little further. On the same day in 1973 the honourable gentleman was asked another question on security matters and he said: 
The Director-General of Security and I realise that it is quite improper and it is unprecedented to reveal and to publicise security documents or  conversations  concerning security. 
Yet here is the beckoning invitation from the honourable gentleman this afternoon that through some Heath Robinson apparition, through some undefined means, this Parliament is to exercise a scrutiny of activities of bodies that may or may not exist in Australia. I move on a little to the honourable gentleman's argument as he has put it to us this afternoon. He has adverted to the fact that he has been briefed on certain matters in this country, as a few of us are. I am indebted to him to be relieved of the anxiety that in no circumstances would he seek to divulge briefings given to him. But that then prompts me to ask the honourable gentleman: What was the purpose of his initiating this debate here this afternoon? I heard no fierce denunciation from the honourable gentleman about the activities of the KGB or the GRU. The Leader of the Opposition claims that the CIA does this and the CIA does that. I remind the honourable gentleman of the language which he used in the past. It is language that I used. He used it before an American television audience. Speaking in the United States in October 1974 he declared: 
My Government knows what the U.S. is doing. We have full knowledge and have given our concurrence. 
A few months later speaking in Australia on Australian Broadcasting Commission national news he said: 
We know what goes on there and we can stop it if we want to. There is no derogation of Australian sovereignty. 
This afternoon the word 'sovereignty' fell from the lips of the Leader of the Opposition in an emotive and pejorative sense as though there is some sinister activity at work in this country which is bit by bit chiselling away at the sovereignty of the Australian nation. I adopt the honourable gentleman's language which he used when he commanded a far more responsible position than he commands today. The last argument he sought to press upon us was the argument that came from Boyce in the U.S., Boyce, who I remind the House has been convicted by an American jury- a jury of his peers- for spying. The honourable gentleman said that we must take notice of the evidence given by  Mr Boyce.  Obviously the jury took notice of the evidence given against  Mr Boyce.  But the honourable gentleman would much prefer today to summon before the high court of Parliament the evidence of  Mr Boyce  rather than the verdict of the jury. I ask the honourable gentleman to peer back through the years to see what has been done against western civilisation by those intent upon destroying it, by people such as Fuchs, Pontecorvo, Alan Nunn-May and George Blake- the whole dreary recital of these people who have betrayed their countries and their countries' secrets. It is there to caution all men of goodwill, and I hope that all men of goodwill would take some notice of it. 
But here this afternoon the Leader of the Opposition said that we have had enough of this. We must ensure that this country is adequately protected. I agree with that sentiment. But in conclusion I invite the honourable gentleman to ponder a little about this: How would it be if any agent who may or may not be operating in this country knew of the counter activities being taken. He would operate with a contemptuous attitude towards the whole apparatus of Australian democracy. I am sorry- no, I go further and say that I am sad- that the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon has lent his name, his dignity and his office to this contemptuous discussion. It is unworthy of him; it is unworthy of the Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) As I announced on 19 April 1977, the Government has authorised me to proceed with modifications to the reversionary benefits' arrangements to bring them into line with the more beneficial provisions of the new Public Service superannuation scheme. The main proposals are: No cancellation of a widow's pension if she remarried; restoration where appropriate of pensions previously cancelled for this reason; and extension of pension benefits in some cases to widows and children previously excluded because the marriage took place after retirement. The amending legislation will be introduced in Parliament as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The prime contractor for the construction of the Joint Defence Space Communications Station was the Australian firm of A. V. Jennings. 
and (3) The Australian share of the cost of establishing the Station was $1.5m. Australia does not contribute to the annual operating cost of the Station but does maintain about 40 personnel there, mainly RAAF and Commonwealth Police at Commonwealth expense, as well as sharing the costs of the Woomera Support Area. 
The construction of the Station was almost entirely an Australian industrial effort. In the operation of the Station, there are at present 142 Australian civilian contractor employees at the Station (employed at United States expense) of whom 42 are employed in the operation of the Station while the remainder provide the entire industrial effort in the maintenance and support of the Station. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
AIRCRAFT No. 1 : BAC- 1 1 1 2.3.77 Canberra/Coolangatta/Melbourne/Canberra 2.3.77 Canberra (Local Training) 3.3.77 Canberra/Melbourne/Canberra  /Melbourne/Canberra  7.3.77 Canberra/Launceston/Canberra 9.3.77 Canberra/Brisbane/Canberra 
AIRCRAFT No. 2: BAC- 1 1 1 3.3.77 Canberra/Melbourne/Canberra 3.3.77 Canberra/ Williamtown/Canberra 7.3.77 Canberra/Bourke/Canberra 9.3.77 Canberra/Brisbane/Canberra 
AIRCRAFT No. 3:  Mystere 4.3.77 Canberra/Sydney/Melbourne/Canberra 8.3.77 Canberra ( Local Training) 8.3.77 Canberra/Richmond/Canberra 
AIRCRAFT No. 4: Mystere 1 .3.77 Canberra/ Rockhampton/ Moranbah/Cairns 1.3.77 Cairns/Alice Springs/Darwin/Alice Springs 3.3.77 /Melbourne/Canberra 4.3.77 Canberra/Adelaide/Wagga/Sydney /Canberra 
AIRCRAFT No. 5: Mystere  2.3.77 Canberra/Armidale/Canberra/Sydney /Canberra 5.3.77 Canberra/Sydney /East Sale/Canberra 5.3.77 Canberra/Sydney/Canberra 6.3.77 Canberra/Melbourne/Canberra 6.3.77 Canberra/Sydney/Canberra 
AIRCRAFT No. 6: HS748 2.3.77 to Canberra /Cairns /Cook town /Thursday 4.3.77 Island/Weipa/Normanton/ Bourketown/M 
Isa/Longreach/Brisbane/Canberra  5.3.77 Canberra/Corryong/Melbourne/Bendigo  /Albury/Canberra  6.3.77 Canberra/Latrobe Valley/Canberra 
Sydney/Canberra  9.3.77 Canberra/Williamtown/Canberra 
AIRCRAFT No. 7: HS748  1.3.77 Canberra/Horsham/Melbourne/Canberra 4.3.77 Canberra (Test Flight) 9.3.77 Canberra (Test Flight) 
I agree with the honourable member for St George that this is a most vexing matter. I assure him that it has attracted my attention in a variety of ways. I speak with all the warmth of experience as Flight Sergeant Killen. I had a great deal of difficulty attaining the rank of Flight Sergeant. I had even more difficulty staying there. It always struck me as being a heavy blow against the egalitarian movement that in one mess a certain charge was made for a glass of beer while in another mess a different charge was made. Such was the nature of my anxiety in this matter that I asked my colleague, the Minister for Construction, who has had a lifelong experience in the matter of canteens, to investigate it. Honourable gentlemen may understand how seriously the Minister for Construction treats the matter when I say that he has examined in detail a report prepared by a distinguished Australian,  Sir Basil  Osborne.  Sir Basil  was appointed by my predecessor,  Mr Barnard,  to inquire into the operation of canteens throughout Australia. My colleague is in the process of completing that examination. I can assure the honourable gentleman that the Minister for Construction is also approaching this matter seriously and with a great degree of earnestness because he speaks with all the authority of ex-Gunner McLeay. 
Pursuant to section 10A of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953 I present the Veterans' Residences Trust annual report for 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The answer to the Question bears a Security classification that cannot be made public without disclosing an operational capability of the RAN and RAAF. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No incident reports of injury caused in the manner described were received for exercise ' Kangaroo 2 '. 
and (4) Yes reports received since exercise 'Kangaroo 2 ' show that four soldiers have received minor injuries from the hatch covers falling on their heads. Injuries received in each case were lacerations to the scalp requiring a few stitches. (5), (6) and (7) Experienced user officers advise that they have never experienced any safety problem with the current hatch configuration when the quick release catch has been correctly fastened. 
Only two defect incident reports concerning the hatches of the Ml 13 family of vehicles have been received. The details are as follows: 
November 1973: Investigated and fixed by correct adjustment, and 
May 1976: Investigated and fixed by replacement of worn hinges. 
In December 1976, however, advice was received from the US Army that under certain conditions, the hatch could slam shut from the open latched position. Accordingly, a modification to the hatch securing mechanism, which was included in the US Army advice, is being considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no armoured infantry units in the Army at the present time. 
There are no plans to raise armoured infantry units at the moment. 
A trial is being planned within existing manpower, equipment and financial allocations to develop tactical and organisational concepts appropriate to the employment of mechanized infantry in the Australian setting. 
No. Only preparatory steps have been taken. The organisation and objectives for the trial and evaluation phases are presently under review. 
5 ) No. See answer to Question 2. 
Equipment requirements cannot be determined until the trial is completed but some additional items could be required. 
The procurement of any such additional stores of equipment has not been addressed as there are no plans to raise such a unit in the foreseeable future. 
I should like to be in the position to give a categorical and unequivocal yes. But the issue is not free of difficulty, as I am sure my honourable friend will appreciate. I share his concern regarding the patrol boat project. It is one of the most important projects that currently occupy my attention and the Government's attention. I should like the honourable member to know that I am in the process of having discussions with the Treasurer. He has his difficulties; that I acknowledge, but I know that he shares my concern regarding the patrol boat project. It is his anxiety to see that the program, as far as possible, will be met. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is a continuing review of the deployment of the two Mirage squadrons to Butterworth. There is no present intention to make any change. Under the terms of the Exchange of Notes with Malaysia of 1 December 1971, the Government would consult with the Government of Malaysia over any proposal to alter the size or character of the force. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Exchange of Notes between Australia and Malaysia (see Question 1 and 2 above) which provides the formal basis for the RAAF presence at Butterworth, was made pursuant to, and explicitly related to the Five Power Communique issued at the conclusion of the Ministerial Meering in London on the 1 6 April 1 97 1 , to consider matters of common interest relating specifically to the external defence of Malaysia and Singapore. In that communique, Ministers declared: 'in relation to the external defence of Malaysia and Singapore, that in the event of any form of armed attack externally organised or supported, or the threat of such attack against Malaysia or Singapore, their Governments would immediately consult together for the purpose of deciding what measures should be taken jointly or separately in relation to such attack. ' 
No. 
No. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Materials Research Laboratories (MRL) Maribyrnong Victoria is currently the only establishment in Australia capable of calibrating aircraft weighing kits to the accuracy of 0. 1 per cent required by the Department of Transport. 
and (3) An investigation is being made into the desirability of transferring responsibility for certain high level standards and calibration work, including aircraft weighing kits, from MRL to the National Standards Laboratory of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. This function is only a small part of the present work of MRL. No dismantling of any nationally important capability is contemplated. 
Observing the constraints to which the honourable member has referred, the answer is yes. I am sure my honourable friend will be aware that the reliable literature on this subject is immense. For example, there are the 
Adelphi papers prepared by the Institute of Strategic Studies in the United Kingdom, a body whose work is readily accepted as being of substantial and high authority. It is my recollection that the former American Secretary for Defence,  Mr Rumsfeld,  presented to the Congress a 200-page report on this very subject. I repeat that observing the constraints mentioned by the honourable gentleman I shall see that such a report is prepared. 
The present intention is to seek to commission the facility in the year 1978. The honourable gentleman will be aware that the Government acknowledges that, plainly it has a 2-ocean responsibility, and that, in order to discharge that responsibility, it is essential that the facility at HMAS  Stirling  be put into operation. Some $45m or $50m has been invested in the facility. The Government is most anxious that the facility be commissioned. I say that that is the program for 1978. The Treasurer is doing everything possible to see that that program will be met. He is approaching it with the same sense of anxiety as I am. 
by leave- Successive governments have repeatedly stated that the nature of the research programs at the Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap, its operation and the information derived from the programs are classified and must remain so. Ministers of both Labor and coalition governments who have been briefed on the facility have accepted that it is in Australia's national interest to participate in the facility and to preserve its secrecy. This is still the position and the Government will not depart from the long-standing practice of neither confirming nor denying speculation and claimed revelations' about the facility. However, in the light of suggestions that the facility might have been used in bad faith by our American partner against Australian interests and to make an unauthorised intrusion into Australian sovereignty, the Government has decided to give some public reassurance as to the basis on which Australian Governments have continued to support the facility and its operations. 
Those Australians and Americans whose briefing has been authorised by their respective Governments are fully aware of the nature of the work of the facility and how the facility is operated. Those at the site whose responsibilities so require have equal right of access to all parts of the facility and to its activities and all results of the research. This right of access excludes only the 2 national communications rooms of the operating partners, to which, in accordance with standard practice at all joint installations, access is restricted to preserve national cipher security. National privacy in this respect, however, does not, and cannot, extend to denial of knowledge of the programs and activities of the facility. 
The interdependence of the staff in their work and the physical layout of the various areas of work are such that the scope of a program being undertaken is clear to all working there, Australia or American, and to supervisors visiting the areas. Even the most detailed information can be readily obtained and checked. 
The senior Australian on site is the Australian defence representative. He works closely with his United States counterpart, participating daily in the decision-making concerned with program activities. He likewise attends the daily staff conferences and meetings reviewing operations. He has detailed knowledge and experience of the capability and activities of the facility and, of course, complete access at any time to all areas and operations. There are other Australians on the floor working across the various shifts and programs and with unrestricted access. There is no way in which systematic deception or activities detrimental to Australian interests could go undetected, even were it assumed that it was feasible and advantageous ever to attempt them. 
Programs are actively monitored, both at the facility and by the Department of Defence in Canberra, to ensure compatibility with Australian national policy and interests. Australia has the right to intervene if it has doubts or objections regarding any activity. As the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said on 7 February 1975: 
We know what goes on there and we can stop it if we want to. 
That was true then and it is true now. Under  Mr Whitlam's  Administration Australia's control arrangements regarding the facility were closely reviewed and strengthened. 
The Government rests its full confidence in the facility's being used only in accordance with purposes agreed by Australia on the knowledge of the facility's purpose and activities over many years and on the practical arrangements that ensure Australian access to and control of its functions and operations. This confidence is reinforced by the judgment that a United States administration would be unlikely to put in jeopardy the valuable benefits derived from the facility by trying to use the facility to gain some much less significant advantage in respect of Australia. 
The former Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, who was, of course, briefed on the facility, its operations and how it functioned shortly after assuming office, and again in 1973 and 1974, publicly declared that the facility operated with his Government's 'full knowledge and concurrence'. He spoke publicly also of the valuable contribution made by the facility to world peace. Ministers in the present Government who have been briefed about the facility fully support such comments. They also are completely satisfied that the facility is not used against Australian interests, governmental or private. 
I might add to this statement that, subject to his obligation to preserve secrecy, which he renewed in the House on 4 May, my friend the honourable the Leader of the Opposition is welcome at any time to refresh his briefing on the facility in the Department of Defence and to raise any questions regarding it. I present the following paper: 
Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine GapMinisterial Statement, 2 June 1977. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for the co-ordination of plans for the protection of persons and property in the Lucas Heights area rests with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I am informed that the Commission has detailed plans to deal with any contingency that could arise. 
The only role that the Defence Force might have would be in relation to existing arrangements and procedures for providing assistance to the civil authorities in circumstances where these authorities could not cope. It is most unlikely that such assistance would be required in any conceivable situation arising from an incident at Lucas Heights. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Repair work on two of the S2E's recovered from the NAS Nowra fire was completed on 5 April 1977 and 21 April 1977 respectively. This repair work restored them fully to the operational capability they possessed before the fire. Both these aircraft and the S2E which was undergoing progressive aircraft re-work at the time of the fire embarked in HMAS  Melbourne  on 28 April 1977. 
There were no modifications to the S2E airframe equipment or systems incorporated in the repair program. 
The estimated cost of repairing the two S2E's was $A80,000 each, plus the spares required. The final cost has yet to be determined but is now estimated at $A82,000 for the first aircraft and $A75,000 for the second. 
The S2G aircraft are to be re-worked to meet the standards normally required by the Royal Australian Navy. The work includes treatment for corrosion, minor repair to wiring, installation of minor modifications to bring all aircraft to a common standard and painting. 
) The cost of an S2G progressive aircraft re-work (PAR) is expected to be substantially the same as for the S2E, that is about 6000 man hours (or SA85.800 at the current rate, not including spares used ). The costs for six aircraft therefore are estimated to be of the order of $A0.5m. 
Tracker aircraft are re-worked every 30 months under the RAN Maintenance Policy and provision had already been made in the 1977/78 estimates for 5 in number S2E aircraft to undergo PAR at Hawker de Havilland. It is now intended to undertake similar work on 7 in number S2G aircraft instead; thus the additional cost in 1977/78 over and above that already estimated is 1 2 000 man hours or $ 1 7 1 ,000. 
The re-work cost of a further five S2G aircraft is expected to be the same as that described earlier, except for any increases in the agreed Hawker de Havilland manhour rate. However, subsequent to FY 1977/78 the frequency of re-work will revert to that already provided for the S2E in the 1 977/82 five year program. 
The following personnel, listed by numbers and trade, will form the nucleus of S2G trained operators and main takers: 
Two Sub-Lieutenant Observers for AQA-7 (sonar computer-recorder system) operator training with the 
Two Petty Officers Air Technical Communications (POATC), one Able Seaman Air Technical Communications (ABATC) and one Senior Naval Systems Technical Officer Grade One (SNSTOl) for AQA-7 and ARR-75 (sonobuoy receivers) maintenance training with the USN. 
Four Petty Officers Air Technical Weapons Electrical (POATWL) for ASN 50/73 (attitude, heading reference system) maintenance training with the RAAF. 
d ) Two Petty Officers Air Technical Weapons Ordnance (POATWO), and two Petty Officers Air Technical Airframes ( POATA) for AERO- 1 B (retro-ejector system) maintenance training with the RAAF. 
This nucleus of S2G trained personnel will then be responsible for further operator and maintainer training, all of which will be conducted in Australia. This further training will be an ongoing commitment during the operational life of the S2G. The personnel listed below, by rank and trade, represent the first group to be trained as pan of the ongoing commitment: 
Fifteen Sub-Lieutenant Observers as AQA-7 operators. 
Two Chief Petty Officers, seven Petty Officers, six Leading Seamen and 1 1 Able Seamen Air Technical Communications, as AQA-7 and ARR-75 maintainers. 
Two Chief Petty Officers, six Petty Officers, six Leading Seamen and 10 Able Seamen Air Technical Weapons Electrical as ASN 50/73 maintainers. 
Two Chief Petty Officers, three Petty Officers, four Leading Seamen, eight Able Seamen Air Technical Weapons Ordnance and six Chief Petty Officers, 10 Petty Officers, six Leading Seamen and 15 Able Seamen Air Technical Airframes as AERO- IB maintainers. 
All personnel listed above for S2G training will come from S2E squadrons and workshops. No additional personnel are involved. 
As all the personnel involved in S2G training are currently employed in S2E associated billets, no additional wage costs will be incurred by the RAN. The table below, however, shows the cost of wages expected to be paid to the personnel while they are undergoing training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Monthly class/day figures of Soviet naval and naval associated ships which operated in the Indian Ocean during the period 1 July 1976 to 30 April 1977 are shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Service personnel posted to Defence Central Staff and the three Service Offices are encouraged, but not required to wear uniform while on duty, except as directed for specific occasions. 
Yes. 
and (4) Service personnel in the Defence complex are under the direction of the individual Services with regard to the wearing of uniform. The Chiefs of Staff Committee reaffirmed as general policy in 1974 that the wearing of uniform by Service personnel in the Defence complex should not be compulsory. 
Honourable members will recall that on 4 December 1976 a fire at the Naval Air Station, Nowra, burnt down a hangar and destroyed or damaged 10 Grumman S2E Tracker aircraft and associated equipment. The Board of Inquiry was convened by the Flag Officer Commanding East Australia Area under the authority of the Naval Defence Act and was directed to examine the security arrangements and fire prevention measures which existed before the fire, how the fire was fought and action taken to minimise loss after the fire started, and to make recommendations to prevent a recurrence. They were advised that their report should state whether the fire and subsequent damage and destruction were attributable to acts or omissions on the part of any person or persons. 
The Board's inquiry was conducted concurrently with an extensive investigation undertaken by the New South Wales Police Force, assisted by Naval Police and the Commonwealth Police Force. The police investigations continued altogether for over 12 weeks. Approximately 2000 people were interviewed. The Board of Inquiry enjoyed exceptionally close co-operation and integration of effort with the police. The Board of Inquiry was assisted by a specialist in fire services and security from the Royal Australian Air Force and by experts drawn from a broad spectrum of specialised agencies of Commonwealth, State and local governments. I take this opportunity to record the appreciation of the Government for the valuable assistance provided by all authorities and persons to the Board of Inquiry. The Board of Inquiry established that the fire in H hangar was caused by deliberate action. Aviation gasoline was drained to the hangar floor from the tanks of at least two aircraft, the sprinkler system shut-off valve was closed and the gasoline was lit. The person solely responsible for these actions was Able Seaman Graham John Trent. 
The conclusions I have tabled are taken verbatim from the Board of Inquiry report, except for names of individuals which have been removed in accordance with the practice that documents tabled in the House should not contain the names of individuals who are the subject of criticism. 
The major conclusions of the Board of Inquiry were that the material aspects of security of aircraft within the hangar and of the hangar itself were less than adequate; various procedures relating to security of aircraft and hangars at the Naval Air Station were unsatisfactory; certain persons did not carry out their security duties in accordance with orders; various proposals to enhance the security of the Naval Air Station had not been put into effect; the standards of construction of H hangar were below those considered appropriate today for the safe stowage of aircraft; and the response to the alarm was good, the fire could not have been extinguished sooner or more closely confined, the actions taken to fight the fire were sound and many men showed great courage and determination in fighting the fire and removing aircraft to safety. 
As honourable members will see from the paper I have tabled, the Board also drew conclusions on other matters of lesser importance dealing with inadequacies or deficiencies in the administration of security and fire protection at the Station. In April this year Able Seaman Trent was tried by court-martial on 13 charges of wilfully damaging a hangar and wilfully destroying or damaging a number of aircraft. The courtmartial found that Trent did the acts charged but was insane at the time when the acts were done so as not to be responsible according to law for his actions. The court-martial ordered that Trent be kept in custody until the pleasure of the Governor-General is known. Ten officers have been dealt with for their failure to ensure adequate security of the Air Station and its valuable assets and for not exercising proper supervision of duty security personnel on the night of the fire. The officers have been censured or admonished, including two severely censured at the highest level. 
Short of trial and conviction by court-martial a censure is the most severe action that may be taken against an officer in peacetime. Consideration was given to the trial by court-martial of some of the officers concerned for negligence. Before an officer can be convicted by courtmartial in relation to negligence, it must be established beyond reasonable doubt that his conduct amounts to neglect in the manner charged. If so, it must further be established that the neglect is blameworthy or culpable in the circumstances. After receiving legal advice it was decided not to proceed by court-martial. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that a number of officers had fallen short of the standards expected of them to such a degree that censure or admonition was warranted. In addition, charges were laid against 10 sailors in summary proceedings. The offences alleged involved breaches of discipline committed whilst on duty. One sailor was found not guilty. In the other nine cases convictions resulted and fines were imposed. 
Immediate steps were taken to improve the security protection of naval aircraft and the base complex. The following specific actions have been taken: 
Security of aircraft has been considerably improved by employing sentries in hangars, by more effective mobile patrols equipped with two-way radios, by more frequent random checks by senior Station officers and duty officers, and by the introduction of guard dog teams. The number of guard dog teams will be increased shortly. 
The security of the hangars has been upgraded to the extent practicable at this stage; doors can no longer be opened by outside devices, all padlocks have been checked in good order and the barring of external windows will be completed this month. 
The organisation for the control of keys to secure areas is now fully in accordance with Station orders and Naval regulations. 
The procedures for access to the Naval Air Station have been reviewed. Entry to secure areas within the establishment is being carefully controlled. 
Fire prevention and fire fighting measures have been improved by a number of steps including the dispersal of aircraft, the locking of sprinkler control rooms, the improved readiness of fire fighting equipment and agents, clarification of orders on the carriage of cigarette lighters and matches, and the removal of flammable liquids and combustible material from hangars on completion of work each day. Action also has been taken to improve the training and exercising of personnel in the fighting of all types of fires that might be encountered on the Station, and to improve procedures to contact duty personnel and the local fire brigade. 
Some $43,000 has been expended or committed on works to improve security since the fire. In addition, items have been included in the works program for this financial year to provide for improved security to a number of areas in the Station, principally to extend the facilities for the introduction of two new fire tenders, to improve the perimeter road, to provide a flammable stowage for one hangar, and to improve security and fire protection in a number of other buildings. These items are being progressed as rapidly as practicable. Consideration is being given to a number of further measures including provision of additional security fencing, illumination and security alarms for other sensitive areas, illumination of the aircraft hardstanding adjacent to the hangars, and renewal of lighting in some hangars using flame-proof fitments. Action is proceeding for the early installation of intruder alarm systems to the appropriate hangars at the Air Station. A full periodic inspection of the Naval Air Station has recently been completed. Considerable improvement in the Station's security awareness has been reported. 
There can be no doubt that the fire at the Naval Air Station, Nowra, was a severe blow to our defence capabilities at the time. The Government was able quickly to replace the aircraft. I wish to acknowledge that this action would not have been possible without the prompt and most generous assistance of the United States Government and the United States Navy. In all, the estimated value of the hangar, aircraft and equipment lost amounted to nearly $9m. The cost to replace the aircraft and equipment, which has already been announced, is estimated at nearly $7m. It is pertinent to remind honourable members that the Naval Air Station at Nowra is an extensive and complex facility. Its primary functions are to provide a base for the operational squadrons for HMAS  Melbourne  when disembarked, for training squadrons and for Fleet requirements; to provide organisational and intermediate level maintenance and support for naval aircraft; and to provide operational training for air crew and to provide ground training for maintenance personnel. In addition to normal naval operational and training flying, the Naval Air Station meets demands for search and rescue and aid to the civil community. The Commanding Officer of the Naval Air Station is also responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Jervis Bay airfield and the missile range. In all he commands nearly 2000 people and at the time of the fire there were 61 aircraft at his Station. The Naval Air Station and the Jervis Bay target services group have consistently maintained high standards in meeting their flying, maintenance and training commitments. 
It could be argued that fault lay in the system where physical improvements to security that had been requested were not provided. I do not share this view entirely as it was within local authority to make alternative arrangements pending the introduction of improvements. In any case, it will always remain extremely difficult to prevent the irrational action of a person from within one's own organisation. These points do not excuse the unsatisfactory state of security which existed at the Naval Air Station at the time of the fire and I do not condone or underestimate the faults and inadequacies that this inquiry has exposed. In the face of the fire itself, the performance of that Station's personnel stands very much to their credit. To enter the hangar and to approach the heat of the fiercely burning fire demanded great courage, a courage shown by many that night. A number of young and inexperienced sailors fought the fire to the point of collapse and after revival continued to volunteer for further duty. Others, well aware of the dangers of the operation, hazarded their lives to remove aircraft from the hangar even to the point of re-entering the burning building after being ordered to leave as the roof might further collapse. Personally, I commend them and believe that honourable members would join me in this. As a result of their actions 16 personnel are being considered for appropriate awards. 
The most significant lesson from this unfortunate affair is that the security of valuable defence assets rests primarily in the hands of the users. Commanding officers must guard their assets as thoroughly as they have been trained to use them. But it is the personal and continual watchfulness of every officer and man that is our foremost defence for the security of our assets. The Chiefs of the three Services share my views in this regard whole-heartedly, and immediately following the fire they took steps to improve security awareness and training on the part of all members of the defence force. While the conclusions indicated that there was much that could be done to improve security by way of modern protection devices, firefighting equipment and provision of security personnel, all these must be weighed against competing demands for limited defence resources of money and manpower. It is a delicate matter of judgment to determine just what proportion of our resources should be devoted to what might be regarded as an insurance premium. 
The fire at the Naval Air Station, Nowra, has caused me deep concern. I say that with all bluntness. That such valuable equipment should have been destroyed in such a manner is deplorable. That security procedures were not properly observed, and in some respects were inadequate, cannot be excused. They will not be excused. As the Minister responsible I acknowledge to the Parliament the clear and ultimate responsibility I hold in this most unhappy sequence of events. The Nowra fire experience has not been dealt with in isolation. Misfortune can be a harsh tutor. The report of the Board has been closely studied. Where appropriate, the lessons of the Nowra fire will be sternly followed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Rear Admiral B. J. Castles, CBE was the Chief of Naval Technical Services during the period 15 March 1969 to 21 July 1972 and would have had responsibility for the DDL team without being a member of it. 
After extensive study by an Interdepartmental Committee of several systems available, a Rolls Royce propulsion system was recommended for the DDL as the most appropriate. 
B. J. Castles and Associates, Consulting Engineers, were appointed as consultants for marine engineering matters to Rolls Royce from 25 August 1972 to 31 December 1976. 
B. J. Castles is the Australian representative of SOFREXAN a French agency involved in the overseas marketing of Naval Materiel, including ships, built by the French Government owned shipbuilder, Direction Techniques des Constructions Navale (DTCN). 
On 4 February 1977, Direction Techniques des Constructions Navale was awarded a contract for a Project Definition Study for the supply of an Underway Replenishment Ship to the Royal Australian Navy. Contractual arrangements for this Study were negotiated directly between the Australian Government and DTCN 
Assistance to the Arts  (Question No. 791) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures shown in the following tables for employment in the Defence Central Complex comprise employment in all Departmental elements, wherever located, other than those directly controlled by the Service Chiefs of Staff. The figures include service and civilian personnel in overseas posts except those in Defence aid, co-operation or loan appointments 
I ) Number* of First, Second and Third Division Public Servants at 30 April 1 977 Employed in: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Naval personnel on ships travelling overseas are subject to normal Australia Post/International postal rates for the respective postal zones in which the ships are deployed. There have been no increases in Australian postal rates since 1 September 1975. Exceptions are naval personnel on ships attached to the Five Power Force in Malaysia and Singapore who are eligible for concessional rates of postage. Also under a reciprocal arrangement with the U.K. Government Australian naval personnel on duty in the U.K. are allowed concessional rates of postage on mail. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 1003, Weekly  Hansard  of 2 June 1977. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No.  1015) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The basic cost of S2G aircraft was effectively unchanged from that of the S2E, and was estimated at $US93,000. 
The cost of installed electronics and avionics in the S2G was included in the basic aircraft price and the same would have applied to S2E aircraft had they been bought on the same 'as-is, where-is' basis. Additional avionics are being bought for the S2G aircraft to replace systems previously removed by the USN. Provision of $US2.5m has been included in the Replacement Tracker Project to cover procurement of these items. 
The differences in avionics and other equipment between S2E and S2G aircraft are as follows: 
I would be happy to consult the Leader of the House and seek to facilitate a general debate on defence. I excuse myself from seeking to explain some of the criticism that has been launched against the figure given by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech concerning the defence vote. One would need to summon in aid one of the most accomplished witch doctors of Africa to explain that criticism. I shall give the facts as I understand them. Defence expenditure in 1976-77 was $2, 182m. That figure is expressed in December 1976 prices. Expressed in May 1977 prices that figure is $2,320m. The Budget now aims to spend for 1977-78 $2,343m. That is a difference of $23m, which is the equivalent of one per cent real growth. That is precisely what the Treasurer had to say. 
The answer is yes. Precisely how that could be done is a matter for some consideration. My expectation is that in the course of the next two weeks I will be able to put down a statement on defence. Possibly the information which I provided to the honourable gentleman will be put by way of annexure to that statement. I will give consideration to it and inform my honourable friend. 
While I am on my feet,  Sir, could  I have your indulgence and that of the House to say that it is the honourable member's seventieth birthday today? Taking one look at the honourable gentleman I am sure that if he asked, in his usual courteous way, he would get an extension of time. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-by leave- I thank the House. I am the oldest member in number of years, but in number of years of service I think I am only third. Looking around, may I be relieved of the obligation of saying whether I am glad or sorry not to have the responsibility of being the father of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(0- 
$ 1 8,000 based on a contract price of $4,500 per quarterly issue; 
approximately $1,200 for postage and cartage, based on the bulk of distribution being handled by Department and Service means. 
21,000. 
Federal and State Parliamentarians, metropolitan and provincial Press, libraries, ex-Service organisations, and Defence and Service personnel. 

one journalist and one designer, each with a part-time involvement; 
one clerk and two clerical assistants, each having two days involvement per issue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Members of the Defence Force are required to pay the same rent for housing of similar quality, regardless of its location. This is an important principle of the Defence Group Rent Scheme which was introduced in April 1976. Under the previous arrangements rents varied considerably both within and between localities with the result that some Servicemen found that they were required to pay higher rents for poorer quality houses when they were transferred. 
Servicemen are housed in many localities ranging from inner city suburbs to remote areas. It is not possible to make allowance in rent fixation for all of these situations. In specified remote areas, however, a district allowance is payable. 
Naval Deployments in the Indian Ocean (Question No. 1204) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Soviet ship deployments into the Indian Ocean for the period Jan 1976- June 1977 (incl) are shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) On 19 April 1977I issued a statement explaining that the DFRDB reversionary benefits arrangements were to be modified to bring them into line with the generally more beneficial provisions of the CPS superannuation scheme, including the non-cessation of widows' pensions on their re-marriage. 
Amending legislation to give effect to the changes is expected to be introduced during the current parliamentary session. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Woomera Village is pan of the Woomera Prohibited Area which is under the control of the Director Weapons Research Establishment (WRE) Salisbury, South Australia. Political candidates desiring to campaign in the Woomera Village area should apply to the Director, Woomera Research Establishment, for permission to enter the Village. 
Permits to enter the prohibited area specify certain requirements in regard to possession of firearms, explosives and ammunition, cameras and photographic material, radio transmitting receiving and recording apparatus, etc. Otherwise there are no security constraints upon visitors. Access to the technical areas of the Woomera Range is not of course permitted. 
May I take a moment or two to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this motion. I sat in the Parliament with Leslie Haylen, together with some remaining colleagues such as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  Even though on occasions we were at the receiving end of his irreverence and his wit the honourable gentleman was one who did not take his partisan views outside this chamber. He was a magnificent companion.  His  wit was elegant; it was ready. There was no malice in his being at all. He once complained that I was in the wrong political party. I have heard that complaint come from my own side of politics. The honourable gentleman gave as much as he took. He did it in a magnificent parliamentary style. One of my regrets is that Parliament today has lost a number of characters. There is a disposition by many people outside to think that every person who comes into this place should be taken from the one mould. Well, Leslie Haylen was taken from one mould but they broke it after he was born. 
I recall on one occasion twitting him in a speech that he was using phrases made up on the spur of a fortnight ago. He just laughed at me. I recall that in the same debate when Haylen was in full flight- when Haylen was in full flight that honourable gentleman was talking- during a moment's pause one of my colleagues said to him: 'The honourable gentleman should be in the circus'. Haylen, without batting an eyelid, turned to him and said: 'And if I were, I assure the honourable gentleman that he would be fed at the right time'. It is a matter of regret to me that the honourable gentleman has passed from this world. To his wife and family I extend my very deep sympathy. This world has lost a warm, wonderful Australian character. Another world has gained one. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No. Calculation of an expected implicit deflator for defence expenditure requires an estimate in 'outturn' prices.TheBudgetestimatefordefencespendingisbased argely on prices and wages ruling at the time the estimate was made, namely in May 1977, and does not purport to be an estimate in 'outturn' prices. There is a bulk allowance of $90m included in the Budget estimates for prospective increases in wages and salaries during 1977-78 which includes defence; where appropriate, supplementation will be sought in Additional Estimates for other cost increases. 
and (4) See answers to Questions (1) and (2). The estimates provide for an increase of one per cent in total defence expenditure in real terms in 1977-78. Details of the composition of defence expenditure- at May 1977 price and wage levels-are set out in Statement No. 3 attached to the Budget Speech (pages 41-44). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The reasons for the apparent discrepancies are as follows: 
The figures shown for civilian employment in the Depanment of Defence in response to Senate Question No. 997 of 8 De-ember 1976 referred to terminal strengths as at the end of June each year for total civilian employment within the Depanment of Defence. 
The figures shown in the Budget papers referred to average strengths throughout each financial year and only to that civilian employment which is charged against civilian salaries appropriations within the Defence vote. Employees whose salaries are charged against other appropriations or to trust accounts are excluded, as are certain in-operative staff. 
I will do my best. I regret that the honourable member for Oxley is not with us; I understand he is ill. I wish him a speedy recovery. I hope he will soon be back with us. If I can take the House into my confidence, may I tell the House that the honourable member for Oxley and I went to the same school. Fortunately we did not go to the same school together; that would have been too much for the school. The honourable member for Oxley has always had trouble with sums. He once sat for an examination in mental arithmetic and got 7 and a half marks out of 100. 
Far be it from me to wrestle with the problem of tutoring the honourable gentleman in the matter of economics. But in calculating implicit price deflators one takes not current prices, but out-turn figures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are 95 libraries in my Department and Defence Force. The activities of the majority of these libraries are coordinated by the Defence Information Services Branch which also provides centralised services. The main purpose of each individual library is to meet the reference and information needs of the establishment which it serves. In addition to local requirements, the Defence Central and regional libraries are intended to provide support to the small branch libraries and to minimise duplication of more expensive material. Recreational requirements are met only for Service personnel in isolated locations. Many Defence libraries hold only very small collections and are tended on a part time basis by junior staff. 
A complete list of Defence libraries and their locations follows. 
by leave- In November last year I tabled a White Paper on 'Australian Defence'. That White Paper was a declaration of the Government's aims and intentions with respect to the defence of this country. The paper remains the basic reference for discussion of our national defence. However, the issues with which defence policy is concerned are not static. They are constantly developing and we must keep them under continuing review and ensure that our defence planning is responsive. I do not propose to cover aU of the matters discussed in the White Paper. What I propose to do is to set out shortly some views on contemporary and prospective defence issues. 
The 1977-78 defence budget outlay of $2,343m is an increase of one per cent in real terms over actual outlay in 1976-77. 1 say at once that this outlay represents a departure from the provisional allocations projected in the White Paper. It was inevitable that this be so. Honourable members will understand that the Government's strategy for national economic recovery from inflation requires that expenditure in the public sector be contained. There will be some selective postponement of some of the objectives we set for ourselves last November. But the stated objectives in the White Paper of what defence capabilities we intend this country to have in sight in the early 1 980s remain. 
In considering the Government's expenditure on defence for this year I hope that it will not be lost from sight that the year 1976-77 saw a significant real increase in defence outlay. Having regard to that, a one per cent increase in real terms shows the importance the Government attaches to defence. Viewed against the difficult budgetary circumstances which faced the Government this year, a one per cent increase in real terms represents a notable achievement. I shall shortly give details of the new equipment and defence facilities decisions made by the Government in the context of the 1977-78 Budget. These are most important components of our long term defence preparedness and the Government is determined to ensure that new investment in these areas is sustained at an acceptable level. 
The nation's security must always command a high priority on its resources. This does not mean that in peace we must be fully prepared for war. But it does mean that in peace we must maintain the manpower, equipment, skills and supporting infrastructure that will allow us to be ready in time to defend ourselves should this ever become necessary. This means the maintenance of a substantial force-in-being even in time of peace. The price of this effort is unavoidably high, and increasing. But it is not so high as the cost of defence neglect would inevitably be. 
The development of the force is an intensely selective process. It engages a wide range of technical, scientific and professional skills and experience in a highly complex process of analysis, evaluation and judgment involving ultimately the advice of the Government's most senior Service and civilian advisers and detailed consideration by the Government itself. Our judgments as to requirements and priorities are also informed by the ongoing consultations that we enjoy with our allies and friends on strategic, scientific, technological and military matters. If some commentators have found the process too complex and difficult to grasp, as they have, I sympathise. We go to great lengths to ensure that our decisions are soundly based and balance differences of interest and professional judgment. 
Our major review of the international security outlook last year noted certain unfavourable developments and the uncertainty of the future, but we judged our prospects on balance to be favourable. Developments since then which have been closely watched by our intelligence community and by our senior Service and civilian advisers do not call for change in our basic assessment, however, we must keep developments under continuous, close review and maintain insurance against changes that might be adverse to our interests. 
Our present peace-time strategy is to support as best we may over a range of policies the continuation of the presently favourable prospects for our national security; to maintain effective defence relations with our friends and allies, especially the United States and in our neighbouring regions; and to maintain a substantial and efficient force-in-being that demonstrates our military capability to deal with situations that could develop with short warning and to expand in time should the need for this arise during the longer term. 
A clearly perceived threat would enable defence planning and development to proceed in a specific way. That is not our circumstance. We study contingencies and from this study, together with other factors, we can derive judgments about the development of the Defence Force and the defence infrastructure. Contingencies are hypothetical situations, not probabilities. But, as in many other countries, the study of a representative selection, with different timings and characteristics, helps our defence planners to explore strategic and operational concepts, requirements for military capabilities, questions of command and control and such matters. 
In recent years, such contingency studies in our Department of Defence have focused on the defence of Australia. I stress that. The House will not expect me to give an account of these studies, since obviously they must command a high security classification. But I should correct some false impressions that appear in some commentaries. As the studies progress, certain conclusions provide a broad basis for the development of strategic and operational concepts to deal with specific situations. But we are not going to produce a single, final answer to all our problems. The studies are manifold and involve continuing exploration of our defence problems in the light of strategic developments, changing technology and infrastructure, and changes over the years in the defence force itself. 
Some comment has seemed to be calling for some particular threat to be adopted as the basis for our defence development. To do so would sacrifice flexibility and versatility. What we need is a mix of capabilities against various possibilities, none of which can now be foreseen with sufficient confidence to allow the sort of specific defence planning called for. 
What the mix should be- allowing for strategic prospects, for the long lead-time of larger equipments, for technological developments and, always, the state of the country's purse- is a matter for analysis and judgement. But a mix there must be, of high and low capabilities, if on the day, this country is going to be able to deploy a balanced force to meet a serious emergency, or to cope with a range of diverse lesser situations. Our requirements in this respect as we now see them are the capabilities and planning objectives that are described in the White Paper. As well as the strategic matters I have referred to, we also take into consideration factors of our physical environment, technological developments and developments in methods of waging war. 
When it comes to technology a country like Australia has to be highly selective. Not only can advanced technology be very expensive to buy; it can be more suited to the requirements of powers in very different strategic circumstances from Australia. At the same time, however, advanced technology can often offer us important advantages, for example in greatly increased accuracy of firepower. We must also be able to move to higher levels of technology should this become necessary, and be able to operate together with the advanced systems of allies. 
As to methods of waging war, we enjoy close contact with the military forces of various nations, which helps us to keep informed on developments in military doctrine and operational practice. This is of great value. But, as with technology, we have to watch that we gear our development primarily to our own requirements and not to those of other nations differently placed. There is a great temptation for some observers of the defence scene to say: Country X does so-and-so therefore we should follow suit'. This is an extraordinarily simplistic approach to Australia's defence problems. We are concerned primarily with our own country, and the solutions that may be applicable to other nations may not necessarily satisfy our requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have noted with interest the recommendation in the report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled 'The Middle East-Focal Point of Conflict' that Australian Defence Attaches be posted to some Middle East countries. 
This recommendation is under study in the Department of Defence in the context of a more comprehensive review of Defence representation overseas which is now in progress. This review is of the type which the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure recommended in its report on Australia's Overseas Representation of May 1 977 should take place biennially for all departments. 
Bearing in mind the need for restraint in the growth of departmental staffs overseas- a need recognised by the Standing Committee on Expenditure- all proposals for new or increased Defence representation overseas must be assessed on the basis of their importance compared with other Defence requirements for overseas representation. The recommendations of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence with regard to representation in the Middle East are being assessed on this basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) There have been several investigations on the disposal of the debris which resulted from the series of British atomic tests and experiments at the Maralinga area. This debris includes plutonium. 
After the series had been concluded, the areas involved were cleaned up in 1967 by the British to comply with standards set by the Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee (AWTSC) - an Australian body. This debris was disposed of in various ways, including storage in steel and lead boxes, burial in pits, covering with massive concrete slabs, ploughing in, and fencing and area control. Detailed records were kept of all burials. 
The AWTSC reported to the Prime Minister of the time that they were 'satisfied Maralinga was radiologically safe. Permanent and unrestricted access could be made to all but a few small areas and even they could be occupied on a short term basis without risk. ' 
A further inquiry by the Committee in 1972 confirmed the 1967 level of confidence. 
Periodic checks continue. My colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, announced on 9 August 1 977 that a scientific study under the guidance of the Australian Ionizing Radiation Advisory Council had commenced on the possible dispersal of radioactive material in the Maralinga area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, and the problems of surveillance of a 200 nautical mile maritime resources zone, should one be declared, have been the subject of detailed and on-going investigations both within the Department of Defence and in conjunction with other departments. 
The Defence Forces do already possess many of the elements necessary for surveillance of a 200 nautical mile zone and any examination of additional defence resources necessary to meet this commitment must await an assessment made in the light of operational experience under the new regime, and of Government policy on the role of the Department of Defence in overall surveillance. 
and (3) My Department has recently received a letter from a  Mr Reynolds  of Aerospace Development (London) Ltd regarding the use of airships for surveillance. Whilst developments in airship technology are being monitored, in the absence of a clearly perceived Australian military requirement for airships, my Department must maintain a watching brief only in this field of technology. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No such term as 'red alert' is in general use in the Australian Defence Force, although it is possible that some units or individuals use it colloquially to imply a high state of readiness. 
In any case there has been no occasion during the last 10 years when the Australian Armed Forces have been brought to the state of readiness implied by the term. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present method of salary fixation for females in the Defence Force provides for equal pay where it has been established that men and women do perform equal work. Thus equal pay applies in respect of male and female medical and dental officers and nursing officers of equal rank. Male and female members at private level also receive equal pay according to skill category. 
The percentages of the male rate received by those members referred to who are not in receipt of equal pay are: 
Female non-commissioned officers receive the full private rate plus a margin for rank of about 80 per cent of the male rank margin. This '80 per cent' formula applied to the NCO rank margin and to officers represents a general statement of the situation. It does not mean that this formula is applied rigidly in every case when adjusting salary rates for females in the 
Defence Force. For example, equal increases are applied to men and women when national wage case increases are extended to the Defence Force. 
Corporal- 99 per cent. 
Sergeant-98 per cent. 
Commissioned officers- 80 per cent of the male common scale rates for equivalent rank. 
Salary is determined by both rank and task performed. 
Rank denotes the level of responsibility. As in any hierarchically structured organisation higher rank confers increasing responsibility and consequently higher salary. 
Different salary structures, however, have been determined for different groups. This is due to perceived differences in the work performed and its value in relation to broadly similar groups m the community. 
The whole question of pay fixation for female members of the Defence Force, including the question of equal pay, is currently under consideration by the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Yes. Preliminary disposal action including arranging of discussion with the Peak Union Councils concerned is being undertaken by the Minister for Productivity. 
Although the Australian Government Engine Works is part of the defence factory group administered by the Minister for Productivity, its mam activity has been the manufacture of marine diesel engines for the commercial shipbuilding industry and associated engine repair work. Virtually none of the output has been for defence. Over recent years, the Engine Works has required a significant and increasing subsidy from defence outlay. In the absence of a viable commercial workload, there is no alternative defence workload to allow operations to continue. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) There are no Australian Service personnel based in Northern Ireland. 
There are at any one time several hundred Service personnel on duty in Great Britain, Their numbers are continually changing. 
Australian Service personnel are sent to Great Britain for training or to gain experience in specific tasks. Generally they are sent under three separate categories: 
Officers and men from all three Australian Services undertake specialised trade or career training in Great Britain at Service training establishments. 
Australian officers and non-commissioned officers are exchanged on an individual basis with British counterparts. These exchanges span many specialised fields and the normal posting is for two years. 
Approximately 90 Australian Army, and 30 New Zealand Army officers and men, are exchanged annually with their British Army counterparts in Exercise 'Long Look'. This exercise lasts for four months, usually August to December. Appointments involved embrace many fields. 
The above arrangements would not release British Servicemen for duty in Northern Ireland. 
The essential purpose of such deployments is to provide training and experience for Australian personnel in countries with which we have close and long standing arrangements. Opportunities to achieve such training are judged against the practical benefits which they confer upon the Australian Defence Force. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 'Outturn prices' is a term which is used widely to describe the price basis of particular expenditure estimates. Some Budget estimates are at 'present' or 'constant' prices- i.e. they do not allow for prospective increases in prices- while others are at estimated 'outturn prices'- i.e. they include allowances for prospective increases in prices during the period in question. As I indicated in my answer to question No. 1295, the Budget estimate for defence spending is based largely on prices and wages ruling at the time the estimate was made, namely in May 1977, and does not purport to be an estimate in 'outturn prices. ' 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903 I present the report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1 February 1976 to 31 January 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Investigations within my Department have revealed no case of refusal of an application by a member of the Army Reserve for leave to meet his required training commitments; nor is my Department aware of such a refusal by any other Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The flight on 8 March 1977 by a Mystere aircraft of No. 34 Squadron from Canberra to Richmond and return was a training flight to carry out instrument approaches and circuits at Richmond. 
Departure Fairbairn 3 p.m., arrival Richmond 3.4S p.m., departure Richmond 4.10 p.m., arrival Fairbairn, S.0S p.m. 
Two squadron servicing personnel were carried from Canberra to Richmond and return. One was a Sergeant General Hand and the other a Sergeant Equipment. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All civil salary costs are debited to appropriations within the Defence vote. Most salary costs are debited to civil salary appropriations comprising divisions 232, 238 and 241 to which question No. 1255  (Hansard,  20 September 1977, page 1360) was directed. 
Average employment levels for divisions 232, 238 and 24 1 reflect the number of employees receiving salary paid under these divisions. 
Average employment levels and salary costs debited to other appropriations within the Defence vote are excluded from divisions 232, 238 and 241. 
Inoperative staff are defined as those employees who are on extended leave for twelve weeks or more for the following reasons: 
1 ) sick leave; 
leave without pay; 
3 ) long service leave; 
maternity leave; 
compensation; and 
other leave. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the Defence Report 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. But once a member's service is terminated he is no longer bound to comply. 
No. 
The period which elapsed after retirement before these officers took up business appointments is not known. There is no requirement for such information for Air Force purposes. 
No Air Force posts are designated special or of a technical character for the purpose of the Air Force Order. 
There is no requirement for records to be held in Air Office regarding acceptance of business appointments after retirement. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. There is no requirement in Naval Regulations for naval officers to seek approval to accept business appointments. 
There is no requirement in Naval Regulations for officers to advise Navy Office of their intention to take up business appointments or to advise the date of commencement of such employment. The information is therefore not available from departmental records. 
No investigation has been made by me or by my Department on this matter. 

 Mr H. W. Fancher: Discussions with Government Officials (Question No. 1229) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A contract worth about $3.4m for these craft has been awarded to North Queensland Engineers and Agents for the supply of 22 work boats; the $4.7m quoted represents the total project cost of introducing these boats into service. 
In April 1976 Australian and New Zealand firms in tendering for the supply of work boats were invited to register interest covering three options, namely: to a naval design package commercial design unaltered slightly modified commercial design and incorporating Navy supplied engines. 
Tenders were clearly advised that proposals submitted on the basis of a commercial design would be evaluated against proposals received for the supply of craft to the Naval design in aluminium. 
Tenderers were also advised that direct price comparison, economy of operation and other cost effective factors would all be considered in making a selection. 
Following an exhaustive evaluation of all tenders received covering all options it was decided that the offer by North Queensland Engineers and Agents would provide the Navy and Army with craft which met all requirements and particularly would be the most suitable for operating in the arduous service environment. 
The approach adopted sought the widest possible response from tenderers and did exclude consideration of any design or construction material. 
Navy's past experience with small GRP (fibreglass) boats indicated that it is not the most suitable material for the arduous duties planned for the twelve metre craft. However, by not excluding GRP from the tender schedule the possibility of Navy benefiting from technological development in the field was retained. 
None of the GRP designs offered had qualities which met the Navy requirements for hull construction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following an exhaustive examination of all available options the Government commissioned a project definition study of two proven patrol craft to determine the one which would satisfy the Royal Australian Navy's requirement for coastal patrol and surveillance work. 
Both craft meet the Navy's requirements for speed and endurance and have superior speed, range and seakeeping qualities to the existing Attack class vessel which they will eventually replace. The RAN's capability for coastal patrol will be considerably enhanced and will not in any way be confined to a surveillance role only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The requirement for a proven vessel was stated when tenders were invited for new patrol craft for the Royal Australian Navy. 
Brooke-Marine's offer of a close variant of their proven 37.5m design meets this requirement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
a. (i) devaluation and exchange rate changes amount to $45. 1 m; (ii) prices escalated by $26m. 
other reasons $ 1 3m. 
Army and Navy Work-boats  (Question No. 1734) 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
By allowing aU designs and material types, the widest possible response from tenderers was available and did not exclude the opportunity for the Commonwealth to benefit from technological development. 
Navy's past experience with small craft indicates aluminium hulls are preferable to conventional fibreglass hulls for the duties planned for the 12 metre craft. However, none of the fibreglass designs offered had qualities which met the Navy requirement for hull construction necessary for the arduous duties planned for these craft 
Thirteen of the craft will be employed in support of diving operations. For this role the increased manoeuvrability and reliability provided by twin screw craft was considered highly desirable as it gives an improved degree of safety. 
The Navy design included this feature and tenderers of commercial boats were advised they would be in competition with tenders for the Navy design. 
Yes. Sizes range from 26 to 33 feet in length and were built in Victoria and Western Australia. They are not used as work boats. 
The tender of North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pry Ltd meets the tender requirements for the Navy designed boat. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Details of my Department's capital works expenditure authorised through the Department of Construction in the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson for each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Additional payments made to overseas suppliers under contracts for the procurement of capital equipment resulting from the Government's decision in November 1976 to devalue the Australian dollar and subsequent fluctuations in the exchange rate amounted to $A20.169m in the period to 30 June 1977. 
International Airlines: Operations on Domestic Routes  (Question No. 1600) 
No, I am far from satisfied as to the adequacy of surveillance of Australian waters, and neither is the Government satisfied. As a consequence of that dissatisfaction, the Government has appointed a committee of permanent heads to advise the Government as to the steps which may be taken to improve our surveillance capacity with respect to this country. I welcome the honourable gentleman's question. If I may say so, it is reflective of the sustained interest he has taken in this issue. May I also say that I appreciate the debate which is now taking place in the community. However, I should say that I hope there will be some reasonable perception of the difficulties associated with surveillance. 
I shall give two quick illustrations of those difficulties. Taking a line say from Cairns to Broome, there are approximately 3,000 miles of coastline. Within the area north of that line there are more than 300 registered airfields. I suspect that there would be more than twice that number of unregistered airfields. To detect low flying aircraft within that area at least 100 radar stations would be needed. That is for detection alone. Then there is the problem of identification and, further to that, the problem of apprehension. 
I ask the House to reflect on the sum of money that would be involved in that. Some people have said: 'Well, you cannot even detect refugee boats coming from Vietnam'. I invite the House to consider this matter: The area of water that could be traversed by Vietnamese boats from Timor to Darwin or from the Roti Island group into the Kimberleys is about 30,000 square miles and to sustain a 90 per cent detection probability over that area we would need to have one Orion aircraft on station 24 hours a day. After a few quick sums and looking at the proposed EEZexclusive economic zone- it can be appreciated that we could be looking at an area of water covering 2,500,000 square miles. As a consequence, if we are to use Orion aircraft for the purpose of surveillance- I suggest that is not their primary role- we would be looking for approximately 300 Orions and at a cost of $ 12m each this would involve a pretty tidy sum of money. I know that my powers of persuasion are pretty limited, even though I have managed to remain in this place for 23 years, but I do not think I have Buckley's chance of coaxing that sum of money out of the Treasurer. 
It has taken the honourable member a long time to make that admission. The last thing I would say is this: What I think is the best prospect for surveillance in this country is the see-over-the-horizon radar known as Jindalee. I have sought to encourage that project. It has shown most encouraging results and if those results can be furthered and the device improved this country will be saved from expending huge sums of money to ensure that surveillance is, to use the honourable member's description, adequate. 
I know the honourable gentlemen's concern for the future of the Army Survey Regiment. To the best of my knowledge, there is no proposal at all to move the Survey Regiment. The work done by it at Bendigo is of a very high quality. I know the continuing interest the honourable gentleman takes in it. That is the simple position. I hope that the honourable gentleman will seek to give such reassurances as are appropriate to the citizens of Bendigo. 

 Mr Speaker, while I am on my feet may I have your indulgence to wish the right honourable member for Lowe a very happy birthday. Today is his 70th birthday. I think he is a splendid illustration of the old maxim: 'There may be snow on the roof but a fire burns brightly down below '. 
Yes, I have read the Press report and I should like to inform the honourable gentleman that the question of acquiring airborne early-warning aircraft has been considered by the Department. The aircraft to which the honourable gentleman has referred has a very distinct defence role to play. I have asked for an assessment to be made as to whether, in a non-defence surveillance situation, that aircraft would have any role to play. The honourable gentleman has referred to an estimate that I gave to the House last week on the acquisition of Orion aircraft. I gave that figure merely to try to put some perspective into the debate on surveillance. The honourable gentleman has said that the Grumman aircraft is much cheaper than the Orion. It is a magnificent piece of equipment but it comes at a magnificent price. It costs about $40m a copy. 
We will need to run more than a barbecue to raise that amount of money. The manufacturer has given an illustration of the capability of this aircraft. One operational order given is to detect, track and classify all ships and aircraft in an area out of Darwin and in another area out of Townsville. In order to fulfil the requirement to work from those two areas, with each aircraft on station to be maintained for 90 days, five aircraft would be needed; or for 30 days four aircraft would be needed. I mention those figures not to pre-empt any decision the Government may make with respect to the Permanent Heads Committee but to give some perspective, I trust, to the enormous cost to the nation if we conduct coastline surveillance in an adequate way. I hope that all honourable gentlemen will recognise that.  Mr Speaker,  may I have your indulgence to read from a debate - 
I do not abuse the patience of this House. A debate on surveillance was conducted in the House of Lords some two years ago. Lord Ritchie-Calder had this to say: 
I wonder how many have ever tried to look at the map which demonstrates what 200-mile limits mean. We have the longest coastline in Europe - 
That is, Britain-  and we are extending that seawards by 200 miles. Taking into consideration the kind of things we are talking about  here, a coastline of that length would mean setting up a command such as we had during the war to look after Western approaches. 
I think that statement brings into sharper perspective the problems that this country faces. 
Yes, I have seen the reports. If I may say, with due respect, they seem to me to be highly fanciful. The Royal Australian Air Force at Amberley has been using the Eagle Farm air traffic control radar for many years. Indeed, it used that radar until about August 1977. Because a new type of radar, namely SURAD, was installed and there was a shortage of spares, Amberley temporarily dispensed with the use of SURAD radar and went back to using the old system. To put the matter into some perspective I say to my honourable friend that in a real sense the introduction or installation of SURAD radar at Amberley RAAF base is extremely welcome but could be looked at as something that in terms of priority could be done without. I suppose one could give all sorts of illustrations of that proposition. But that is the essence of the matter. For the next few months the RAAF Amberley base will revert to using the Eagle Farm air traffic control radar system, a system which the Amberley base has used for many, many years. The honourable gentlemen will be aware that the distance in a straight line between the Amberley base and Eagle Farm is of the order of 16 or 18 miles, which is quite within the capability of the Eagle Farm air traffic control radar. 
Those reports arose out of evidence given yesterday, I understand, before  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Williams, who is sitting in Darwin as a royal commissioner inquiring into drug activity. The evidence was along the lines that come 8 p.m. the call is 'Shut her down, Ernie. We are going home', and that the radar does not operate after that. That simply is not true. Radar operates at Darwin 24 hours a day, seven days a week. I hope my honourable friend will understand that, and I hope the Australian people who are concerned about surveillance activities will understand that also. What happens simply is this: Between the hours of 8 p.m. and 6 a.m., when there is very little traffic in the area, the man who is responsible for the tower control takes over the responsibility of viewing the radar display. That is the simple situation. I hasten to correct any vision that the man there is being driven into a state of exhaustion by his duties. The simple fact is that between the hours of 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. one man is watching both the control and approach displays on the one radar screen. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to the article to which the honourable member referred. The first observation I wish to make is this: There has been some suggestion to the effect that there should be a law of sorts against former senior servicemen entering the employ of private companies or public companies that stand in some contractual relationship with the government of the day. For myself, I should imagine it to be a rather fanciful pursuit that such a law should seek to be enacted. I frankly take the view that it would be disturbing in terms of people who respect the traditions of freedom. But beyond that, I have the gravest of doubts as to whether any such law could be enacted. Hence I side with the Prime Minister that there should be a code of ethics. I think that is about as far as the matter can be pressed. 
But I say to the honourable gentleman and to the House on the specific point that in the procurement of  major  defence equipment in this country, some 15  malor  steps must be taken from the time that there is, shall I say, the first glint in the eye - 
What a pity your father got one. There are some 15 major steps from the first glint in the eye until the equipment is purchased. A whole series of committees stand between the would-be supplier and the country- and I speak of the country in its corporate sense. I take the view that there are probably few countries in the world as well served in the preservation of the integrity of civil servants in the matter of defence procurement as is Australia under its existing defence procurement system. There are four major committees through which an order is processed. The last committee before the matter goes to the Minister of the day, whoever he may be, or to the Cabinet, no matter of what kidney the government may be, is the Defence Force Development Committee which consists of the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the Chiefs of Staff. I am sure that I voice the views of every person sitting in this Parliament when I say that it would be absurd in the extreme to think that a committee of that nature would be exposed to, or would be vulnerable in the least to, any blandishment that could be offered by any company in this country. 
I will see what information is available and provide it to the honourable gentleman. I invite him to reflect on the fact that if this country could perceive a threat, defence planning would be made that much easier. The difficulty of contemporary Australian defence planning lies in the fact that, whereas there is no clearly perceived threat, clearly the country must take into account all sorts of contingencies. They range from being immediately practical and real to those that may be distant. 
-The only threat that I have had in my life from the honourable gentleman is 23 years of his company, and I am trying to recover from it. 
For the information of honourable members I present details of special flights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1 March 1977 to 31 December 1977. Copies of this report are available from the Table Office. 
-Between 1962 and 1972, eight Honeywell computers were installed within the then various defence departments- the Department of Defence, the old Service departments and the Department of Supply. In 1 972 the Defence (Administration) Committee resolved that the existing computers were inadequate for the task which lay in prospect, namely, the reorganisation of the departments. In addition, the burden of work cast upon those eight Honeywell computers made the computers not suited to give an adequate response. As a result of open tender, Univac Computer Systems was selected. It was hoped that the Univac computers would have been installed, I am informed, by 1977. For a variety of reasons, not the least being the reorganisation of the defence departmentsany move made before then would have pre-empted the decision of this Parliament- they were not installed. 
My friend will understand that the Honeywell computers were to be phased out while the Univac computers were installed. A Univac computer has been installed, but regrettably it has not been found possible for the second Univac computer to be installed. Threatened with the maintenance of the computers, some of which, as my friend will acknowledge, are now somewhat aged, the only decision open to the Department was to seek to obtain a refurbished Honeywell computer to tide it over until such time as the other Univac computer came into play. My understanding is that there are significant technical differences between the Honeywell computer capacity and the Univac computer capacity. I will see what detail is available, and I will provide my honourable friend with that information.  Mr Speaker,  it remains only for me to say that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, I have never met an employee of Univac in my life and, to the best of knowledge and belief, I am not aware of any employee of Honeywell being a member of the Queensland Irish Club. 
I can give the honourable gentleman the assurance that funds are available for the day-to-day functioning of the three armed Services. If the honourable gentleman has in mind some particular happening and will furnish me with details of which he is aware and of which I am not aware, I will investigate the matter promptly and provide him with an answer. 
I take the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first. The answer is no. In assessing the demands for the Australian Army Reserve in a year, the Department of Defence works on the basis that some 36 days will occupy one Army reservist. The honourable gentleman will appreciate that in some areas he will find a greater display of enthusiasm with respect to Reserve activities than in others, and adjustments must be made between and among the various Reserve areas. That is done. It was drawn to my attention by one of our colleagues in Western Australia that a very significant demand had been made upon Reserve training, so much so that funds were not immediately available to meet that demand. Funds were subsequently transferred. 
The Whitlam Government and the Government led by my right honourable friend the Prime Minister have implemented most of the recommendations of the Millar Committee's report. Speaking from memory and subject to correction, only some two or three of the recommendations made by  Dr Millar  and his committee have not been implemented. With respect to the first part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, let me say that no evidence has been placed before me which would argue the case that there is any disturbing turnover of Army reservists. 
It gives me the greatest of pleasure to be able to give the honourable member the assurance that the Oberon type submarine does remain one of the most effective underwater machines in the world. It is peculiarly suited for operating in Australian waters. I hope that the honourable member possessed with that bit of information will sleep a little bit the better this evening. As to the torpedoes, I invite him to accept this simple proposition. When the order was put in for torpedoes, 12 could be delivered. They are highly sophisticated torpedoes. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide who interjects, I am bound to say, does have a number of endearing qualities but intelligence does not appear to be one of them. May I say to the honourable member for Chifley, who asked the question, that 12 torpedoes have been delivered as part of the initial order. The honourable member will appreciate also that when an order is put in there is an hypothecation of funds against the total cost of the order. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The departmental study referred to in my answer to question No. 1395 was subsequently subsumed in a report covering all Australian Government representation overseas called for by Cabinet following the recommendation to this effect by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. Announcement of a decision on the specific case of Defence representation in Middle East countries will be possible after Cabinet has considered the overall report. 
Conference on International Economic Co-operation: Special Action Program  (Question No. 212) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Certain training requires use of slow speed towed targets and the Navy has no suitable aircraft in its inventory for 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In the period 22 August and 10 October 1 977. 
Not specifically. The aim of the exercise was to further develop the tactical employment of a balanced combat force in a remote location under terrain and the climate environment represented at Woomera. 
) Army does not currently plan to use the area for similar exercises before 1980. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The two Sergeants travelled to Richmond and return on instructions from their Commanding Officer. They travelled on a training flight which had already been arranged. The purpose of their visit to Richmond was to locate and bring back, if possible, cleaning material required for preparation of the aircraft for use by Her Majesty the Queen during her Jubilee Visit to Australia. They were unable to locate the material and returned without it. 
) The Sergeant General Hand is NCO in charge of No. 34 Squadron aircraft cleaning section.  His  duty on 8 March 1977 was to ensure that the cleaning material was satisfactory. 
The Sergeant Equipment is NCO in charge of No. 34 Squadron equipment section.  His  duty on 8 March 1 977 was to locate the cleaning material and arrange the necessary documentation to transfer it to No. 34 Squadron. 
Yes. My letter dated 18 November 1977, which provided the answer to your question, indicated that I was not able to lodge my answer before the House was dissolved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Budget provision for Army Reserve training was framed on the basis of an average of 36 man days per year. This provision includes the basic essential training and additional training permitted at the discretion of commanding officers. 
Because of indications that the level of additional training provided for was being exceeded, it was necessary to issue instructions which have resulted in curtailment of planned activities in certain units to ensure that other units would be able to maintain a satisfactory number of training days. 
Overall, no units' activities should be restricted below the essential approved levels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Military District HQ was advised that planned training should be examined closely to ensure that the authorised limit of an average of 36 training man days was not exceeded. 
I am advised that the Commander of the Water Transport Unit, on his own initiative, sought the unit's response to voluntary unpaid parades. 
No funds were specifically allocated for activities associated with the visit of the USS  Midway.  However the unit used part of their training dme contributing to the support provided by the Military District HQ. 
No. 
Funds have been sought and sufficient will continue to be made available to meet the requirements for training up to the authorised level referred to in ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All members of the Defence Force remained under military command. The forces engaged in security operations near Bowral and on the route from Liverpool to Bowral were assigned to the Command of Brigadier D. M. Butler, the Commander designated by the Chief of Defence Force Staff (General  Sir Arthur  MacDonald ) for the purpose. 
The line of military authority was from the Chief of Defence Force Staff, to Brigadier Butler. 
Other military elements such as the bomb disposal team, which were not engaged in that operation remained under normal single-service command. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Leopard tank contract with Krauss Maffei requires the firm to offer work in the form of Leopard tank coproduction or alternatively offsetting orders of defence or technological significance to Australia. The overall target, namely 30 per cent of the contract price is to be achieved within 7 years of contract signature. The Australian items must be competitive in price, quality and delivery. 
The contractor has pursued his obligations satisfactorily recognising the timescale involved. Fifteen Leopard tank work packages were offered shortly after contract signature, but it was found that local industry was unable to compete with established German production in these areas. 
Krauss Maffei subsequently contacted a large number of Australian companies but the majority of these contacts were also unsuccessful. Offset purchases have been suggested but in the main these are of unsuitable types and do not satisfy the contract requirements. 
An engineer from the firm very recently paid two visits to Australia to offer new work packages and locate Australian items of technological significance suitable for offset purchase. Several promising possibilities have emerged and Australian industry is now quoting for the supply of a number of items to German firms. 
There has been a learning process associated with this first major Defence purchase from Germany involving offsets but there is no reason at this stage to assume that the offset target will not be met within the time allowed by the contract. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) Before detailed operational technical and industrial evaluation take place some of the aircraft proposed will be eliminated. The Government has not considered a short list at this stage. 
Aircraft will be evaluated on such matters as performance, cost, delivery schedules, programs for development and ibr reduction of technical risk, future production expectations and on opportunities for Australian industrial involvement. 
Aircraft not yet in production may be considered in relation to the commitment of the country of origin to the program, whether they are to be adopted by its Armed Service, as well as other factors such as included in (5 ) above. 
There can be no single criterion for final selection of a new fighter. Many different factors must be taken into consideration before a judgment is made. Whether or not one or more types of aircraft are ultimately acquired will depend on whether effective multirole aircraft can be chosen. That is a matter for later consideration. Whatever type or types are acquired, the aircraft can be expected to remain in service well into the next century. They must therefore be of such a quality that would permit fighter skills to be acquired and maintained which will remain relevant. 
The primary roles for the TFF encompass air-to-air and air-to-surface capabilities. These capabilities include air defence, air superiority, interdiction including maritime strike, tactical reconnaissance and close support. 
See answer to Question 7. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Defence Force operates a system of secure communications for both strategic and tactical purposes. This includes some secure voice communications capability. The extent of this capability is reviewed at regular intervals and measures to improve and update it are implemented within the availability of funds. 
In the strategic area you will recall the Government gave its approval in 1977 to the first stage of a new multi-purpose system known as the Defence Integrated Secure Communication Network (DISCON) which will include a secure voice capability. The network will be developed in stages. 
The first major development will be in the Queensland region and is planned to become operational in the early 1980s. The other regions, generally on a state basis, will be developed at about yearly intervals. 
In the tactical area the purchase of equipment to enhance our secure voice capability has also been approved and procurement action is well progressed. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House of the decisions taken by the Government to proceed with further development of the tactical fighter force project. Honourable members will be aware that in the Defence White Paper tabled in the House in November 1976 the Government stated that it had decided to proceed now with project development for the acquisition of new tactical fighters. It accepted that, subject to all of the necessary evidence being accessible, a decision on a generic type aircraft would be made in 1976-77 after detailed investigations had been completed. In November 1976 a request for proposals was issued to prospective suppliers of new fighter aircraft. Proposals were received progressively through early 1977 and some were delayed awaiting overseas government clearance until later in the year. 
The proposals have been subject to desk evaluation in terms of information provided on performance, cost, delivery schedules, programs for development and for reduction of technical risk, and opportunities for Australian industry involvement. At the same time, the Air Force and the Department of Defence have been actively reviewing the strategic need, the financial programming implications of satisfying it under various options, the level of air capability appropriate for Australia in order to secure its interests, and the phasing by which that capability might be acquired. 
Attention has been given not merely to the proposals given to us by prospective suppliers but also to the emerging option of extending the life of the Mirage aircraft which we already possess. The proven durability of the Mirage aircraft opens the prospect of extending the life of some of the aircraft beyond the early 1980s and, subject to the feasibility and economics of a program of modification and improvement, this creates new possibilities of satisfying Australia's tactical fighter requirements by a mixture of new aircraft and refurbished Mirage aircraft. 
The country needs not only aircraft with adequate weapons and performance, but also an industry to maintain them, modify them and repair them. The number of countries with the industrial and technological capability of producing at reasonable cost an advanced tactical fighter is shrinking. It has to be accepted that production of such an aircraft by Australia is not a feasible proposition; but Australian industry must receive an adequate share of work and technology arising from the decision to re-equip the RAAF's fighter force. The involvement of Australian industry will be a consideration when it comes to negotiation with a preferred supplier. In preparation for this stage a range of possible Australian industry programs is being examined. A balance has to be sought which would strengthen the technical ability of Australian industry to support the new tactical fighter through its life at reasonable cost, without extending unduly either the timetable or the cost of acquiring a new type of fighter. 
All these matters must be carefully weighed and examined. As I have said before, I make no apology for the deliberate process of examination that I have had carried out. This project is potentially the most costly single defence project ever undertaken by Australia. The type of fighter chosen for introduction in the 1980s will be in service after the end of this century. Tactical fighter force capabilities encompass air defence, air superiority, interdiction including antishipping capability, tactical reconnaissance and close support of ground forces. It is beyond doubt that the Royal Australian Air Force must at all times possess these capabilities, whether in time of high or low current threat. As with all military skills employing high technology, the lead time for acquiring them is long and the Australian core force must possess them. What has to be assessed, against the strategic situation of the country, is the standard and quantity of aircraft that we need to acquire, how quickly we need to acquire them, and the cost which the community should bear while satisfying other defence needs as well. This of course has been foremost in the mind of the Government in considering the steps that should now be taken in the further development of the project for creating the tactical fighter force in the 1 980s and beyond. 
As I mentioned earlier, we have a substantial asset in the Mirage aircraft which presently comprise our TFF. These aircraft have provided an excellent capability in the air-to-air role, and the aircraft also have an air-to-surface role. We have presently three squadrons and an operational conversion unit. Two of these squadrons are deployed to Malaysia. The capability of the Mirage can be maintained at present levels until the early 1980s. The capability will start to decline thereafter through aircraft attrition. The capability possessed by the country will begin to degrade substantially around the mid-1980s if there were not some acquisition of new fighters and a Mirage refurbishment program. 
While there is still some uncertainty about the life of the Mirage airframe, its air-to-air missiles and its avionics, it now appears that with refurbishment the Mirage aircraft can be retained as a cost-effective component of our tactical fighter force through to the late 1 980s. Even with refurbishment there will be some reduction in the Mirage air-to-air capability by the mid-1980s, but if a new fighter were to become operational in that time-scale in the air-to-air role the Mirage would provide an important complementary capability to that of the new fighter. 
For these and other reasons, which I will mention later, the Government has decided that project development should proceed with emphasis on a new fighter with primary capabilities in the air-to-air role. It is contemplated that aircraft would commence entry into service about 1983 and a first squadron of new aircraft would become operational by about 1985. The Mirage would continue to have a limited air defence capability beyond that time and its surface attack capability would be maintained. Air superiority is to be given priority in the acquisition of a new fighter because of the fundamental importance of this capability, both for defence against air attack, in ensuring the freedom of our own operations, and to enable our surface attack aircraft to operate effectively against an enemy. Priority also stems from the fact that there are several other capabilities in the Defence Force that can contribute to the surface interdiction and close support roles. 
The Government in coming to these conclusions believes that the retention of a threesquadron structure together with an operational conversion unit is a desirable planning objective for the Defence Force. As a planning base the Government considers that the number to be initially procured should provide for a squadron of aircraft, plus training aircraft and a limited number of attrition aircraft. Subject to later decisions on the Mirage component of the fighter force, it could be expected that further procurement would follow later. The Government has decided to confine further evaluation of aircraft to the following air-to-air aircraft: The McDonnell-Douglas Corporation FI 5 and F18A, the Northrop Corporation F18L, the General Dynamics FI 6, the Panavia Tornado and the Dassault-Breguet Mirage 2000. 
In order to help the Government confirm a short list of new fighters for the air-to-air role, an overseas visit at senior departmental level will be made within the next few weeks. This team will explore with government and administration elements, future procurement intentions of other countries, production expectations of the contending aircraft and their weapons systems, and possibilities of technological developments. Once the Government is in a position to announce a short list, an operational and technical mission and an industrial mission will be sent overseas to carry out detailed evaluations of each aircraft on the short list. A final recommendation will then be made to the Government on the aircraft to be initially acquired and other associated matters including detailed proposals covering the agreed involvement of overseas countries in an Australian aircraft industry program. 
By about the end of this calendar year detailed proposals of a Mirage refurbishment program should be sufficiently advanced to enable the Government to make an initial commitment to this program. The refurbishment of Mirage aircraft will provide an important stimulus to the Australian aircraft industry. It will assist in the build-up of appropriate skills as a precursor to Australian industry's involvement in acquiring and supporting in service the new aircraft that is to be selected. 
In conclusion I would like to stress to honourable members the importance and concern with which the Government views this proposal. What the Government has sought is the best way in which to achieve a fighter force appropriate to our needs. The Government is conscious primarily of the need to safeguard this country; to ensure that we maintain the level of air defence capability that we need now and in the shorter term, and that future governments be placed in a position to enlarge that capability in a practical way should unforeseen circumstances in any longer term future make that necessary. In perceiving that necessity for insurance for the future, the Government intends to progress the acquisition of a new fighter, but also intends to conserve and use fully the valuable asset we have in the Mirage IIIO 
The Government assures honourable members that its decision to acquire a new fighter- and I repeat that it is a most costly venturewill be taken in a sequential, deliberate, but timely manner. The steps I have outlined to the House today are intended to ensure just that. I firmly believe that members on both sides of the House will agree with these steps. I present the following paper: 
Further Development of the Tactical Fighter ForceMinisterial Statement, 7 April 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Service housing in the Moorebank, Holsworthy and Anzac Village areas has been provided by the New South Wales Housing Commission under Commonwealth/State Housing Agreements and directly by Commonwealth purchase or construction. 
Prior to 1 966 it was not the practice of Housing Commissions to build houses for servicemen to the Services' Scales and Standards of Married Quarters. 
However in 1966 the Commonwealth/State Housing Agreement was amended to permit State Housing Commissions to build houses to those Scales and Standards. 
In 1 972 the Government agreed to an upgrading program for houses throughout Australia built prior to 1966 under CSHA arrangements to bring those dwellings as far as practicable up to current Scales and Standards. 
That program has been largely completed. 
In respect of the Moorebank, Holsworthy and Anzac Village areas the total Army housing stock is 2040 dwellings of which 1430 were obtained under CSHA arrangements and 6 10 by direct Commonwealth provision. 
The 1430 dwellings provided under CSHA arrangements include 810 constructed before 1966 which require substantial upgrading and 120 which require marginal upgrading. The balance are generally in accordance with Scales and Standards. 
All the pre- 1966 houses except for 310 have been upgraded or are in the process of upgrading. Improvements to the 3 10 are under consideration. The deficiencies by comparison with Scales and Standards include such items as carports, lock-up sheds, paths and drive strips, clothes hoists, hot water systems and insect screening. 
The post- 1966 dwellings require less modernisation and a program of improvements is being considered. 
In relation to Commonwealth owned married quarters, 260 of these are of the pre-fabricated type erected mainly about 1956. Although their condition varies from dwelling to dwelling it is doubtful whether it is economic to spend any significant sum on their modernisation. The alternatives of rehabitation or disposal are under consideration. 
As to the balance (350) of the Commonwealth owned dwellings, they are generally of a better standard than the other dwellings but nonetheless some of these require improvement to bring them up to standards and a program to do this is being considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to  Senator Withers  's reply to Senate question No. 1116 which appeared in  Hansard,  9 November 1 977, (pages 2397-8 ). 
Department of Defence: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 258) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member would appreciate that expenditure by the Department of Defence on Travelling and Subsistence includes expenditure incurred by Service personnel as a result of postings policy, discharges, and recreation leave, and in respect of field exercises. 
It also includes travel undertaken by Natural Disasters Organisation personnel and students attending the Australian Counter Disasters College at Mt Macedon Victoria, and Defence Science and Technology personnel. 
1 ) The amounts expended on travelling and subsistence, in 1 976-77 are set out below: 
a ) Overseas $8,06 1 , 024 
Domestic $26,285,145. 
The percentages of the Department's expenditure on travel and subsistence were: 
Overseas 23.5 percent 
b ) Domestic 76.5 per cent. 
Yes. 
Minister for the Northern Territory: Overseas Travel (Question No. 263) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of weekly employees by unions of the Naval Dockyards as at 28 February 1 978 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A submission dated 16 June 1976 and entitled 'Patrol Boats for Surveillance on North Coast ', was received in 1 976 from the Western Australian Marine Services Association. 
The submission recommended a fleet of 18 vessels of the dimensions and capabilities mentioned, at a cost which was then placed at about $500,000 each. Each vessel was to be manned by a crew of 8, with provision for one extra officer representing a Government department appropriate to the occasion. The vessels were to be stationed at 13 centres. 
The acquisition of the patrol boats and the frigates is based primarily on the requirements of national defence, although use of defence capabilities for peacetime civil purposes is a secondary role. 
As announced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  in  January, a Committee of Permanent Heads of relevant Departments has been established to examine urgently future requirements for civil surveillance and the most effective way of providing an appropriate level of resources to meet those requirements. Proposals of the type advanced by the Western Australian Marine Services Association will be covered by the Permanent Heads Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Where aid to the civil power is sought which involves the likelihood of the Defence Force being involved in the use of force, it is necessary to call out the Defence Force before that aid is provided. Procedures for such call out depend on whether it is being provided at the request of a State or whether it is being provided to safeguard Commonwealth interests. 
A call out at the request of a State must observe the procedure set out in section SI of the Defence Act which implements section 1 19 of the Constitution. There must be a proclamation by the Governor of the State that domestic violence exists therein, an application by the Executive Government of the State to the Governor-General, a proclamation by the Governor-General declaring that domestic violence exists in that State and finally an Order by the Governor-General calling out the Permanent Forces (other than the Reserve Forces). 
It is further provided that the Citizen Forces and the Reserve Forces may only be called out for the protection of a State against domestic violence if the numbers of the Permanent Forces are insufficient. There is an express prohibition on call-out or use of the Citizen Forces or the Reserve Forces in connection with an industrial dispute. 
Where the Defence Force is called out to safeguard the Commonwealth 's own interests, the procedure set out in section SI of the Defence Act does not apply. However, the Government has been advised that the step of invoking the assistance of the Defence Force to safeguard the Commonwealth's own interests should be taken by the GovernorGeneral acting upon the advice of Ministers. In the case of the call out on 13 February 1978, the advice to the Governor-General was tendered by the Federal Executive Council. 
Where the likelihood of the Defence Force members being involved in the use of force does not exist, for example, to deal with a natural disaster, or to carry out a bomb disposal task under such circumstances, there is no requirement for call out. The Defence Force acts only in response to requests from the responsible civil authorities in accordance with guidelines and instructions endorsed by the Minister for Defence. 
Members of the Reserve Forces or the Citizen Forces rendering military service at the time could be employed on this type of assistance as well as members of the Permanent Forces. When not rendering service at the time, members of the Reserve Forces or Citizen Forces could, in peacetime, only be invited to volunteer for such tasks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) - (a) A total of 1,199 personnel from my Department were involved, comprising 2 civilians, 58 RAAF personnel (helicopter support) and 1,139 Army Personnel (security duties). 
Nil. 
Cost of travel for the civilian personnel amounted to $112. Service personnel were deployed by Service transport at no additional cost. 
Travelling and other allowances paid to civilian personnel were $23 1.75. An amount of $472.50 in Incidental Allowances was paid to RAAF personnel. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Research and development is estimated to comprise about 4.4 per cent of the 1977-78 Budget of $2432.3m for Defence Function Expenditure. 
It is estimated that 1.4 per cent of the research and development component of Defence Function Expenditure is allocated to avionics, defined as electronics installed as part of the airborne platform. In addition it is estimated that a further 1 .4 per cent of the research and development component is allocated to research on electronic instruments installed in aircraft for other purposes. 
Armed Forces: Training and promotion  (Question No. 424) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The armed forces are continuing to operate effectively within the financial framework of the 1977 budget and the manpower ceilings presently applicable to each Service. 
Modifications have been made in training programs in  order to meet  changing Service priorities and to accord with the Government's stated policy for expenditure restraint. Training programs, however are continuing to be maintained at a professionally satisfactory level. 
Promotion courses have not been adversely affected nor have individual promotion prospects been jeopardised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)(i)45;(ii)2.(b)(i)12;(ii)l23. 
(i) $660,889; (ii)$74,098. 
Removal of Explosives from Former Firing Range  (Question No. 534) 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) In September 1977, Army explosives demolition personnel were summoned to remove an unexploded object. As a result of this, a total of six unexploded items were found, some close to completed houses, others in areas scheduled for development. 
In October 1977, at the request of the Assistant Police Commissioner of Western Australia, some 40 hectares of land under development were cleared by Army Engineers of Headquarters 5 Military District. 
I am not aware of the full extent of the housing development at Warnbro. 
Although my Department will continue to assist when explosive items are discovered, no assurance can be given that an area is free of unexploded ordnance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. 
Not applicable. 
No. 
There is a shortage of some spares but they are on order and are awaiting delivery. 
Service Officers: Employment after Retirement  (Question No. 603) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Services do not maintain records of employment of members after retirement and do not require ex-members to advise details of employment. 
RAAF Housing, Lalor Electoral Division  (Question No. 616) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The RAAF has been allocated Victorian Housing Commission dwellings in four estates in the Werribee subdivisions of the Electoral Division of Lalor, as follows: 
Laverton- 232 
Laverton North-340 
Werribee 'A '-207 
Werribee 'B'-20. 
) As at 14 March, houses unoccupied were as follows: 
Laverton- 5 
Werribee 'A'-3. 
With the exception of one house- 60 Market Road, Werribee the subject houses are vacant due to the normal turnover of tenants and for between-tenants maintenance. In respect of 60 Market Road, that house was severely damaged by vandals and has been vacant for two years. It has now been completely rehabilitated, however, and is to be re-occupied. 
The average period of vacancy between tenants is some 3 to 4 weeks. 
None of the houses is surplus to RAAF requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In my statement to the Parliament on 22 September 1977,I indicated that the Government Defence Policy is to maintain the manpower, equipment and skills that will allow us to be ready in time to defend ourselves should this ever become necessary. The Government continues to give priority to the equipment program and this requires that expenditure on manpower be contained to the maximum extent possible. 
As stated in the White Paper, the efficient use of manpower calls for continuous review of the essentiality of Service and civilian activities and the ways in which savings in the use of manpower can be achieved. 
The total Expenditure on Defence Function during 1976-77 was $2,256.330m. The Budget provision for !977-78is$2,432.328m. 
In 1976-77, 54.6 per cent of total Defence Function Expenditure was allocated to manpower expenditure (i.e. salaries, allowances and DFRDB payments). In the 1977-78 Budget, the equivalent provision is 53.7 per cent. 
RAAF Mirage Replacement (Question No. 658) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Comparative desk evaluations have been made of the aircraft listed. 
) No, but the Government is aware of the need to minimise the technical, operational, financial and other risks associated with the purchase of military aircraft. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The patrol boats which are being constructed to the Brooke Marine PCF420 design include modifications to the original specifications submitted by the company. Brooke Marine agreed, prior to the award of construction contracts, that the performance of the PCF420 would not be adversely affected by the inclusion of these modifications. 
and (3) The modifications are being made to improve the overall performance and habitability of the patrol boats. The include the fitting of the proven MTU (Moteren and Turbine-Union) main propulsion diesel engines, stabilisers and various improvements to the layout of the craft. Provision has also been made for alternative fitting of a throughdeck or on-deck gun mounting. These modifications will not reduce the performance of the new patrol boats, which will be superior to the Attack class in speed, range and seakeeping. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Air Force Office does not have information which would enable me to confirm that the ex-officers or any of them named in question No. 1227 accepted the positions or any of them named in the question. 
I am glad to inform the honourable member for Ryan that I propose, with the approval of the House, to introduce the legislation tomorrow. This matter represents a very long journey over quite a number of parliamentary vicissitudes. At long last the legislation will be before the House for its consideration. With the approval of this House and the other place I would also propose that the Academy should bear the name of Casey University. It seems to be a singularly apt name for such an academy to bear. I thought at first that it may appear as an expression of admiration- partisan admiration; the prejudice of admiration and affection on my part- for one whom I had the honour and pleasure of serving in this House. If I may say so without being prissy, I think this country has been too tardy in recognising those who have served it politically on both sides of the House. There are very few Australian Prime Ministers whose names are recalled other than by an electorate, a suburb or, indeed, a street. I think most of us would settle for a lonely lane. I put my own views to one side and recall the words used by my honourable and learned friend, the honourable member for Werriwa. On 1 7 August 1 976 in this House he said of Richard Gardiner Casey: 
He was a man of unquestionable integrity, high principle, singular urbanity and personal charm, with valuable gifts as a diplomat and politician. No criticism one could make of him, even on this occasion, can alter our judgment of him as a great Australian. 
He went on to say: 
There were many firsts to his credit- the first Australian overseas diplomat, liaison officer to London, Minister to Washington; the first Australian to serve as Minster in a British government; the first Australian to be a colonial governor; the first Commonwealth life peer. He had fought at Gallipoli. He became an audacious flyer. It is a career not likely to be repeated in our time for it belongs essentially to another age. Yet the best things about Lord Casey will be valued in any age and his achievements will be of lasting  importance. He was above all and in the best sense of the word a man of fundamental and abiding decency. 
I adopt that language in every particular. I hope that the Parliament and the Commonwealth of Australia will be proud to see that the Academy will bear the name of Casey. 
The report is not based on fact. My attention was drawn to it. I had the report submitted to close examination. There is not, as the report argued, a wave of resignations. The claim made by the  speaker  at the political rallythat is a rather exuberant description to give of it- was completely in error. Recruiting for the Army Reserve at the moment is entirely satisfactory. Indeed, the figure is- I speak from memory and am subject to correction- approximately 2,000 in advance of the figure as it stood two years ago. 
I shall answer first the second part of the question. A system known as the redress of wrongs and the redress of grievance has been in existence for many years and has been used by commissioned officers. In the Royal Australian Air Force it has been used by other ranks and the redress may be sought from as high an authority as the Chief of Air Staff. I am reminded that on one occasion about 30 years ago I embarked upon such a course myself when I felt aggrieved. 
I failed. With respect to the first part of the question, that matter is currently under consideration. Since  Mr Hay's  promotion to the position of Permanent Head, the office has not been filled permanently. It has been filled in an acting capacity. The honourable gentleman will appreciate and acknowledge that the filling of such posts is not directly a matter of ministerial responsibility as much as it is a matter of administrative responsibility. 
I hesitate to intervene in the matter but I am surprised and somewhat dismayed at my honourable friend 's heat in relation to this question. As I understand the whole matter - 
I ask for my honourable friend's hearing. As I understand the whole question of privilege of the Parliament- I do not speak of any other Parliament- the obligation placed upon a committee of privilege is to report to the Parliament on whether there has been, in fact, a breach of privilege. 
I ask the honourable member to hear me out. It is not imposed on the Privileges Committee to make any recommendation as to whether a penalty should be imposed. 
-A11 I say is that if that is the conclusion reached by the honourable gentleman, then it is a most impoverished report. 
I have read the report. I say to the honourable gentleman that there is no basis whatever - 
My understanding- it may not be shared by other honourable members- is that the responsibility of a committee of privilege is to make a finding on whether there has been a breach of privilege. If the Committee finds that there has been a breach of privilege it is the responsibility of this House, and of no other body, to determine whether any penalty should be imposed. The House may wish to consult its own dignity. I may well argue that case, not as a Minister but as a private member of parliament. The question of privilege, when it comes to this consideration, concerns members of the Parliament and not Ministers of the Crown. That is the view I take. To reduce the point to absurdity I ask: What if the Privileges Committee suggested that the person charged, on being found guilty of a breach of privilege, should be fined? I raise this matter hypothetically. The Privileges Committee has no capability to make such a recommendation. It is either one thing or the other. It is either the censure by the House or the penalty, such as imprisonment, imposed by the House. I simply say to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and to my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that no excruciating penalty is imposed upon the people who are involved in the Committee's report by this matter being held over for two weeks. 
I yield not one inch to my honourable friend in the matter of any burden being placed upon any private individual. The duty of the Privileges Committee is to make a finding of whether there has been a breach of privilege. The question of penalty is for this House and not for the Privileges Committee. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the establishment and incorporation of an institution which will be both a university and a Defence Force Academy. The basic aim is to replace, with a single institution, those activities of the three Service colleges at Duntroon, Point Cook, and Jervis Bay which involve study for academic degrees. The new institution will provide a balanced and liberal university education concurrently with a program of military education and training. 
The concept has had bipartisan support over the years. It was first envisaged under a previous coalition government following the report of a committee set up under  Sir Leslie  Martin by the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairhall,  now  Sir Allen  Fairhall. It was endorsed by the Labor Government in 1974 when  Mr Barnard  announced plans to establish a Defence Force Academy. In October 1976, 1 announced that the present Government had decided that the institution would be established to provide a university education in a military environment for selected members of the Defence Force. I informed the House yesterday that the institution would bear the name Casey University. This title recalls the achievements of Baron Casey of Berwick, who was as able in the highest levels of administration as he was gallant in battle. Casey University will aim to achieve, in its products, that same amalgam of intellectual and military qualities. 
The full title- Casey University- Australian Defence Force Academy- spells out that the new institution will be both a university and a military academy. In its academic function the Academy will be an independent university in its own right, so staffed and managed as to sustain the scholarship and research which are the hallmarks of a university. As a military academy it will be required to sustain an environment appropriate to the induction of cadets into the discipline and values of the profession of arms, and give them their first training before they go out to their chosen arm of the Defence Force for specialised training in that service. 
The Academy will have two chief executive officers of equal status, a commandant and a vice-chancellor. Each will be separately responsible to the Council for his own defined sphere of responsibilities. They will be jointly responsible to the Council for other matters relating to the administration of the Academy. The Academy Council will be responsible for maintenance of an appropriate military environment at the Academy, and for military education and training conducted there to meet the requirements of the Chief of Defence Force Staff. The commandant will be the chief executive officer responsible to the Council for the functions and activities of the institution as a military academy. He will command the members of the Defence Force, both staff and students, posted to the Academy and in exercising the command function he will be responsible to the Chief of Defence Force Staff. 
As far as the academic functions and activities of the Academy are concerned, the Council will have the same kind of authority and responsibilities as does the council, or for that matter the senate of any other university. The Vice-Chancellor will be the chief executive officer responsible to the Council for academic functions and activities. 
The Minister for Defence will be responsible for administering the Act, and funds for the operation and maintenance of the academy will be appropriated from the defence vote. I observe that it will be a vote which will be in a division all on its own. The Academy will have its own budget which will concompass both academic and military activities and will separately identify the costs of each. By arrangement with my colleague, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  I will be seeking the advice of the Tertiary Education Commission on the level of funding appropriate to the university function and activities of the Academy. Advice on the funding of the military functions and activities of the Academy will be provided by the Department of Defence. Arrangements will be made to ensure that these sources of advice co-ordinate their activities so that the Minister for Defence is provided with integrated advice to accompany the presentation by the Council of its decisions and recommendations. 
In initiating this Bill to establish the Defence Force Academy, I should record my particular gratitude to three universities which, to serve a national purpose, have made special arrangements over the years to provide university education to a significant proportion of officer cadets of all three Services, and which have agreed to continue to do so until the Academy opens. These Services are indebted to the universities for these arrangements and would have been the poorer without them. 
The University of Melbourne has, since 1961, maintained a group of staff from its faculty of science at the Royal Australian Air Force Academy, Point Cook, to teach cadets studying for the University's science degree. For many years, the University of Sydney has made special arrangements for RAAF officer cadets studying for engineering degrees. 
In 1967 the University of New South Wales undertook to assist the Army by establishing a faculty of military studies of the University to provide university courses at the Royal Military College. It was planned that an independent institution would take over this role within 10 years. This arrangement with the Government has been extended, on the clear understanding that the University will be relieved of its responsibilities as soon as possible. Many naval cadets, having studied for one year at the Royal Australian Naval College, under the auspices of the University of New South Wales, complete their courses at the University. 
Whilst acknowledging the co-operation and the scholastic standard which has been maintained by these three universities in the academic teaching of cadet officers, some disabilities have been unavoidable. Groups of students and of highly qualified teachers are isolated from each other. The concept of the three Services forming the one Defence Force is not assimilated early. 
Student numbers are small, and therefore faculty costs per student are high; courses available to students are necessarily restricted in subjects. I am glad to acknowledge the initiative and vision of  Mr Lance  Barnard who, as Minister for Defence in 1974, did much to crystallise the concept of one academy to serve the needs of all three Services. I inform the House and in particular the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  that today I sent a cable to  Mr Barnard  informing him that it gave me immense pleasure to put in my second reading speech this day an acknowledgement of the interest in and service to this concept of our former colleague. 
I conclude by saying that the Bill does more than provide an apparatus for education and training. Its intention is to create, in one location, a new national institution of learning which will educate a significant proportion of the officers of the Defence Force in the years to come. Eminence in the profession of arms requires qualities of leadership; it also involves participation in the highest levels of defence management, and the provision of policy advice to government. It calls for good minds, educated in technological fields and in humanities. It is essential that our Defence Force is intellectually equipped to meet the challenges of the future to the security of this nation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts spent by the Department of Defence during the periods nominated, on advertising and services, are: 
11.1 1.75 to 13.12.75- $133,383 
14.12.75 to 30.6.76-$830,980 
1.7.76 to 30.6.77-$2,395,072 
1.7.77 to31.1.78fi$l,433,310 
The cost of each campaign undertaken was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer' the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 468, which appeared in  Hansard,  4 April 1978 (p. 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 20,600 hectares. 
This pan of the question falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Administrative Services whom I have asked to advise the honourable member separately. 
No figure is available for the current value of improvements but details of the replacement cost are given in the answer to 2 (c). 
(a) Advantages of re-location 
Provision of modern, purpose-built accommodation for those units not currently occupying such accommodation. 
Planned functional layout for a military complex. 
Provision can be made for extension/expansion as required. 
Less likelihood of restriction of use of range facilities. 
b) Disadvantages of re-location 
Total cost to the Commonwealth. 
Increased operating costs, mainly due to distance from Sydney. 
Short and medium term disruption during relocation. 
Excluding land cost it is estimated total replacement costs would be approximately $330m. In addition there would be significant costs in removing personnel, equipment, etc to the new location(s) 
There are two types of clearance operations which could be mounted, the cost of which would vary from between $5,000 per hectare and $18,000 per hectare. The first of these involves a visual surface search followed by a mine detector sweep which, under ideal circumstances, can detect metal buried to a depth of 250mm. Should the soil possess magnetic qualities to the extent that the Holsworthy area does, the results of such a search would be questionable. The second type of search involves the removal of overburden (usually in three layers each of 300mm thick) to a depth of up to a metre. 
It is stressed that in both of these cases no guarantee of total clearance and therefore complete safety can be given. 
Total costs, therefore, could range from between $90m and $324m. 
At present Task Force bases are located at Holsworthy, Enoggera and Townsville. The Government has not considered alternative locations for these bases. Investigations are in hand for the acquisition of a major training area in N.S.W. to supplement existing ranges. If this proposal proceeds it will alleviate some restrictions imposed on field firing at Holsworthy 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The air traffic control surveillance radar at Amberley Air Force Base is temporarily inoperable. 
(a) A shortage of some spare parts dictated the closure of one of the Air Force's six radar installations in order to maintain the remainder. Amberley was chosen because its closure would have the least effect on military operations and because, in the Brisbane area, surveillance radar cover was available from Eagle Farm. The Eagle Farm radar was the only surveillance radar facility available for Amberley from June 1969 up to last year when the new Amberley radar was installed. 
The required spares are on order and will be delivered in the second half of 1978. The Amberley air traffic control radar will be reactivated as soon as practicable after the spares are received. 
The air traffic control radar at Eagle Farm has a greater range than the Amberley installation. 
Its capacity, while adequate for the Eagle Farm area on which it is centred, does not meet the low-level (below 2,000 feet) surveillance radar requirement at Amberley. 
As a temporary measure, the procedures previously used to meet the Amberley requirement have been re-activated to enable monitoring and control of the air space in that area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total cost to the Department of the development project for a 1 ton truck was about $902,000. 
The pilot models from Ford and International Harvester were found to be generally satisfactory. However, some further development work would have been necessary before an acceptable vehicle could be introduced into service. 
) All eight vehicles survived the trials. 
The estimated cost of production vehicles when the project was cancelled in August 1 973 was: 
a) Cargo version- in excess of $7,000 per vehicle; and 
Fitted for radio (FFR) version-in excess of $9,000 per vehicle. 
The specifications for the development of the vehicles were based on Army's then current requirements for a 1 ton truck and trailer. These requirements had been developed in the early 1960s. 
No further vehicles of this type were ordered. This development program was undertaken because, at that time, no commercial vehicles were available that met Army's particular requirements. However, by late 1972 the desirability of proceeding with the project came under question and, subsequently, in August 1973 it was decided to terminate the development project and to look for a cheaper vehicle from among the several types then available commercially. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (3) Generally, the prototype 1 Ton Trucks developed by both companies could have met or exceeded all performance requirements subsequently specified for Army's Light General Service Truck. However, neither vehicle would have complied with the important requirements that the vehicle should be in volume production and marketed commercially in Australia. These would ensure the continued availability of vehicles and spare parts and a low unit cost. 
Both Ford and International Harvester were specifically invited by the then Department of Manufacturing Industry to tender for the supply of Light Trucks for Army in the tendering call of November 1974. In the event, neither company made an offer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1618; (b) 1589;(c) 1572. 
(a) (i) 35; (ii) 2; Not all statistics are available as Navy and Army do not record civilian injuries or fatalities. (b) (i)93;(ii)10. 
(a) 299 (Excludes Navy as statistics are not available for 1975); (b) 823; (c) 804. 
(a) (i) 1; (ii) Nil; Not all statistics are available as Navy and Army do not record civilian injuries or fatalities. (b)(i) 1945; (ii) 109. 
Statistics are not available from within the Department of Defence as such persons are dealt with by the Civilian Authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) While information on reserve stocks of ammunition must remain classified, I can state there is no danger to the nation 's security from a lack  of  ammunition. 
There have been some recent problems with the production of 7.62 mm small arms ammunition but remedial action has been taken. There have been no problems with the supply of artillery ammunition. 
Generally, ammunition is not allocated on an individual basis but rather as a block allocation to formations, units and training establishments. The amount will vary with the role and level of training required at any particular time. 
There are many and varied types or natures of ammunition which are allocated according to purpose or role. For example, there are some 20 natures of small arms ammunition many of which do not share commonalty between field force and non-field force units and some 20 natures of artillery ammunition used by field, medium and air defence units, according to role. 
As an illustration, use of 7.62 mm rifle ammunition by individuals is based on an average allocation varying from 200 rounds per Army Reserve soldier to 450 rounds per ARA soldier. Within units, the actual allocation to each man usually depends upon the particular role of the soldier in the unit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The specification for the Army 6x6 trucks, against which tenders were invited in 1977, was derived from a stated Australian Army requirement for a truck capable of carrying an 8 tonne payload cross-country and 10 tonnes on formed roads. The payload size resulted from operational studies conducted in Australia. 
The specification requires that the vehicles shall be capable of registration in all Australian States and that the vehicles shall comply with the Australian Design Rules (ADR) in force at the time of their acceptance by Army. The specification also anticipated that the dimension and mass limits contained in the National Association of Australian State Road Authorities (NAASRA) report would be implemented by the States by the time production vehicles were to be acquired. 
It is recognised by the truck industry  that the  NAASRA mass limits are amongst the most restrictive in the world and that they disadvantage European, Japanese and North American truck designs which would otherwise be suitable for Australian commercial use. The same restrictions also operate to Army's disadvantage in that it is the Government's policy that the Defence Force will comply with statutory requirements except where such compliance results in an unacceptable limitation on operational efficiency. 
No Australian Design Rules applicable to motor vehicles in excess of 4.5 tonnes gross vehicle mass will become effective during 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. I refer the honourable member to my statement to the House on 7 April 1978  (Hansard  pages 1223-5). 
I have not the slightest doubt that Parkes represents a heavenly existence in more ways than one. I do not wish to disappoint the honourable member but there is not in existence any proposal whatever to move the RAAF base away from Richmond, let alone to move it to Parkes. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House of the decision the Government has now taken in regard to the acquisition of two aircraft to be operated by No. 34 Squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force. The Government is concerned that the means of air travel available to national leaders and, from time to time, to visiting dignitaries and groups of ministers, fail to provide protection against terrorist activity or other threats against security. Where commercial flights are used this risk extends to all passengers. An assessment of aircraft security considerations has been undertaken. This assessment indicates that the security risk in travel by foreign owned commercially scheduled aircraft or by privately owned chartered aircraft, whether Australian owned or foreign owned, is unacceptably high. 
Personal contact with governments of other countries is now becoming increasingly important in inter-government relationships. This factor is imposing increasing demands on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his staff to travel overseas, often at comparatively short notice. It is not always practicable to look to Australian Airlines, be it Qantas or the internal commercial carriers, to provide at relatively short notice charter aircraft for overseas flights, Internally, similar considerations apply. In a country so dependent on air travel, internally and externally, the Government recognises that the use of special transport aircraft owned and operated by the Defence Force offers a positive advantage in isolating from normal commercial traffic what could at any time be attractive targets for terrorist activity. 
In considering how this government and future governments might best respond to situations of risk which cannot be forecast, but ought to be insured against, and recognising that situations can arise with unpredictable suddenness, the Government has examined various options. Members of the House will know that the No. 34 Squadron is presently equipped with two HS748 aircraft, three Mystere 20 aircraft and two BACIII aircraft. Of these the BACIII has the greatest range and passenger capacity but, even for long-range flights within Australia, intermediate refuelling is required. Whilst this is generally acceptable, the major disadvantage of the current aircraft fleet is that they are twin-engined aircraft unsuitable for long over-water flights. The option of chartering Qantas Boeing 707 aircraft, which has been a practice of Australian governments in the past, will no longer be available once the last of the Qantas 707 aircraft are phased out in the not too distant future. Aircraft types then available would be too costly for chaner, and they would not readily be available without severely disrupting normal scheduled airline services, particularly at relatively short notice. 
The practical option remaining is for the Government to acquire aircraft capable of longrange over-water flights. Such aircraft would necessarily have at least three engines, and an extended range capability. Enhanced passenger space and facilities and baggage capacity compared with existing aircraft in the special transport fleet are necessary. The Government therefore has decided to acquire two Boeing 727 type aircraft. The possibility of acquiring secondhand aircraft will be examined. Such aircraft can be acquired on world markets at reasonable cost, and aircraft with adequate airframe life remaining should be available if we proceed now. As these Boeing aircraft are presently in Australian airline service, the possibility of linking in with their maintenance and spares support organisation is being examined. This would minimise the costs and the demands placed on Air Force resources. 
The cost of two Boeing 727 type aircraft will depend on detailed evaluation of available aircraft and of the prospects of successful price negotiation. I will inform the House when I have more information on this aspect. For the time being the existing aircraft in No. 34 Squadron will remain in service. When the Boeing 727 aircraft come into operation, an examination will be made of the longer-term rationalisation of the aircraft in No. 34 Squadron, against the background of security requirements and the pattern of increased usage. All aircraft in No. 34 Squadron are available for service transport duties in the event of an emergency. I present the following paper. 
Acquisition of Aircraft by Royal Australian Air ForceMinisterial Statement, 4 May 1978. 
This morning when I was making my statement I refered to an assessment of aircraft security considerations that had been undertaken. I have been asked by a number of people by whom that assessment was made and the nature of it. In consequence of that, I table the assessment which has been made by the Secretary of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and by the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services. 
Leave granted. 
I put to one side the mild polemics in the honourable gentleman's question. I simply say to him that I am not aware of any particular case causing hardship of the character to which the honourable gentleman has referred. I give him a very firm assurance that if he places before me the facts of any specific case or cases of which he is aware, I will deal with them promptly. 
Honourable members have just listened to what may be described as one of the most graceless speeches ever heard. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has used very strong language and he has used remarkably unreal language. What seems to disturb the honourable gentleman immensely is what he describes as the indulgence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The honourable gentleman repeats the charge. As an illustration of that, he refers, of all things, to the modifications to the Lodge. Honourable members will recall that that was one of the thrusting arguments used by the honourable gentleman. The Lodge has been modified, ergo this is an example of the indulgence of the Prime Minister. The simple fact of the matter is that the alterations to the Lodge were made on the recommendation of a committee representative of all parties in this House. What was the nature of the alterations? They were made to improve the living facilities for the employees who work at the Lodge. It seems to me to be passing strange, coming from a person who holds himself out as having fierce egalitarian ideas, that those trade unionists who work at the Lodge should live in circumstances that would promote a strike in any run-down shearing shed. The honourable gentleman went on to talk about Japan. 
I inform the honourable member for Newcastle who interjects that I am talking about the argument put by his colleague. I am not talking about pterodactyls. The honourable gentleman gaily dismisses the living circumstances and standards of those people who work at the Lodge. I would not know of one honourable gentleman who can recall the appalling conditions that existed at the Lodge and who would have thought for one moment that it could ever be described as a waste of public money to fix them. Let me illustrate the level of the argument which the honourable member presses on the House today. He then turned to deal with the Prime Minister's official visit to Japan, almost conveying the impression that my right honourable friend had gone on a fishing trip. The fact of the matter is that the Prime Minister visited Japan for quite crucial talks regarding this country's circumstances-- 
-The honourable gentleman dishes it out. He cannot find the stomach to take it. 

 - Mr Speaker, before this paragon of virtue interrupted me I was adverting to the fact that the Prime Minister's talks in Japan were of crucial importance to this nation and to the trading position of this nation. The honourable gentleman gaily dismisses that fact. He says, as a consequence, that this is a further example of the Prime Minister's indulgence. I think that the Prime Minister would share my view in regard to flying. I have done so much of it that I take the view that it is a pity the Wright Brothers were ever sired. Anybody who thinks it is possible to get any joy out of flying to Japan under the conditions that the Prime Minister did and then to return to Australia seems to me to have a very strange sense of humour. 
The honourable member for Blaxland has sought to ignore purposefully what is the central argument in this dispute. Before I turn to that central argument and invite the honourable gentleman to devote what cerebral processes he can muster to consider it, I want to turn to what I regard to be one of the meanest arguments that the honourable gentleman employed. I derive no pleasure out of adverting to this sort of argument but I am bound to do so because the honourable member for Blaxland pressed it upon the House. The honourable member referred to the visits abroad of the present Prime Minister and he said that they represented a further indulgence. I want to cite the statistics on this matter to the honourable gentleman. I have no relish for it because I do not think they show very much, but they do show up in stark relief how utterly contemptible was the honourable gentleman's submission to the House this morning. Ministers in the present Government have completed a total of 96 visits overseas involving 1,147 days. During a similar period of the Labor Government, there were 130 visits overseas by Ministers involving 1,776 days. 
I will come to deal with him. That is the first comparison for the honourable gentleman to consider. Let us take the case of the present Prime Minister. Since he became Prime Minister, he has undertaken 10 visits abroad - 
He has undertaken 10 visits involving 96 days at a cost of $480,000. During the term of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  as Prime Minister, he undertook 14 visits abroad involving 16S days at a cost of $1,515,000. The figures speak for themselves. I only hope that the honourable gentleman will reflect on those figures and take a more sensible and rational view of what has taken place. When I made the announcement on the purchase of these aircraft to the House yesterday, I described the basis upon which the proposal rests. It rests on the security aspect. It is sad to assert it, but it is true to say that the world has reached a stage at which it is virtually impossible for the Prime Minister of this nation, no matter what his kidney of politics may be, to travel abroad other than in a Service aircraft. 
I want to deal with that. If the honourable member for Blaxland would compare the security report which was presented to the Government in which he served for a period with the security report which I tabled in the House yesterday, he must be prepared to concede, despite his obstinacy, that it is like comparing chalk with cheese. 
What a rude little man the honourable member is. 

 - Mr Speaker, I come to what is the central argument in this matter; that is, the security aspect. Honourable members can dismiss, if they like, the reports of the officials. But I would hope that the honourable gentleman would be prepared to. summon the members of the Press Gallery as neutral witnesses in this matter. I think it is a pretty fair test to ask the Press Gallery. 
I will not reveal the names. 
No. I am speaking of senior working journalists who have travelled with the Prime Minister and who travelled with the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Prime Minister. I want to give three examples that have come from a senior, a highly respected member of the Press Gallery. He says that on a Qantas flight to America in mid- 1976 the Prime Minister's party was in a first-class part of the plane. During the flight the Prime Minister went back to economy class to talk to some members of the Press and also to a member of the Royal Australian Air Force. During this conversation and quite without warning, another passenger who was in a certain condition- if I describe him as being Mozart and Liszt, I think everyone will understand what I am talking about- came up to the Prime Minister, put his hand on his arm and started to talk to him. 
I beg my friend the honourable member for Newcastle to listen to this. The journalist goes on to say that that is a simple illustration of how easy it is for any person to attack a prime minister when he is travelling in an aircraft. The second illustration he gives is that on the Prime Minister's flight to London in May 1976 there was a change in aircraft at Singapore. 
I am delighted that even the mind of the honourable member for Shortland can run to that. That cheers us enormously. There is hope for him yet. The Prime Minister of Singapore came to the aerodrome to meet the Australian Prime Minister. The security people were worried because of knowledge that some Japanese Red Guards were in the vicinity. As a result, some 2,000-odd passengers from several jumbo jets had to be searched individually. I regret that that is the sort of world in which we are living. The journalist goes on to say they were told to be at the airport three to four hours before the flight took off to undergo a security search. 
The last illustration he gives is that when the Prime Minister visits, say, the United States of America and lands at a commercial airfield, an enormous strain is placed on American security resources to implement protective measures at the airport. This involves the use of hundreds of security personnel, disruption, and inconvenience to other passengers. That is the argument. If harsh assessments have been made in the past, I will walk to Canossa. The fact of life today is - 
No. I say to the honourable member for Newcastle that on every inquiry that has been made regarding the chartering of aircraft one runs into a brick wall. They are not longer available at short notice. 
The facts can be placed before the honourable gentleman. It is a sad world in which we live, for to embrace the sentiments pressed upon the House today by the honourable member for Blaxland would mean saying, in effect, to the Prime Minister of this country, no matter who he might be, 'You can no longer travel abroad'. One may express the deepest sense of regret that we have lived to see the day in this country when the Prime Minister would never be a welcome passenger in an aircraft of one of the great airlines of the world. But that is the case. The strain placed on Qantas in the fuelling, refuelling, servicing and victualling of aircraft, and the boarding of aircraft, is intolerable. Any senior executive of Qantas will say that that is the case. 
It has been an ungenerous, mean argument, that the honourable member for Blaxland has sought to put to the House this morning. The honourable gentleman has done no credit to his party. He has shown impoverished understanding of the facts of life in the world today. 
I reject some of the unpleasant features of the honourable gentleman's question, notably, that the aircraft are being bought for the Prime Minister's own use. I invite my honourable friend to reflect upon the fact that circumstances have now been reached, regrettably, where it will be impossible for an Australian Prime Minister, irrespective of his political allegiance, to leave this country with propriety and with appropriate dignity. If the honourable gentleman wants to argue that - 
If the honourable gentleman is reluctant - 
The honourable gentleman is resting my voice and not exercising his brain. 
Without wishing to give offence to the greater fourth estate I would excuse myself from seeking to understand the interstices of their corporate or individual minds. There is absolutely nothing exceptional about the proposed naval exercise in the Indian Ocean. It is very much a routine exercise and is an exercise that has been in planning now for some weeks. The character of the unexceptionability of it may be gathered from the fact that last year there was a combined exercise in the Indian Ocean, known as Operation Compass 1977, which involved units of the Royal Navy, the Royal Australian Navy and the United States Navy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The new Australian Services Cadet Scheme, as did the previous system of Service Cadets, comprises three Cadet forces, namely the Naval Reserve Cadets, the Australian Cadet Corps and the Air Training Corps. 
Whereas the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Air Training Corps mainly consist of 'open' or community sponsored units, the Australian Cadet Corps (Army Cadets) consists of 'closed ' or school affiliated units with the exception of one experimental 'open ' unit in South Australia. 
The answers to your question are as follows: 
318. Some schools had more than one cadet unit whilst some other schools formed combined cadet units. 
See Annex A. 
179. Some schools have more than one cadet unit whilst some other schools have formed combined cadet units. 
See Annex B. 
Yes. Factors in establishing the new system of Service cadets were that it retain the best features of the previous scheme but achieve them at a lower cost to the Defence Vote. You will appreciate that a full assessment and evaluation of the new scheme will take some time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Employees in Defence establishments and laboratories other than Naval Dockyards, could belong to the unions and associations listed below. These are claimant organisations to Public Service Arbitrators' Determinations covering work in the areas in question. 
Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association Amalgamated Metal Workers' and Shipwrights' Union of Australia 
Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners of Australia 
Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and 
Draughtsmen of Australia Association of Professional Engineers of Australia Australian Journalists Association Australian Public Service Artisans ' Association Australian Public Service Association (Fourth Division 
Officers) Australian Society of Engineers Australian Workers' Union Building Workers' Industrial Union of Australia Clothing and Allied Trades Union of Australia Commonwealth Services Employees' Union (West 
Malaysia) 
Commonwealth Foremen's Association of Australia (Australian Public Service) Commonwealth Legal Professional Officers' 
Association Commonwealth Medical Officers Association Electrical Trades Union of Australia Federated Clerks Union of Australia Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association of Australasia Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australia Federated Ironworkers ' Association of Australia Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees 
Union of Australia Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia Federated Moulders' (Metals) Union of Australia Federated Ships Painters and Dockers Union of 
Australia 
Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia Merchant Service Guild of Australia Operative Painters and Decorators Union of Australia Operative Plasterers' and Plaster Workers' Federation of Australia 
Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees' Union of Australia Printing and Kindred Industries Union Professional Officers Association, Australian Public Service 
Professional Radio and Electronics Institute of Australasia Transport Workers' Union. 
International Year of the Child  (Question No. 917) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. The National Medal is awarded to recognise diligent service by all members of the Defence Force. It precedes the Imperial long service awards in the Australian order of precedence for honours and awards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have received a number of representations advocating the re-introduction of a scheme of national service. The Government's policy is that national security may demand compulsory military service, but only in circumstances where a real and direct threat to Australia requires a rapid build- up in military manpower. Such circumstances do not exist at present. 
and (3) The effect on the efficiency and capacity of the Defence Force of re-introducing national service would depend on the nature and objectives of the particular scheme proposed. A major objective of the scheme which was terminated in 1 972, for example, was to provide Regular Army units with short lead-time manpower. 
Re-introduction of such a scheme would require that substantial resources be diverted from the maintenance and planned development of our expansion base to the production of that type of manpower which, when needed, takes the least time to train. 
If funded from within the present limits of Defence expenditure, such a scheme would reduce our defence capacity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The regulations governing the award of the National Medal provide that members of the Defence Force, of an Australian police force, of an Australian fire service and of an Australian ambulance service are eligible for the award. The Defence Force comprise the Regular and Reserve Forces. Members are required to have rendered fifteen years continuous and diligent service. 
Yes, although officers of the Regular Forces had no long service awards under these arrangements. 
and (4) Not necessarily. The Government which proposed the Australian Honours system took the view that one medal was appropriate to recognise diligent service to the nation by members of certain uniformed Services. 
Soviet Naval Vessels in Indian Ocean (Question No. 937) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Monthly class/day figures of Soviet naval and naval associated ships which operated in the Indian Ocean during the period 1 May 1977 to 31 March 1978 are shown in the following table: 
The honourable member's question may be seen to better advantage if I inform him that $40m is a grossly inaccurate figure. The purchase of two secondhand aircraft is anticipated to cost in the vicinity of $ 18m, not $40m. 
The honourable member, I hope, will appreciate that in the rationalisation of No. 34 Squadron there will be a disposal of other aircraft and as a consequence of that there will be offsetting. This will happen at some time in the future. 
-The Leader of the Opposition who interjects knows perfectly well that both he and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition have access to these aircraft under precisely the same circumstances as all other Ministers. I hope that the honourable gentleman would seek to give some leadership in securing a perspective to this problem. As to the modifications that will occur, no decision has been made regarding the configuration. When a decision has been made and the details are available I will provide those details to the honourable gentleman. The principal modification, however, that will take place to these aircraft will be to fit them with extra tanks to give them a longer range. That is the major modification. I am not in a position now to state precisely where that will be done. 
I will secure detailed costs for the honourable gentleman. There has been a great deal of scepticism by some honourable gentlemen in this House and by some observers outside as to the wisdom of purchasing these aircraft. A letter from two officials that I tabled in the House the other day made reference to a security report. Regrettably I cannot make that report public. However, I will gladly make it available to the Leader of the Opposition and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for their consideration. Finally, let me say that of the 34 aircraft hijacked last year eight were hijacked for political purposes and 17 for personal reasons. I repeat to the House and, I trust, to the country that the security in the movement of the Prime Minister of this country, irrespective of his political allegiance, now is a very considerable undertaking by any airline company. It is against that background that the decision was made. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos. 1 to 5) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the six Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
My understanding of the position is as follows: In 1973 a satellite terminal at the station was removed. Pursuant to approval given by the Government in October 1977 it was replaced. I have been informed informally- I emphasise 'informally'- that the United States Government stands in contemplation of placing before the Australian Government a proposal to update that satellite terminal. That proposal relates to the period 1980 to 1981. I assure the honourable gentleman and the House that when a formal proposal has been received by the Australian Government it will be considered on its merits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not given approval for any work or undertaking which would require the application of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Dr W. A. S. Butement was Chief Scientist (not Chief Defence Scientist), Department of Supply. There is no record of  Dr Butement  having sought or been given approval to become a Director of Plessey Pacific Pty Ltd following his resignation from the Service on 3 1 December 1 966. 
The honourable member would appreciate that there was at all relevant times no obligation on  Dr Butement  to seek or receive the approval of the Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the assumption that 'domestic accommodation ' means housing my reply to the question is: 
1 ) In that context the expenditure incurred by the Department of Defence on maintenance and improvements to housing in the Holsworthy, Moorebank and Ingleburn areas since December 1 975 is $354,648. (Note the figures cover the period January 1976 to June 1978 and include estimated expenditure to the end of the financial year 1977-78). 
Initial Group Rent Scheme (GRS) rents were levied in April 1976 based on costs as at December 1975. An increase in rents, in the order of 40 per cent, was applied in June 1977. No increase in rents has been made in 1978 but Cabinet has approved increases of 9.6 per cent to be applied in July 1978. 
Under GRS there are seven groups into which all service married accommodation is grouped. Rents for each group by year and percentage increases are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) The NSW Housing Commission has provided 61 houses for Army personnel in the Ingleburn area under Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. 
The Commonwealth has purchased or constructed a total of 230 married quarters in the Ingleburn area. 
(a) (i) All 6 1 houses of the New South Wales Housing Commission in the Ingleburn area have been improved to an acceptable standard, although in most houses the toilet and bathroom are not separate as required by Services Scales and Standards of Accommodation. 
Of the 230 Commonwealth owned married quaters 56 conform to current scales and standards of accommodation 2 requires some work to bring them up to standard and this will be undertaken as soon as practicable 172 are prefabricated houses erected in the period 1950-1958. Where it is considered economical to do so they will be brought up to standard and this work is expected to commence this month-. Where it is considered uneconomical to undertake upgrading, consideration will be given to providing replacement housing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I can assure the honourable gentleman that the answer I gave to this House on the 1 1th of this month was correct in each and every particular. The answer that my colleague  Senator Withers  gave to the Senate on this matter was in reply to a question which, with very great respect to the questioner, was a most imprecisely worded question and the honourable gentleman was misled. He came to the Senate in a most forthcoming manner and said that he had been misinformed. He had answered the question regarding it as dealing with a solar observatory. That was simply not the case, and the honourable gentleman did what I regard as being the mature and manly thing and admitted that he was in error. As far as I am concerned, the House can rest assured that the answer I gave to this place on the 1 1th of this month was correct in each and every particular. I tell my honourable friend, I tell the Opposition: There has been no formal proposal placed before the Australian Government regarding the upgrading of this facility. When and if a formal proposal is placed before the Government it will be considered on its merits. 
In reply to the primary question, as I apprehend it amid the number of questions the honourable gentleman asked, namely, whether the Australian Government has given approval, the answer is no. No formal proposal has been placed before the Australian Government and when a formal proposal is placed before it it will be considered on its merits. I trust there is no ambiguity in that. As to what I said on the 16th of this month, I would hope that the honourable gentleman would do me the courtesy of reading the statement in full. The statement commenced with the following words: 
No installation of any new terminal at North- West Cape will occur without the Australian Government having first been formally approached. 
I have nothing to add to what I said in that statement. 
May I explain to the honourable gentleman who interjects that the contract that has been let relates to 2 1 satellite terminals. I want to make it, I trust, pluperfect clear to the House and to the country that no contract has been let regarding North West Cape, that is, Australian Territory. 
I am using 'pluperfect' as an adjective; I am not using it with respect to any tense. I am grateful to the honourable gentleman for his interjection. No contract has been let with respect to any installation that relates directly to Australian territory. I do not regard that as being a derogation of Australian sovereignty and I am immensely puzzled as to why the honourable gentleman who asked the question does. 
I can give the honourable gentleman the assurances that he seeks. No approval has been given by the Department. I would regard it as improper for a Department of State to presume to exercise such responsibility. I am bound to say to the honourable gentleman that no such presumption has been forthcoming. I certainly assure him that no approval has flown from me, neither has any approval come from the Australian Government. I acknowledge the genuine interest that the honourable gentleman has in this matter and I assure him, in the bluntest and frankest possible terms, that what is envisaged will in no way seek to alter the role, function or activity of the station. It will be an upgrading. 
It is very much in accord with the agreement as I understand it. May I correct the honourable gentleman about the letting of contracts. I have already referred to the fact that 21 terminal satellite contracts in the United States have been let but that does not as yet- nor will anything under contemplation- affect Australian soil. That is the position. There is no contract as at this day of grace which affects Australian soil. 
I repeat that when a formal proposal is placed before the Australian Government it will be considered on its merits. Governments are not in the habit, I trust, of seeking to accept in futuro any proposal that may be in contemplation and may have been discussed. I remind the honourable gentleman that PhilcoFord has been referred to in connection with a synthetic authority by one correspondent for the  Australian Financial Review.  I assure him that that is not the contracting company. The contracting company for the terminals, which will go into a shed or what-have-you in the United States, has been let to Comtec Laboratories of Long Island in New York. That may be a minor point of correction. I sum up by saying that there is no proposal whatsoever, in existence to my knowledge, to the knowledge of the Australian Government or to the knowledge of the Department of Defence which would in any way alter the role or the function of the North West Cape base. I hope that is clearly understood by the honourable gentleman and by those who sit behind him. 
-The provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the agreement- particularly Articles 1 and 2 as amended in 1975- are, and will continue to be, respected. I adopt the language used by one of my predecessors in this House who belonged to the honourable gentleman's Party. I refer to  Mr Morrison  who, on 21 August 1975, stated: 
A lot has been said about the concept of control. The North West Cape station is not an originating station. The messages that go out to the United States fleet in the Indian Ocean or to wherever the transmitter can contact it are in terms of transmission. I repeat that it is not an originating station. It is only a monitoring and repeating station. So this is not where the concept of effective co-ordination and consultation comes to pass. Of course the practical, realistic and effective mode of monitoring and control is certainly not a matter of intervention in the operations of the stations. The proper focus of our effort is the United States global policy. If we know what that is about, we will have an accurate understanding of the type of message being transmitted through North West Cape. 
I repeat to the honourable gentleman and to the House that no alteration has been approved by the Australian Government regarding this station. I trust that that language is absolutely clear. What is in prospect- I repeat, it remains in prospect because no approval has been given by the Australian Government- is to take out the existing satellite terminal, which is technically described as a TSC54 unit system, and replace it with an MSC6 1 system. I am not in a position to give a description of the difference between the two systems other than to say in general terms that the capability of the proposed new system is better than the existing system. That is simply the position. 
I repeat, I would have some views to offer as to communications in the broad, but at a technical level there were consultations relating to this matter as far back as 1972. There were consultations going on when the honourable gentleman's Government was in office. I offer this view- I do not offer it in any ungenerous sense: There comes a time when technical considerations must be characterised as having important political significance, and that should be communicated through policy channels as distinct from straight technical channels. I offer no sharper rebuke than that. Some of my honourable friends may ask: Why is it that you sought to offer a gentle impeachment of the United States? I believe that once the technical considerations and consultations moved from the privacy of what I might call that area and became public- in other words, once it was placed before a congressional committee- at that stage it was proper and courteous for the Australian Government which was affected to have been informed. 
I excuse myself from saying on what date  Sir Arthur  Tange said that the proposal of the United States regarding modifications to the North West Cape base was brought to his notice in an official policy sense. But what I would like to invite my honourable friend to agree with is the proposition that it is very difficult for people working constantly in a technical area to make a judgment as to when that would have a clear policy effect. Judgment on this may differ. It may differ between the honourable gentleman and me; it may differ between and among all honourable members in this House. It is very difficult to lay down in advance any a priori rules that must be observed by people working in a technical area. I can only repeat what I said yesterday: I would have found it more agreeable if, once the discussion on this issue moved out of a technical consideration, we had been notified. 
It is true that this matter was brought to the notice of Air Vice-Marshal Jordan in a technical briefing in the United States. I hope my honourable friend would show understanding to this extent: Unless a person is technically informed on these issues it is very difficult to make a judgment as to the significant impact they may have on policy considerations. It is no reflection on Air Vice-Marshal Jordan to say that he is not a technical communicator in that sense. 
I could not answer that. I will make an inquiry and inform the honourable gentleman. Both the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the Secretary to the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange, with my knowledge and approval, have given an appropriate instruction to all officers to be, as it were, a little more critical in making a determination and an assessment as to when something may move from a technical consideration into something that has policy significance. 
May I say, and I feel sure that it would be virtually the unanimous view of this House, that  Sir Arthur  Tange is one of the most distinguished civil servants ever to serve this country. The service that he has offered to government has been to governments of all political shades. I say that not to seek to offer any bromide to the honourable gentleman. I would regard it as bordering on impertinence for me to seek to rebuke  Sir Arthur  Tange for anything that he has said regarding the North West Cape issue. I think the honourable gentleman is taking too hard a line of things when he says that  Sir Arthur  Tange has said that it is not normal for technical matters to flow into policy channels. To repeat what I said to the honourable member for Corio, it becomes a matter of hard judgment as to when there should be a movement of any issue from a strict technical area into a policy area. An appropriate instruction has been issued to all senior officers to be, as it were, a little more alert about the issue. 
I ask my honourable friend to reflect upon the literally hundreds and hundreds of discussions that take place in the United States, the United Kingdom and the European countries involving Australian officers literally every day of the week. It is an extraordinarily complex Department. Surely it is not seriously suggested that every one of those discussions, which may be at a technical level, should be pushed as a matter of course instantly into a policy area and, beyond that, pushed to the Minister of the day, whoever he may be. 
I would sum up by saying to the honourable gentleman that it becomes a matter of judgment, and it is very difficult to lay down clear lines to be followed. It is a matter of individual judgment, and it is inevitable that from time to time there will be errors in the exercise of that judgment. Finally, may I say that literally hundreds of judgments of that nature are exercised every day, every week, year after year. It is only very, very occasionally that there is a significant blemish, as one may describe it on this occasion. 
The honourable member has asked I think in total seven questions. 
No, not really. 
Well, there was an occasion in this House when one question was asked, but the honourable gentleman has asked a series of questions and I will do him the courtesy as best I can of answering them. I have already answered a number of them, particularly the one dealing with what steps have been taken. I have no wish to demean or to debauch this debate but I invite the honourable gentleman to reflect on another matter to which I referred yesterday. I said that it was in 1972 that discussions first took place on this matter at a technical level. Therefore one may go through the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 when the honourable gentleman sat in a Government that had this matter under its control. I am not seeking to rebuke my predecessors in office one bit for this, but to the best of my knowledge it was in September 1972 that this matter at a technical level was brought to the nonce of an Australian defence force. In that case I think it was the Air Force. 
I am bound to tell the honourable member that the honourable and learned member for Werriwa became the Prime Minister in December 1972 so if the honourable member is seeking to do any impaling or impeaching it might be better to throw a few shafts at him. Let me put this matter at rest. I have already sought to make it clear that what is in prospect would in no way change the function or the role of this base. I can but in the utmost good faith repeat that. I was minded on Sunday to put out a Press statement which would seek to settle some of the anxieties which I know some honourable members in this House hold. Rather than put it out as a Press statement, which I would regard as a discourtesy to the House, I will read five short paragraphs which will describe the continuing function of the North West Cape facility. The replacement for the obsolescent TSC54 terminal: 
would not have any facilities to command the positioning of satellites 
would not have any facilities to control the allocation of Satellite Communications capacity to users of the Defence Satellite Communication System 
would not have telemetry and tracking functions other than those necessary in any satellite terminals including the present TSC54 terminals to keep its own antenna pointed at the communications satellite 
would- as the existing terminal- be used purely for the transmission and reception of communication traffic; and 
this transmission and reception would be done by the MSC61 through the US Defence Satellite Communication System of which it, like the TSC54 terminal would be a pan. 
-The Leader of the Opposition seeks an admission from me. I make no such admission. I say to the honourable gentleman candidly, and I trust courteously, that I would have regarded the onus for informing the Australian Government as falling clearly upon American authority. I repeat, I trust not ad nauseam, that there has been no formal proposal placed before the Australian Government. I can make nothing clearer. This is the twenty-third year that I have been in the service of this House. I have never complained about anything said to me. I have never asked for anything that has been said of me to be withdrawn. I have tried to accept those things cheerfully. I do not propose to alter that, but I want to say this: I would never consciously seek to mislead this House. I trust that, whatever meagre reputation I have, that reputation will not be assailed. 
I have had discussions with His Excellency, the American Ambassador. I am sure that my honourable friend would not expect me to reveal publicly the nature of those discussions. I say this to the Leader of the Opposition: His Excellency was kind enough to write a letter to me following the emergence of this issue. He concluded his letter by saying - 
Please, this is a serious matter. The letter concluded: 
Jim, feel free to use this letter as you see fit. 
I will quite willingly make the letter available to the honourable gentleman and to the House to read. The American Ambassador, in referring to the statement I made in reply to a question asked in this House on 1 1 Maythat is when this matter first emerged- noted that I said that no formal proposal had been placed before the Australian Government. I went on to say in reply to the question asked by the honourable member for Corio: 
I assure the honourable gentleman and the House that when a formal proposal has been received by the Australian Government it will be considered on its merits. 
The American Ambassador observed of that statement: 
Your statement in Parliament on Thursday, 1 1 May was both accurate and commendable. It was also complete. 
It would be futile to seek to hide- not that I would have any instinct for that- that there exists a difference of opinion between the United States Government and the Australian Government as to the procedures to be observed. I can only repeat to my honourable friend that my judgmenthe may differ with it- is that the moment the matter started to move from a technical consideration into the public domain - 
Will the honourable gentleman allow me to check on that? I have an idea that that was in 1 977, but I say that to my friend subject to correction. I will make an inquiry immediately as to when - 
I say to the honourable gentleman that in December 1 972- 
Pursuant to section 14 ( 1 ) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 I present the fourth supplement to the 25th report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 September 1972 dealing with progress in the final actuarial examination of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
Pursuant to section 16 (2) of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973 I present the fifth report of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Authority dealing with the general administration and working of that Act and of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948- other than part III of the Act- for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australia is a party to the 1971 Five Power communique in which Ministers undertook to 'co-operate, in accordance with their respective policies', in the field of defence. 
In accordance with the communique and in the same year, Australia entered into agreement with the Malaysian Government to co-operate in the development of its armed forces. 
Though changes have occurred in both the global and the regional situations since 1971 neither of the Governments concerned takes the view that the RAAF deployment at Butterworth has lost its relevance to their concerns. 
The Australian Government has no present intention to make any change to the deployment, which, I know from my recent visit to Malaysia, continues to be welcomed by the Malaysian Government. 
Yes. 
-Yesterday I undertook to find out for the honourable gentleman who else was present at the briefing. I trust he will forgive me when I say that I have not yet had an opportunity to do that. Speaking subject to correction, my understanding is that  Mr Pritchett  was not present. If the honourable gentleman will leave the matter with me, I will seek to convey an answer to him by lunch time today. 
Yes, he was in Washington at the time but I do not know whether he was physically present at the briefing. 
The honourable gentleman gives a very free translation of what I said yesterday. I remind him that every day of the week literally hundreds of discussions are held all over the world by officers of the Department of Defence with various officers of other countries. I also remind the honourable gentlemen that it becomes - 
One has to raise one 's voice in order to penetrate through the honourable member's concrete mind. I also remind the honourable gentleman that I - 
I cannot take the pressure! I am bound to say to the honourable gentleman that if I have offended him I withdraw. I suppose the most charitable thing one could say is that his mind is a museum of defects. I also remind the honourable gentleman that yesterday I pointed to the profound human difficulty of characterising as to when technical discussions should properly be referred for policy decisions. If the honourable gentleman is genuinely having difficulty in understanding that, after Question Time if he accompanies me I will buy him a cup of tea and try to sort him out. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  read his speech to the House. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  read his speech to the House. There are two remarkable distinctions between the two readings. There was more vigour in the reading that came from the lips of the honourable member for Lalor and fortunately, or inadvertently for him, he used one phrase that points up the humbug in this whole business. The honourable member for Lalor used several words that the honourable member for Corio did not use. He used several words that give a clear perspective to this whole matter. May I remind my honourable friend that he used the words 'if there is any change'. That is the point at issue. When I was first questioned about this matter in the House on the 1 1th of this month I had this to say- I shall read the words again: 
My understanding of the position is as follows: In 1973 a satellite terminal at the station was removed. Pursuant to approval given by the Government in October 1977 it was replaced. I have been informed informally- I emphasise informally '-that the United States stands in contemplation of placing before the Australian Government a proposal to update that satellite terminal. That proposal relates to the period 1980 to 1981. 1 assure the honourable gentleman and the House that when a formal proposal has been received by the Australian Government it well be considered on its merits. 
May I repeat the last part of that sentence: 
. when a formal proposal has been received by the Australian Government it will be considered on its merits. 
Let me say this to the honourable member for Corio and the honourable member for Lalor: There is not one syllable of that answer that I would seek to retract or to modify in any shape or form. There has been no proposal put before the Australian Government. I have stated that; I will continue to state it. The honourable member for Lalor wants to sweep back to that savage form of punishment where weights were placed upon a person in order to persuade from the person a certain confession- peine forte et dure. That was abolished by statute in 1771 but the honourable gentleman wants to persist in placing weights on me. I say to him that he can place the Tower of Pisa on me and I will not alter the answer I gave to this House, I will not alter it one bit. The honourable gentlemen, and all who support them in this frolic, remind me that I consider a man who launches a breach of promise suit as being remarkably strange, but a man who seeks to launch a breach of promise suit before his proposal has been accepted I can describe only as being remarkably stupid. I am bound to say further that it hurts me no end to put both of my honourable friends into that category. 
Where did this start? I have always had a preference for a number of things in this world, and frankness and fairness are amongst them. I turn to the latter. Certainly I have defended my Department. Certainly I have defended the officers of my Department. I give but one further assurance: I will continue to defend them. They cannot speak for themselves. 
By the time I have finished with the miserable case that has been put against me the honourable member for Capricornia will wish that he had continued in private practice. Where did this start? It started in a journal, this bastion of patriotism, the  Australian Financial Review.  Listen to this: 
Australia gets new US defence station. 
That is positive. There is no ambiguity about that. It was written by a gentleman, to give him a very extravagant description,  Mr Brian  Toohey. It continued: 
Congressional hearings in the United States have revealed that a ground station is being built in Australia. 
The honourable member for Lalor would agree with me that that is the present continuing tense, is being built'. No such satellite station has been built or is being built. So much for  Mr Toohey. 
I listened to the charge against me in silence. I hope that honourable members will take the rebuttal in silence if they can muster the courage to do so. In the same article, he continued: 
The US company, Philco Ford, has contracts for a worldwide system of ground stations. 
On he goes. The fact is that the present satellites terminal was built by Philco Ford. A person reading that would say that this was a desperately well-informed journalist. He refers to Philco Ford with a glorious touch of verisimilitudeergo, it is true,  Mr Toohey  knows everything. This man has an odious technique. He has perfected that technique. He has practised it for years and does it instinctively. The next day he returns to it: 
The initial ministerial response in Parliament, based on official advice, was to deny that any such satellite terminal existed or was proposed. 
A person reading that would say: 'that was Killen, the Minister for Defence'. He did not have the intellectual integrity to say it was a Minister representing him in another place, in the Senate. I invite any fair-minded person to look at the question that was put to  Senator Withers  in another place and not to agree with me that there was ample opportunity for him to conclude that the imprecisely worded question referred to a solar observatory. The very moment that my colleague was apprised of the facts he went into the Senate and quietly and purposefully said that he was wrong. But this has continued, this odious technique of suppressio veri, suggestio falsisuppress the truth, make the false suggestion, you will find some more poor mutt along the way who will believe in it. So it has gone on. Let me say this, as far as the officers of my Department are concerned: I answer to the Parliament and accept completely ministerial responsibility. If I had the slightest doubt that I had misled the Parliament I would apologise to the Parliament. If I believed that my error had been grievous enough I would seek to withdraw from the Parliament. But, there is the answer that I have given and there is the answer that I will stand by. I come to other techniques that have been practiced. The other night we had the spectacle of two journalists interviewing each other on television- Mike Willesee and Laurie Oakes- both gripped with a fierce sense of political neutrality. The interview proceeded in this way: 
Laurie? 
Yes, Mike. 
Can you hear me Laurie? Is the Minister in big trouble? 
Yes, Mike. 
Would you go so far as to say very big trouble. 
Well, yes, Mike. 
How would you describe it? 
If you were to put them on display at the old Tivoli Theatre you would pack it out for a month. There it was. My honourable friend, the honourable member for Corio, has used harsh language. I have used it occasionally myself, and I do not complain about it. My honourable friend put out what is rather exuberantly described as a Press statement, in which he said: 
Despite clear evidence to the contrary, the Defence Minister Killen insists that there has not yet been any agreement to build a new satellite ground station at North West Cape. 
I say to the honourable gentleman with the utmost felicity and friendship that I do not know how on earth I am to convince him. No agreement has been made. No agreement will be made until the Australian Government, irrespective of the kidney of government- his politics or mine- has had an opportunity to consider it. He has said to me in a reproachful way: But this has been under consideration since 1 972. That is perfectly true. 
It is about time the honourable member got some heavy sedation. 
I am glad that my honourable friend notices the difference. These techniques are under consideration for years and years. They may never ever be put into operation. But, in 1973, there was a re-negotiation of the agreement. Who did it? 
Yes. The honourable member is well informed. Full marks. We were told on that occasion that 'this has been the most searching inquiry ever made; Australian sovereignty has been protected to the hilt'. And what statement was put out on that occasion? The honourable member for Lalor this morning referred to the statement put out by  Mr Barnard,  for whom I have both affection and admiration, and  Mr Schlesinger,  the then United States Secretary of State for Defense. 
I am not in the habit, as most members of Parliament would know, of divulging personal conversations, but I will say that the Leader of the Opposition has written a letter to me on this matter. He has given it a classification which in my opinion he is not entitled to give it. He has called it 'secret'. Private members of Parliament and the Leader of the Opposition cannot write a letter and give it a classification of that nature. If any honourable gentleman wants to write to me and wants me to respect their confidentiality they need use only two words- personal and confidential. 
Well, three. I am pleased that the honourable member at long last can count. If the Leader of the Opposition wants to take away the synthetic privacy or confidentiality of that letter, I invite him to table the letter and I will reply to it.  His  letter illustrates the appalling ignorance of the Labor Party regarding the North West Cape facility. The view seems to be that every message that goes through that facility is heard by Australian ears and seen by Australian eyes. Both  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Schlesinger  in their agreement in 1973, in the most cogent and clear terms, identified the fact that there will be preserved national identity with respect to communications through the two individual national offices which are held on the base. 
I say to the honourable member for Lalor because he raised the point that there is no change envisaged in the role of the base. I emphasise the word 'envisaged ' because that is where the literal truth remains. There is no changed role envisaged for the proposed satellite terminal 
MSC61. It differs only in character in the sense that the new satellite terminal will be a great improvement on the existing satellite terminal, the TSC54, the one to which the honourable gentleman referred. That is the only difference. What has been said today shows in a regretful fashion that there has been a clear misunderstanding by the members of the Australian Labor Party of this facility and I am left with the clear impression after a few weeks interrogation by the Labor Party that it does not like the base. I now want to read two statements to the House. The first is: 
The building of the base which is close to the area in which the National Liberation Movement of the peoples is being intensified is a particular danger for the countries of South East Asia. 
The other statement is: 
The radio station to be established will be for war purposes and not for the purpose of peace. 
One of those statements came from the  Red Star,  the official paper of the Soviet Red Army. The other statement was uttered in this House by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I will be surprised if honourable members can pick the author of the second statement. The Labor Party has set itself upon a very dangerous course. It is seeking to disturb in a quite needless way the United States-Australia alliance. As far as those on this side of politics are concerned, we will preserve it. 
Today I wrote to my friend the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in response to a letter he wrote to me. I ask leave of the House to incorporate my reply to him in  Hansard. 
Leave not granted. 
I table the letter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Service records do not indicate the number of Australian Prisoners of war who were in Nagasaki at the time of the atomic bomb explosion in August 1 94S nor do these records show how many of these prisoners of war are still living or have died as a result of the explosion. 
However, the Department of Veterans' Affairs advises that a survey was carried out by C. A. K. Chee and P. L. T. Ilbery from the Cancer Institute in Melbourne of radiation damage to the lymphocytes of the then surviving Australian prisoners of war who were in Nagasaki at the time of the explosion. 
Based on this report the answer to your question is as follows: 
27. 
(a) 22 as at October 1975. 
Not known. Of the original 27 prisoners of war who were in Nagasaki at the time of the atomic explosion two died from cancer of the stomach in 1 965 and 1 970 respectively, one died from cancer of the bladder in 1965, one died from an aortic aneurysm in 1969 and one was drowned in 1974. It is not known if the effects of the atomic explosion contributed to these deaths as the survey was not commenced until 1974. 
Planning for the Use of Sewage  (Question No. 944) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Actual prime equipment cost of each Leopard Tank at the time of delivery (acceptance at factory): 
I assure the honourable gentleman and the House that I do not approve of the clandestine use of tape recording machines. My clear understanding is that the General to whom he referred was informed in the most specific of terms that the conversation he was having with the then Chief of the General Staff was being taped and that he clearly understood that fact. As evidence that he understood it, he thanked the then Chief of the General Staff for taping the conversation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) As part of a major reference I put before the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay, an independent advisory body to the Minister for Defence under judicial chairmanship, that Committee has presented its report to me on the allocation to appropriate pay levels of all Service other rank employment categories. The report has been released. 
The Committee has recommended that certain categories, including those listed by the honourable member, be placed in a pay level lower than that they are now in. The Committee has also recommended that several employments be moved to a higher pay level. 
The report is currently under detailed examination by my Department and the Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Deliveries of Leopard Tanks commenced on 14 September 1976 and, up to 7 December 1977, 73 had been delivered. Of these, 62 were Gun Tanks, 6 Recovery Vehicles and5 Bridge Layers. The prime equipment unit costs of these tanks, as paid up to the time of delivery, have depended on the date of delivery, the variant concerned and, in the case of gun tanks, whether 1 5 per cent was retained pending later fitment of the Laser Rangefinder. These costs have varied between $661,637 and $937,676, the lower figure relating to a gun tank for which15 per cent was withheld. Deliveries of tanks are continuing and, by April 1 978 a further 10 had been delivered for which the detailed costs have not yet been fully analysed. 
Actual prime equipment cost of each Leopard Tank at the time of delivery (acceptance at factory): 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Servicewomen may be employed when necessary on active service but not on combat duties. 
In the Navy, servicewomen are not employed in sea-going or aircrew billets or in employments which would adversely affect the male sea/shore roster which allows male members regular shore postings. 
Army servicewomen do not serve in divisional or corps units except corps medical units. They are not employed in military skill categories nor do they carry weapons. 
In the Air Force servicewomen are not employed as aircrew or in the defence ground category or mustering. 
Because of the non-combatant nature of their employment, which is the chief constraint in the wider use of servicewomen, female numbers in some categories may be limited to maintain the operational efficiency of the Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) If, as I presume, the question is whether a member will be required in future to pay contributions for 25 years instead of 20 years to qualify for a retirement pension, the answer is no. 
Taxation matters are the responsibility of the Treasurer to whom this part of the question might be directed. I draw the honourable member's attention to a reply by the Treasurer to the honourable member for Tangney on 24 May 1 978  (Hansard,  page 2392). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An investigation has commenced into the possible acquisition of land in New South Wales for a major training area. 
(a) This is the plan. 
The Government is aware of the need to minimise noise in the Holsworthy training area. Every effort is made to reduce inconvenience. Army have progressively reduced explosive charges to the minimum practical, consistent with essential live firing practices and the frequency and duration of practices is restricted as much as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The decision in principle to close the Australian Services Canteens Organisation was to be announced after the staff had been informed, and after the unions which represented staff members, had been consulted. Media inquiries commencing on the day staff were informed, have made a formal statement unnecessary. Further action regarding the closing will not be taken until a program for the run down and the alternative canteens arrangements are worked out. 
and (3) One Press report stated that the Organisation was to be closed because of heavy financial losses. The Managing Director of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation corrected this statement, in a subsequent edition of the paper. 
Ethanol from Sugar Beet  (Question No. 1427) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The rules for the use of the special aircraft of No. 34 Squadron are those which were tabled in the House of Representatives on 6 March 1973 by the then Minister for Defence, the Honourable Lance Barnard, M.P. In all cases where a request for travel does not meet the general criteria laid down in the rules, the matter is for decision by the Prime Minister. 
The Department of Defence raises quarterly accounts on the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet in respect of hours flown and other costs incurred by No. 34 Squadron aircraft in transporting entitled persons. Costs which are additional to normal RAAF operations are recovered, and for this purpose hourly rates, which comprise fuel, civil contractor servicing and spares costs are established for each of the three types of aircraft operated by the Squadron. Other charges recovered include the actual costs of rations consumed, aircraft handling and landing fees, cleaning costs, and any other marginal or extra costs associated with the carriage of entitled persons which are not normally the responsibility of the Department of Defence. 
The rules provide that 'where a Minister or the Leader of the Opposition is using an aircraft of No. 34 Squadron to visit a particular area it is in order for him to be accompanied by the Local Federal Member for that area'. Shadow ministers are not specifically provided for in the rules. 
No special provision is made in the rules for the use of aircraft of No. 34 Squadron during election periods. 
It has been the practice for the Prime Minister to make available an aircraft to the Leader of the Opposition for the election period. 
An aircraft has also been made available where possible to another nominated senior representative of the Opposition. 
Apart from the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and (when in Government) the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party, Ministers are normally only granted the use of an aircraft where there is a clear requirement directly related to their portfolio responsibilities. 
There is no provision in the rules for the use of No. 34 Squadron aircraft by individual senators, other than Ministers. 
It should be noted that in the broad context of the rules, senators and members, other than Ministers, are on occasions permitted to travel under emergency or special circumstances where the approving authority considers that this mode of travel is justified and the Prime Minister has agreed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Aeroplane- 
June 1976-USA/Canada 
April 1978- Malaysia/Singapore 
Ship- 
Nil. 
Petroleum Products: Use in Primary Industry (Question No. 1245) 
The short answer is yes, and I do not propose to ruin the answer by saying anything further. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903 I present the report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1 February 1977 to 3 1 January 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 13 November 1977. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by my Depanment. The Australian Services Canteens Organisation which operates the canteen service for the Army and Air Force provides a canteen service at Victoria 
Barracks in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. These are regarded as Service establishments. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 

The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present situation at the Saltash Range does not introduce any significant restrictions to operations from Williamtown Air Force Base. However, residential development around the range, if continued without restriction, could seriously affect the RAAF's future use of the range. 
Yes. 
The functional capacity of Williamtown Air Force Base as both a training and an operational base is not at present jeopardised. The Defence Department issued, in August 1976, a Noise Exposure Forecast (NEF) for both RAAF Base Williamtown and the Range. Copies of this NEF have been made available to the NSW Planning and Environment Commission, the Port Stephens Shire Council, the Department of Administrative Services and the Department of Transport. Application of the NEF by responsible planning authorities is an important step in maintaining compatibility between aircraft operations and the local communities. In addition it should limit residential development in areas of high noise intensity. 
Special efforts are necessary to limit further the development, for residential purposes, of that land inside the 25 NEF contour ( the highest acceptable level before which caution in development should be exercised). In this regard, the Port Stephens Shire Council has agreed to include information relating to aircraft noise and land use planning with every relevant building approval. If further residential development continues to the extent where operations from RAAF Base Williamtown are threatened, the only course of action may be the acquisition of additional land to provide a buffer zone. 
Furthermore there is a need to restrict the height to which structures may be erected on neighbouring land, in order to protect low flying aircraft and radio installations. If structures are erected in uncontrolled fashion, RAAF operations may be affected. Thus, control is proposed to be exercised through the Defence Areas Regulations which are currently being prepared for promulgation. 
The Department of Defence has concluded agreements with the Department of Transport for Military Air Space in the Williamtown area. These agreements, now incorporated in the 'Joint Aviation Standards and Procedures', are sufficient to protect the Defence interests for the foreseeable future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
338. 
368. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A total of five incidents occurred during the period May 1977 to May 1978. 
and (3) The incidents were as follows: 
On 14 October 1977, a recruit at 1 Recruit Training Battalion, Kapooka, New South Wales, stole a quantity of rifle ammunition and pyrotechnics from the unit magazine. He was apprehended and the items recovered. This unit had permanent security coverage. 
On 15 October 1977, an Army Reserve unit depot (111 Air Dispatch Squadron) at Richmond, New 
South Wales, was broken into and a quantity of blank ammunition and pyrotechnics were stolen. The items were recovered by the New South Wales Police and three civilians charged with the offence. This unit had part-time security coverage. 
On 18 October 1977, a storehouse was broken into at 33 1 Supply Company at Mangalore, Victoria and a quantity of eleven anti-personnel mines were stolen. The items have since been recovered. One arrest has been made and other persons are being sought. The unit had permanent security coverage. 
On 22 October 1977, an SLR rifle was stolen from a member of 1 3 1 Divisional Locating Battery while the unit was on exercise in Townsville, Queensland, area. The weapon was later recovered from the residence of another member of the same unit who admitted the offence. 
On 18 May 1978, the unit armoury and signal store was broken into at an Army Reserve unit depot ( 10 Medium Regiment) at Geelong, Victoria. Four SLR rifles and five bayonets were stolen. All items less one rifle have been recovered and five civilians have been charged with the theft by Victoria Police. The unit had no security patrols at night. 
The anti-personnel mines excepted, the small amount of Defence Force material which was lost was of a kind that could have been acquired from the many commercial and industrial premises which stock firearms, explosives and the like. On the whole the incidents reported do not support a suggestion that criminals or terrorists would see Defence depots as a more readily exploitable prime source of weapons of interest to them. 
Nonetheless, the Defence Force takes all such incidents very seriously and all are thoroughly investigated. Security arrangements are kept under continuous review, and improvements as resources permit is a continuing activity. 
Departmental Services in the Northern Territory: Payment to Aircraft Operators  (Question No.  1295) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An Army helicopter was provided at the request of the Victorian Police to carry police observers watching over the funeral arrangements. No civil helicopter was available at the time. Other Defence Force assistance was directed to meeting the military ceremonial requirements for the funeral at the request of the Depanment of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The latter duties gave rise to circumstances in which servicemen guided official vehicles but did not comprehend any assumption of general traffic control or security functions. 
(a) Ceremonial: 420 plus the bands of the RAN and Third Military District. 
Provision of Aircraft: 1 pilot. 
Elements from: 1 Armoured Regiment: 2 Signals Regiment; 2-15 Field Regiment; HQ Third Military District; 161 Reconnaissance Squadron (helicopter); RAAF Laverton; RAN Cerberus. 
See(l). 
(a) See (1). 
Depanment of Defence. 
It is an established practice for elements of the Defence Force to perform a military ceremonial role at state funerals when requested to do so by the responsible civil authority. There have been many instances in which Service helicopters have been used to transport personnel at the request of civil agencies. 
See(l). 
(a) to (c) No special authority is conferred on servicemen so employed. 
The ceremonial carriage of personal weapons is a normal practice for military guards on ceremonial occasions. Live ammunition is not issued. Use of other Defence Force equipment is authorised to meet the requirements of the particular event. 
The application and administration of the civil law (e.g. by the Victoria Police and by the civil courts) were not affected in any way by the arrangements for Defence Force assistance in the state funeral. 
Statutory Authorities Responsible to the Prime Minister  (Question No.  1345) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Where it is an economical proposition, all types of waste are recycled through contract or by disposal action administered by the Department of Administrative Services. 
Where it is considered that there are insufficient quantities of waste generated or the distance from recycling outlets is too great then all waste is either burnt or destroyed under local arrangement. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman 's question is as follows: 
Yes. Orders were placed in January 1978 for 41 rangefinders. 
An experimental rangefinder has been made by WRE but it has not been developed for production. 
An early estimate indicated that the Australian system could have been developed at reasonable cost but further investigation showed this to be optimistic. 
The Australian system was considered but at the time of decision to purchase, the lead time for development and production was at least two and a half years too long for Army requirements. 
Purchase of the Australian system would have given a small stimulus to Australian industry but only forty-one rangefinders were purchased. The WRE rangefinder will be receiving consideration for further development to meet possible longer term requirements of rangefinders for other arms as well as future artillery tasks. 
Beef Processing and Marketing: Inquiry by Prices Justification Tribunal  (Question No. 1501) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Six RAN officers and 4 1 sailors. 
Article 14 of the Agreement provides for Australian financial contributions as follows: 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the construction, maintenance and operation of the Station will be without cost to the Australian Government (other than costs incurred directly by the Australian Government on behalf of its armed forces). The Australian Government will reimburse the United States Government for such expenses as the co-operation agencies of the two Governments agree should be met by Australia for the use of the Station by its forces. ' 
The Government takes the view that information needing the policy attention of the Government should be conveyed by the United States through normal policy channels rather than military operational channels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the Defence Organisation the responsibility for conveying information required by the Minister rests with the Secretary on policy matters and the Chief of Defence Force Staff on military operational matters. 
Yes. (3 Numerous technical personnel exchange information for a variety of purposes with United States military personnel in both bilateral and multi-national meetings, in Australia and overseas. The Minister, the Head of the Depanment and senior Departmental officials are provided with information derived from these discussions when they are perceived to involve matters of policy significance. The security clearance required for participation in discussions by military personnel or officials depends on the particular subject to be discussed. The Secretary is cleared to receive any information he may require. The question of clearance does not arise in the case of the Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following a United States Government initiative the Australian Government formally agreed with the Government of the United Sates in June 1963 that the North West Cape communications station should be established. The Agreement was formally amended, at the initiative of the Australian Government on 14 January 1975. The Agreement is for a period of at least 25 years (terminating in June 1988) and thereafter subject to 180 days notice in writing. The station is inter alia an integral element in the communication system of the Royal Australian Navy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Present and planned capabilites of the Australian Defence Force are considered appropriate in presently assessed strategic circumstances. 
The Joint Statement issued by the Australian Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and the US Secretary of Defence  (Mr Schlesinger)  on 10 January 1974 stated 'The Ministers recalled the provisions of Article III of the ANZUS Treaty and confirmed the importance to both Governments of urgent consultations in case of a developing international crisis'.  Mr Barnard  released on the same date a statement which included the following: 

 Mr Barnard said that in the discussions he had raised the question of prompt advice to Australia should the alert status of any US Defence installation in Australia be changed. He said: "I am pleased to say that the US Secretary of Defense has agreed that future procedure will ensure that the Australian Government is promptly advised in this respect ' '. ' 
The Prime Minister would be informed when any such advice was received from the United States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No new installation has been proposed by the United States Government to the Australian Government. 
See 1 above. 
No funds for installation of an MSC-61 terminal at North West Cape have been appropriated by Congress. 
Article 1 of the Agreement of 9 May 1963 was amended on 14 January 1975 to read '. . . The Station will be operated by the armed forces of the two Governments as a joint facility'. Article 3 (2) of the Agreement states 'Except with the express consent of the Australian Government the Station will not be used other than for the purposes of defence communications . . .'. The Station is used by the Australian Navy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No United States Government proposal to alter facilities at the North West Cape base has been received by the Australian Government. 
See(l) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is normal practice for discussions to occur at technical levels between defence officers and their counterparts in other countries without automatic reference to policy levels in the Defence Depanment when the substantive matters under discussion are understood to fall within the limits of established policy. If new policy is involved there would be reference of the matter to the policy level in the Depanment. 
Subject to the facts of the case they can do so, subject to ( 1 ) above. 
In March 1978 the US Government entered into contracts for production of MSC-6 1 satellite ground terminals for international use. No funds for installation of an MSC-6 1 terminal at North West Cape have been appropriated by US Congress. 
No-see also (3) above. 
Defence Personnel located in Washington, D.C.  (Question No. 1304) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Seventy-five (established permanent posts) engaged largely in procurement, science, training and operational liaison activities. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government does not rely on monitoring of some 21 Senate Committees, 114 Sub-committees and 33 House Committees and 183 Sub-committees holding an average of 20-25 hearings a day to obtain information about Administration proposals which are capable of being conveyed by the Administration direct to the Australian Government. (See answer to Question 1494 (6)). For these reasons monitoring and reporting of such matters, arising in these hearings, can only be a part of the wide span of duties of the Head of Defence Force Staff Washington. 
A schedule listing 21 locations which included the name H. E. Holt was submitted to one of the Sub-committees referred to above. The US Administration did not inform any Australian defence official of the relevant hearing or of the tendering of the document. No report was sent. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) A delegation was engaged in discussions on 1 4 and 1 5 November 1977. It comprised: 

 Mr W. B. Pritchett (Leader) AVM J. C. Jordan Major-General P. Falkland  Mr R.  H. Mathams 
A separate military delegation attended US-Australian Joint Staff Talks in Washington 21-22 November 1 977. That delegation comprised: 
AVM J. C. Jordan (Leader) Major-General P. Falkland. 
See (1)above 
A series of briefings on military operational matters was given to the delegation attending the US-Australian Joint Staff talks (see ( 1 ) above). A matter referred to in one of those briefings was technical improvements to international communications. North West Cape was mentioned as one site under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The extent of any surplus funds remaining when ASCO is wound up will depend on the arrangements approved for the alternative canteens services and the fulfilling of obligations by ASCO to its staff in accordance with awards or other agreements that may be negotiated in conjunction with the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 560 plus 468 casual staff. 
(a) 73, (b) 265 (excluding casual staff), (c) 82 (excluding casual staff). 
Not known. All practicable assistance in finding alternative employment will be given to staff who become redundant. 
When the Services proposals for their alternative canteens systems have been received, consideration will be given to their method of staffing. The guidelines given to the Services do not envisage canteen services similar to those provided by ASCO. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (4) When the Services proposals for their alternative canteens arrangements have been received, full consideration will be able to be given to how they will be staffed. The Services have been directed to have particular regard to economy in the use of all resources, particularly manpower, in their proposals. 
Service Personnel in Isolated Areas (Question No. 1493) 
The answer to the honourable gentleman 's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Services have been asked to recommend the level of services necessary for Service personnel and their families in any isolated areas. 
and (3) No decision on level of service have been taken; these will depend on the Services recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See my answer to question without notice from  Mr Humphreys;  page 2457,  Hansard,  25 May 1978. 
An AN/MSC-61 satellite terminal if installed at H. E. Holt would form part of the Defence Satellite Communications System. See answer to Senate Question 475 ( I ). 
See answer to Question 1 302 ( 1 ). 
See 4 above. 
The Australian Government considers that where US technical planning in respect of H. E. Holt bears actually or potentially upon the policy concerns of the Australian Government the fact of that planning should be brought directly and in a timely way to the attention of the Australian Defence Department through agreed and designated US Department of Defense and Australian Department of Defence policy channels. These do not include intelligence channels. Improved procedures to meet the Australian Government's needs are at present under detailed discussion with US authorities. 
Australian Services Canteens Organisation  (Question No. 1S03) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government intends that the community store facilities at Woomera should continue to be carried on as required to meet the needs of the local population. Proposals for the alternative service and its method of operation are being developed. 
Should any staff become redundant as a result of the change in canteen arrangements, all practicable assistance will be given to them. 
I move: 
That the House concurs in the resolution transmitted in Message No. 103  or  the Senate relating to the proposed appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the provisions and the operation of the Family Law Act 1975. 
The resolution reads as follows: 
That- 
) A Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon- 
the provisions, and the operation, of the  Family Law Act  1975, with particular regard to: 
the ground of divorce and whether there should be other grounds; 
maintenance, property and custody proceedings including: 
the bases on which orders may be made in such proceedings; and 
the enforcement of orders in such proceedings; 
the organisation of the Family Court of Australia and its conduct of proceedings; 
the conduct of proceedings by State and Territory courts exercising jurisdiction under the Act; 
whether the Family Court should be more open to the public when hearing proceedings, and whether publication of the details of proceedings under the Act should be permitted; 
vi ) the services provided by: 
the counsellors attached to the Family Courts; and 
approved voluntary marriage counselling organisations; 
the cost of proceedings under the Act; and 
any other matters under the Act referred by the Attorney-General. 
The Committee consists of five members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Prime Minister, three members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, three Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and two Senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
Every nomination of a member of the Committee be notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
The Committee elect as Chairman one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
The Committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the Committee, the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at the meeting. 
The Committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its members and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the Committee is empowered to examine. 
The Committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers, and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any adjournment of the Parliament. 
Seven members of the Committee constitute aquorum of the Committee, and a majority of the members of a subcommittee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
In matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  when acting as  Chairman  have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
10) The Committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
The Committee or a sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
The Committee report by 31 December 1979 and any member of the Committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
The foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
14) A Message be sent to the House of Representatives acquainting it of this Resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
I note that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has circulated proposed amendments to the resolution transmitted in Senate Message No. 103. I suggest, therefore, that it may suit the House for the resolution to be divided by clauses in order that separate questions may be put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the amounts paid to the Services from the profits or surplus funds earned or accrued by ASCO (Column 1), and the balance of those profits or surplus funds retained for the on going of the business (Column 
For the information of honourable members I present details of special flights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1 January 1978 to 30 June 1978. Copies of this report are available from the Table Office. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
by leave- I will be making a statement on planned defence expenditure to the House during the Estimates debate. However, there are three matters of detailed decision made by the Government on which I wish to inform the House. I state them now as they impinge on conditions of service in the Defence Force. They concern rations and quarters charges, the reengagement bounty, and postal concessions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) At the end of July there were 142 officers of the Department of Defence, and 2,762 members of the Defence Force (Navy 347, Army 642 and Air Force 1,773), posted outside Australia. This is indicative of figures which obtain at any one time although numbers in particular locations fluctuate according to need and as personnel proceed to and from postings. 
The largest single component is the approximately 1,500 personnel (mostly Air Force) posted in Malaysia and Singapore pursuant to the Five Power Arrangements. 
About 400 personnel are normally on posting in connection with Australian defence co-operation programs in Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Fiji and Tonga. The large majority of these personnel are in Papua New Guinea. A further 60 personnel (approx.) occupy postings with UN Forces in Kashmir and the Middle East. 
The remainder comprise mainly: 
personnel posted overseas to undergo training, on exchange duty or in connection with materiel acquisition, supply and other projects; most postings in these categories are in the US and UK; other countries include New Zealand, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Italy and Thailand. 
Service attaches and their staffs maintained in Australian Embassies and High Commissions in 1 5 countries, viz, Burma, Canada, France, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea (Republic of), New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, UK and US. 
Nurses in the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No. 845) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No charge is levied on students by the RAAF for laundry at the RAAF Apprentice School at Laverton. 
Six new washing machines have been installed and are operating. Three high volume dryers are on site and work is proceeding to install them. 
On1 March 1978 only one washing machine and no drying machines were operable. On 1 May 1978 three washing machines and no drying machines were operable. 
The full complement of the apprentice barracks is 1 52 students. However, only 77 students were present on the dates referred to. The availability of washing machines per capita were: 
1 March 1978- one machine per 77 students 
b ) 1 May 1 978- one machine per 26 students. 
RAAF investigation does not show that apprentices have repaired these machines at their own expense although some students currently on leave or who have now left the school may have effected repairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following rifle or firing ranges are located in or adjacent to built up areas (including rifle club ranges covered by 'Australian Rifle Club Regulations'): 27 Big bore rifle ranges, 72 Small bore rifle ranges, 1 Field firing range, and 2 Air weapons ranges. 
The following ranges have prescribed danger areas which include crown or private lands accessible to the public: 3 1 Big bore ranges 5 Small bore ranges, and 1 Field firing range. 
There  are plans for relocating  8 ranges for various reasons, e.g. land tenure, or in one case for long term safety precautions. These are: 
Dalby 
Busselton 
Bunbury 
Tamworth (big and small bore) 
Repton 
Williamstown 
Yea 
Warrnambool 
Notes: A. The term overshoot area, has been taken to mean a specified danger area within, below or over which there may exist activities constituting potential danger to aircraft flying over it, or to persons, property and traffic on land or sea. 
The term general public usage has been taken to include situations where private individuals may enter restricted areas from which the general public normally do not have unrestricted access. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1976-$936,496; (b) 1977-$ 1,294,45 7; (c) 1978-$747,738. 
745,939 hours. 
A total of 389 women resigned or retired over the period January 1976 to May 1978. 
Figures are unavailable from records within my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority; 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board; 
Trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund; 
The Trustees of the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund; 
The Trustees of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund; 
The Trustees of the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund; 
Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust; 
Australian Services Canteens Organisation Board of Management; 
Royal Australian Navy Central Canteens Board. 
(a) Funds were appropriated only for the entities named at ( 1 ) (a) and (b) above and are covered under Division 306 by the Department of Finance. A dissection of costs for the two authorities is not maintained and the annual costs of both are determined by the Australian Government Retirement Benefit Office at the end of each financial year. Costs were determined as $1,420,188 in 1975-76 and $1,438,300 in 1976-77; 
In accordance with the relevant Acts, payments to beneficiaries are met from Special Appropriations as a one line item. The amounts in respect of the years cited are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Servicemen are permitted to take long service leave as it falls due provided that the absence of the member is not detrimental to Service interests. 
Servicemen will be taxed on accumulated long service leave in accordance with the provisions of the new Budget. 
Taxation exemptions will not apply to servicemen unable to exhaust their long service leave before leaving the Services. 
I certainly give the honourable member an assurance that there will be no breakdown in the academic training of those who, in the future, will become officers in the Army of this country. I must tell my honourable friend that I am not aware in particular of the allegations that he has made. I give him a clear undertaking that I will treat his question as on notice and supply him with an answer this day. 
Pursuant to the open tender procedures, in 1973 an IBM 168 computer was leased and installed in 1975 at the Defence research centre at Salisbury. It was a condition of that contract that the lease be renewed every 12 months. Pursuant to that condition, that is precisely what has taken place now. I assure the honourable gentleman that there is no intention on the part of the Department of Defence, nor indeed on the part of the Government, to resile from the undertaking given that a new computer processor to be installed at Salisbury will go to open tender. I will explain to the honourable gentleman what has taken place. The central computer processor, the 168, has been replaced by central computer processor 3033. 
I acknowledge the claim made by some computer manufacturers that that central computer processor is compatible. But I would point out to the honourable gentleman that to go to open tender for that central computer processor would involve 12 to 18 months. In the meantime the specifications and the tender procedures for the supply of the entire computer processors, would be only a few months away. Finally, I assure the 
House that the installation of the central computer processor 3033 is saving the nation approximately $250,000 a year. I would have thought that that would be a matter for congratulation and not for complaint. 
I admit to having more than my fair share of weaknesses but to be disloyal to the Chiefs of Staff is not one of them. I repudiate the accusations in the most explicit of forms. If there should linger any doubt in the mind of the honourable gentleman- if he has any mind- I invite him to ask any of the Chiefs of Staff how they regard their present Minister. After his second attempt to write a question- of course, he traces it back to a journal published in the name of the Liberal Party- may I assure the honourable gentleman of this: I always regard it as one of the rescuing features of the doctrine of the Liberal philosophy that it is capable of tolerating criticism, even though it may come from those who are desperately misguided. 

 - Mr Speaker, I hope you will understand me when I say that I am almost overwhelmed by this burst of popularity. My attention has been drawn to the AuditorGeneral's report. Some of the criticisms he has made are severe indeed. I have always believed that for a criticism to be acceptable it should meet two requirements- fairness and accuracy. In this instance the Auditor-General's report does not meet either of those requirements. I take the principal criticism to which the honourable member for Petrie has referred. The report of the Auditor-General states: 
At Amberley, alarm systems on the FI 1 1C maintenance hangar were isolated during normal working hours, leaving the building unprotected during critical periods. 
I take it that what the Auditor-General means by the term 'isolated' is that the alarm systems were shut off. They are shut off during working hours for eminently good reasons. The systems are infra-red and smoke detector in character and they are extremely sensitive. For example, a revolving beacon on an aircraft or a man welding would set off the system and, peculiarly, FI 11 aircraft and airmen working on them do not like being overwhelmed by foam. That is the simple reason why the alarm systems are turned off. May I say that I have an unfeigned and very complete respect for the office of AuditorGeneral and for the present incumbent but I think that there is a responsibility on those who make critical reports at least to obtain access to proper advice. 
I cannot add any more to what I said in reply to the honourable member for Griffith. What is in my view quite wrongly called a certificate of inexpediency- I think it is a mutilation of the English language to call it a certificate of inexpediency; it is a certificate of expediency- was issued for the reasons I have stated. I will make inquiries to find out whether there is any further information that I can make available to the honourable gentleman. If there is, I shall certainly do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To answer the question asked by the honourable member would require a research program involving staff from several departments, as all the research that has been carried out shows that the available records are not comprehensive enough to enable the information sought to be readily compiled. 
The research necessary would best be carried out by interested individuals and organisations, and such records as have survived since the events referred to are available for research by the honourable member, historians, societies and members of the public generally. 
The honourable member is no doubt aware that certain information on this subject is contained in pages 154-7 of Vol. IX of the Australian Encyclopaedia. 
Inquiries into Insurance and Other Companies: Withholding of Passports (Question No. 1211) 
The presence in the Speaker's Gallery today of my old friend the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, the emeritus member for Werriwa, reminds me of the occasion when I was first introduced to the implicit price deflator in relation to defence expenditure. He asked me, I think about this time last year, a question very much akin to the one asked by my friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley. After I gave what I thought was a thoroughly satisfying answer the honourable gentleman approached me. We had a very vigorous but, as one would expect, a highly good mannered exchange of views on the implicit price deflator. He pressed on me the need to get a definition of the implicit price deflator. I got one. It starts with the assurance that the concept of an implicit deflator is very simple. It continues: 
The Statistician is able to make estimates in both current and constant price terms of various aggregates that comprise gross domestic product. An implicit deflator is the result of dividing the current price estimates by the constant price estimates in order to arrive at an estimate of how much of the current price increase is due to price movements rather than changes in volume or real terms. 
The clarity of that definition is positively breathtaking. My honourable friend and I were as one in expressing astonishment and admiration that such lucidity of expression could rest in the command of one mere mortal. But disappointment and frustration lay ahead. Such was the oneness and the composition of the definition that we were unable to separate the predicate from the subject. As a consequence, our researches had to be discontinued. I think that one of the reasons the honourable gentleman was beckoned towards pursuits in a cloistered atmosphere was that he was determined to contribute something really worth while to economic scholarship. I understand that he is now working on a definition of what is known as the inverse plateau indicator. Where that will take us goodness only knows. I am following him on this occasion out of curiosity. 
Yes, I have a recollection of a statement made in 1972 by the Minister to whom the honourable member referred. I think that the honourable gentleman could be persuaded to acknowledge the fact that I was a private member of Parliament in those days and not a ministerial colleague of the Minister. I cannot answer definitively the argument that the honourable gentleman presses upon me as to the apparent disparity in the half fife time cycle of plutonium which I understand to be of the order of 24,000 years. I will look at what my honourable friend said on that occasion. I am inclined to the view, if I may presume to express one to the honourable gentleman, that my honourable colleague in 1972 may have been referring to material other than plutonium. But I will make inquiries promptly and promptly inform the honourable gentleman of the results of those inquiries. 
I have bad news for the honourable gentlemen. The assumption upon which his question is based is quite false. 
I am grateful to my honourable friend for asking that question. The basis upon which it was false is that no Cabinet submission prepared by me asserted that the plutonium buried at Maralinga was currently a terrorist threat. 
It is my hope that at an early time I will be able to make a definitive statement to the House on the issue concerning the Maralinga area. I have expressed that hope to the Leader of the House and, as soon as it may meet the convenience of the House, I will make that statement. 
If I may say to my honourable friend, I would indeed do that but it would not meet the convenience of the House. When this country acceded to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, the first requirement which was cast upon the country was to enter into an agreement regarding safeguards with the International Atomic Energy Agency. That was in 1974. There were two requirements concerning safeguards pursuant to Part II of the IAEA agreement. The first requirement was that if any particular fissionable material was available, it had to be declared- I think that 'declarable' was the term used. Secondly, it had to be appropriately safeguarded 'safeguardable' was the term used. Following accession to the non-proliferation treaty and the IAEA safeguards agreement- I say this without any partisan feeling- the scientists working for the Government which was administering them, of which the Leader of the Opposition was a member, did not initially address themselves to the Maralinga area. That is the first observation I made in my statement. They did not do so for the good and simple reason that they took the view that there was nothing declarable at Maralinga pursuant to the IAEA safeguards agreement. They took the view also that there was nothing recoverable. 
If the honourable gentleman looks at the language I have used in my public statement he will find the term 'potentially recoverable'. I say to the honourable gentleman that there is a very respectable body of opinion that it is not potentially recoverable, ergo not declarable and not safeguardable. This is a matter for scientific inquiry. 
The Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council, which is administered by my friend and colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, reported on the need for scientific inquiry in 1976. The conclusion in its report was that a further inquiry should be made. That matter comes under the jurisdiction of my honourable friend, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
My responsibility in this matter, quite apart from sharing the corporate Government responsibility in the issue, is a ministerial responsibility with respect to the records concerning the Maralinga test of the 1 950s. 
Having said that, I apologise to the honourable gentleman and to the House for having been so long. May I now answer the specific questions put to me. Early in 1977 I was informed of the existence of plutonium in a discrete form. Discrete form is not simply, as some have suggested, like the form of a golf ball or a half pound of butter. 'Discrete' means that the half kilogram that is there is individually and distinctly identifiable from the  l9Vi  kilograms which is spread throughout some 834 tonnes of rubble. As to the second specific question the honourable gentleman asked me, if the material is potentially recoverable- large as the odds may be- it may be possible at some distant time in the future for it to be recovered illegally. That was precisely my concern on this question. I wanted the reconnaissance of the Maralinga burial pits to be completed before any indication was given to the rest of the world and to some malevolent minds that exist in the world that that material was there. 
1978 WHEAT HARVEST 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) To date, suitable aircraft have not become available for purchase by the Government and no financial arrangements have been entered into with any companies for the acquisition and modification of Boeing 727-100 aircraft. 
The funds for any expenditure necessary by Defence relating to the purchase of the two Boeing aircraft will be provided as an addition to appropriations in support of the Defence function. 
A separate appropriation item will be provided in the Defence Estimates for the acquisition of the aircraft including fitting out costs, support equipment and initial spares. 
As with all aircraft of 34 Squadron, the two Boeing aircraft, if acquired, will remain the property of the Commonwealth and under the control of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The facilities described in this answer are those which, whether or not precisely required by the language of the question, are considered to be properly included having regard to their direct relationship with Australian Defence concerns and with foreign involvement at one dme or another in the period covered by the question. 
For the sake of completeness I record that a receiving station operated at Norfolk Island from January 1969 to April 1970. This station was established under an Exchange of Notes between the Australian and United States Governments dated 13 January 1969, and the agreement, which remained in force for six months, was extended on 10 July 1969 for a further six months. The purpose of the station was study of ionospheric propagation in relation to long range radio paths, and the US Air Force was the designated US cooperating agency for the duration of the project with the Australian Department of Supply. 
For the same reason I record as well that for many years Australia has participated with the US and UK in the operation of a number of portable geodetic satellite observation posts. The posts have generally each operated for a period of a few months up to two years. Agencies involved include the British and US Armies, US Coast and Geodetic Survey, and US Defence Mapping Agency. Activities jointly undertaken with the US are covered by the Memorandum of Mapping, Charting and Geodesy Arrangements of 29 August 1973 which designates the United States Department of Defence and the Australian Depanment of Defence as respective cooperating agencies. This memorandum, which remains in operation until one year after either of the co-operating agencies shall have notified the other of its intention to terminate the arrangements, replaced separate individual service arrangements of May /October 1960, March 1963 and 
CO- 
May 1965. Co-operation with the UK did not take place under a specific exchange. 
The function of these posts has been geodesy and mapping. They have been located, at different times, at Cocos Island, Perth, Culgoora (NSW), Thursday Island, Manus Island (when under Australian sovereignty), Darwin, Carnarvon, Townsville, and Caversham (WA). They are presently operating at Perth and Townsville. 
The numbers of personnel involved in these posts have been small- usually of die order of one or two Australians and two to six US or UK personnel. The US personnel concerned would be covered by the Status of Forces Agreement. Total operating cost of the facilities to Australia since 1966 is approximately $52,000. 
Having mentioned the foregoing in order to ensure that nothing which might be seen to fall within the ambit of the honourable member's question has been omitted, I turn to those things which more clearly fall under the heading of facility'. 
Where in this answer information is not readily available this is indicated by the designation 'NRA'. Where data are classified no answer is given. 
Cost data sought in question 10 are provided, where available, in current dollars. Annual operating costs for the facilities are not recorded in constant dollar terms. No answers have been provided to question 10 (b) because the annual operating costs to foreign governments of the facilities with which they are involved in Australia are not provided to the Australian Government. 
If I may presume to answer this question on behalf of my right honourable friend, the answer to the substantive part of the question is yes. But may I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that the principal report dealing with what is buried at Maralinga is a report known as the Pearce report? That report was given to the Government in 1968. It has a British classification on it. It is a report that was prepared following what is compendiously described as a clean-up at Maralinga. The operation was known as Operation Brumby. The report is there and I can assure the honourable gentleman- I do this in no conflictual state at all- that the report has been available for government since 1968 to study. I would be only too happy to make that report available to the honourable gentleman. 
I appreciate the seriousness of my honourable friend 's question. I will be seeking, if it meets the convenience and agreement of the House, to make a statement on this matter later this afternoon- I understand there are one or two other matters to be dealt with- and then I will be tracing the history. When the honourable member for Maribyrnong was Minister for the Environment and Conservation it is a matter of record that he considered recommendations from a body known as AIRAC- the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council- and gave his approval with respect to those recommendations. For myself, I would find it absolutely unbelievable that a Minister so circumstanced as the honourable member for Maribyrnong- that is, the Minister with the ministerial responsibility at the time- would have accepted recommendations without having sent for the entire file. 
It was a matter of astonishment and dismay to me to read in this mornings  Australian Financial Review  a report which was prepared by one of its employees- I place emphasis on the word 'employees'- and which said: 
The Defence Minister,  Mr Killen,  who only two weeks ago obtained Cabinet acceptance of the view that action had to be taken, suggested to Parliament yesterday that there might be no need to do anything other than to upgrade the police guard. 
I said no such thing and I suggested no such thing. I leave it to the sense of fairness and reason of this House to determine whether anything can be read into what I said yesterday that would enable that inference or that conclusion to be drawn. I did not mention the word 'police'. Honourable members will find in a week's time a report which will state: 'As was reported in the  Australian Financial Review,  Killen said nothing else other than to upgrade the police guard'. As I said before- and I repeat it- this is a pernicious, wicked and odious technique. It has long been practiced by this man. I invite the editor of this newspaper to submit what I said in this House yesterday to any five editors throughout Australia to enable them to judge whether that is a fair, reasonable and accurate report. I do not know whether his actions represent dishonesty or incompetence but, for my part, I believe that the person concerned would not be capable of reporting accurately a minute's silence. 
This question or a question comparable with it was asked of me by the honourable member for Reid on or about 9 December 1976, and I replied to the honourable gentleman in a letter which I believe was dated either 3 or 4 February 1977. 1 will be advening to that question and that letter in the statement I propose to give later. I asked of the appropriate British authorities the explicit question which my honourable friend has asked me. I have received a categorical assurance that there was no breach of the moratorium at that time, that there was no nuclear explosion at that time and that the tests that were conducted were nuclear experimentations designed to determine what difficulties would have been postulated by, say, a nuclear weapon being involved in a fire or being subjected to severe stress. Beyond that I would say to the honourable gentleman that I think that this issue would be covered by me in particular when I make that statement; but I would seek to emphasise to the Leader of the Opposition and to the House that, as advised, there is no evidence whatsoever that the United Kingdom Government at the relevant time in any way breached the nuclear moratorium. 
by leave- In the 1950s a series of nuclear tests was conducted in this country by the United Kingdom Government. The tests were conducted pursuant to a memorandum of arrangements between Australia and the United Kingdom. Following administrative changes my Department became the principal repository for the records of this subject. This process was completed in 1974. The Minister for Defence has since that time been ministerially responsible for those records. It would seem that rumour, innuendo and conveniently selective recollection place an obligation upon me every six months or so to seek to quieten public agitation which is fomented with respect to the Maralinga tests. The motives of the activists seem, at best, curious. 
I emphasise that the records I am dealing with are precisely the same records that have been available to the last several Australian governments. The records have not been added to or subtracted from. Precisely the same historical information is there as existed during the Whitlam Labor Governments. The honourable members for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  Wills  (Mr Bryant),  Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  and Reid  (Mr Uren)  and Senators Bishop, Cavanagh, Wheeldon and Wriedt still remain in this Parliament. I repeat that the information I draw upon is the same information that was available to them- no more, no less. 
A government led by  Mr Whitlam  established the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council, which is referred to as AIRAC. That body superseded the Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee. AIRAC endorsed proposals concerning the Maralinga area. It recommended to the Minister for Environment of the day- that is, the present honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)-  and the recommendations put before the honourable gentleman were accepted by him and clearly by the then Government. I mention this not in any sense of political conflict but to illustrate the fact. The honourable gentleman- that is, the honourable member for 
Maribymong- could scarcely have taken the decision he did without the consideration of all relevant information, that is, the consideration of the records available to the Government of which he was a member, and to this Government. 
Governments and Ministers clearly have a duty to be concerned with the national interest. There are those who scoff at that interest but the scoffing serves no more noble purpose than to indulge a lively and vulgar sense of personal vanity. For myself, and I am certain that I speak for all people of reason, I cannot see that the national interest is aided one jot by wild allegations and rumours relating to the Maralinga experiments. 
I will try once more to put some of the more conspicuous of these allegations and rumours to rest. There is no unexploded device buried at Maralinga. I trust there is no ambiguity about that. Investigation has turned up no evidence that nuclear waste from power stations in Britain- or from any other country- was buried at Maralinga or anywhere else in Australia. There were not 800 tonnes of nuclear waste buried at Maralinga, nor anything remotely approaching that amount. There is no evidence, no logic and certainly no credible hypothesis to support an accusation, so dear to the imagination of the former  Deputy  Leader of the Oppositionthat is, the honourable member for Reid- that the British broke the moratorium on atomic explosions in the atmosphere in the period from 1958 to 1961. 
The first atomic explosion in Australia occurred 26 years ago last week, and the last occurred 21 years ago this week. There were subsequently some experiments on radioactive substances related to nuclear weapons technology but no further atomic explosions. I emphasise the words 'no further atomic explosions'. I emphasise those words because the Melbourne  Age  newspaper, commenting editorially today, had some difficulty distinguishing between an atomic explosion qua atomic explosion and nuclear experimentation. I do not complain about that fact. However, one gets a little weary of being catechised and criticised when some of the authors themselves are not too bright on fundamental science. This point has been made clear many times before, though I notice that even today comment which is usually notable for its accuracy in matters has confused this matter. If a newspaper can confuse the matter in its editorial, which I take it would be written by the leader writers as a reflective, contemplative collection of words, there would be many other people of goodwill and reason who would be confused. 
Maralinga is an area which on all the extensive evidence so far compiled is safe for most ordinary purposes excepting long-term occupation of a few localities. It is an area where there will be an on-going task, which this Government is addressing, of long-term management brought about principally by the burials in the area of a total of about 20 kilograms of plutonium. All of that and much more has been made plain before. It is a matter of regret that men who were members of Whitlam Labor governmentsgovernments led by  Mr Whitlam  and administrations which professed a close interest in nuclear matters- must realise the untruth of some of the rumours and misinformation and sheer fabrications that have appeared on this subject yet they have chosen to remain silent. They had three years to appraise themselves of the facts and I do them the credit of assuming that they did. In my judgment, they could have made a useful contribution to rational discussion of this subject and could have allayed public fears aroused by silly sensationalism. They have not done so. One must ask the question: Why? They have taken the matter further than that. In February 1977, I discharged an undertaking I had made to the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- that is, the honourable member for Reid- to supply information to him. I wrote him a letter which recapitulated the salient facts about the Maralinga burials- the same information that had been available to the Government in which he was a Minister. I asked his permission to let me put that information on the record of this House. He would not ageee. I say this with some warmth to my - 
I am most grateful to the honourable gentleman that at long last he will permit me to put the information on the public record. On eight occasions I tried to contact the honourable gentleman and I could not get a response. I say this to him: I have endeavoured over the years to treat him with courtesy and with honour. He disappointed me enormously that he did not respond more readily on the occasion. 
I am most grateful to the honourable gentleman for now agreeing to make the letter public. May I explain to the honourable gentleman and the House why I had not released the letter previously. I have a very old-fashioned view which reflects a value I hold. I will not release the text of a letter from me without the permission of the recipient of the letter. Some people have urged me on this occasion to break what is regarded as a nicety. I still hold to that view. If I write to any honourable member in this House or to any person outside it, unless I have that individual's permission I will not release the letter. I am grateful that the honourable gentleman has now relented. 
The honourable member for Reid has accused me of misleading this Parliament. I make no attempt to disguise the fact that I am intensely resentful of that charge. I say this to the honourable gentleman: I would never consciously mislead this House because I place the greatest value upon frank and open dealing with all those who sit in it. Neither will I accept the view that I may have unconsciously misled the House on this issue. As a consequence- I acknowledge that it may be tedium- I propose to deal with all the information I have given to this House on the question of the Maralinga tests. I trust the House will acknowledge that I am the custodian of the records relating to the Maralinga tests. That is where my ministerial responsibility starts and that is where it stops. I add to that the fact that I share part of a corporate responsibility insofar as I am a member of the Government. 
On 2 December 1976,  Senator Gietzelt  asked in the Senate the following question: 
1 ) Did the then Minister for Supply,  Mr Garland,  state on 14 September 1972, 'All radio-active waste buried at three places in Australia, Monte Bello, Emu and Maralinga resulted from experiments conducted at those places'. 
What radio-active material is buried there and what is the life span of such material and of the containers in which this material was buried. 
Has the maintenance of this area been brought to the attention of the Government. 
What precautions have been taken in the past, or are proposed to be taken in the future to ensure that the radioactive waste is not interfered with or exposed to the atmosphere. 
What measures have been taken to ensure that the full knowledge of the existence of the material is passed from government to government and from generation to generation. 
In view of the Government's decision on the Fox inquiry and the potential danger to the Australian people from the lethal legacy of the past, will the Minister treat these matters as urgent. 
The Minister representing me in the Senate provided this answer: 
The Minister for Defence has directed that an inquiry be conducted into all aspects of the material buried at Maralinga as a consequence of the tests conducted under the auspices of the memorandum of arrangements between the United Kingdom and Australian Governments. 
The House will recall that at that time there had been a most exhaustive study and report on the issue referred to as the Pearce Committee report. This report was published in 1968 following the clean-up operation known as Operation Brumby that took place in 1967. On 8 December 1976,  Mr Whitlam,  the then Leader of the Opposition, asked me: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to verify the allegations by  Dr John  Coulter and  Mr Avon  Hudson on the radio program  AM  on 2 and 3 December 1976 that the British Government had flown radio-active waste including plutonium from nuclear power stations in Britain to Maralinga, where it was secretly buried at night. 
Are the assurances given by the Minister for Supply in response to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on 14 September 1972  (Hansard,  pages 1384 and 1503) still valid. 
I replied: 
There has been thorough investigation of all the records and evidence has been taken from Australian officials who held responsible positions at the time. This investigation has turned up no evidence whatsoever supporting the allegations that radio-active waste was brought from nuclear power stations in Britain for burial at Maralinga. 
The assurance given by  Mr Garland  in 1972 remains valid regarding risk. In addition to debris from experiments carried out in the area, some small quantities of radio-active material from the following sources are also buried at Maralinga: 
Washings from British Service aircraft which participated in nuclear tests at Christmas Island in 1957-58 and which later flew to Edinburgh airfield for cleaning and maintenance. 
Nuclear medical waste from the University of Adelaide. 
On 9 December 1976, the honourable member for Reid asked me the following question: 
Is it true that, during the moratorium on nuclear weapons testing between 1958 and 1961, Australia co-operated with the British in conducting secret atomic 'Trigger' tests at Maralinga and that waste and debris from these tests were buried at Maralinga? Will the Minister institute an inquiry into these matters? If this information is true, will he recommend that a royal commission be appointed to inquire into all aspects of such tests and the burial of nuclear waste at Maralinga? 
I replied to the honourable gentleman: 
I inform the honourable member that, as a consequence of allegations and reports made in the course of the last few days, urgent inquiries have been set in train to establish precisely what has been buried at Maralinga. That relates to the major point of the honourable gentleman's question. I am not aware of any explosions that took place between 1958 and 1961. 1 am aware of certain trials, which I distinguish from explosions, as presently advised, that took place. They were conducted pursuant  to  an agreement between the United Kingdom and Australia. Nevertheless, I will make further inquiries as may seem appropriate and inform the honourable gentleman. To my knowledge the last explosions that were conducted at Maralinga were in 1955-56. 1 think there are four members of this House who have survived the political explosions in the interregnum- the honourable Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Fremantle, the honourable member for Mackellar and I. We have survived those explosions. The Gang of Four were in attendance- if I can explain to the honourable gentleman- at Operation ' Buffalo '. 
This was a series of tests at Maralinga. I continued: 
I think that was the series of tests. I give my friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, an assurance that I will make appropriate inquiries. Rather than wait until such time as the Parliament resumes, I will convey such information as I gather to the honourable gentleman. 
I put it to my honourable friend that there is nothing in that reply that is not absolutely factual. I invite the honourable gentleman not to indulge in speculation. If he wants to make a charge that I am misleading the House I hope he will produce clear, explicit evidence. Pursuant to the undertaking I gave the honourable gentleman I wrote to him on 3 February 1977. That is the letter that now, after 1 8 months or more, the honourable gentleman has agreed to be incorporated in  Hansard.  As I said to the honourable gentleman and some of his colleagues, the letter is not a polemical letter. It is a straight factual account of the information that was available to me. Then, on 16 February 1977, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  asked me the following question: 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. It relates to the Minister's undertaking to provide the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition with information about the contaminated debris buried at Maralinga in South Australia subsequent to the atomic tests there some 20 years ago. Is the Minister yet in a position to release this information? If so, can he inform the house of the results? 
I replied: 
The answer is yes. I wrote to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on the third of this month, conveying to him information concerning the tests. 
With customary courtesy the honourable member for Reid interjected:  lt took a long while to get to me. 
I replied: 
The truth will ultimately reach even you. It is a matter of some regret to me that on two occasions I telephoned the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's office asking for his approval to release the letter publicly, to no avail. It may be an old-fashioned view, but I am not in the habit of releasing letters that are written to people. My staff has subsequently been in touch with the honourable gentleman's office on at least eight occasions, to no avail. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would indicate that he is agreeable to my making public the letter which I wrote to him, it would save the time of this House. I ask him,  Mr Speaker.  The silence is deafening. That being the case, and the honourable gentleman not being disposed to release the contents of the letter, I will tell the House the substance of the letter, without the personal flourishes of goodwill. In 1968 the British Atomic Energy Weapons Research establishment made a report concerning material buried at Maralinga. That report was known as the Pearce Committee report. It was classified by the United Kingdom Government. As a consequence, this Government is in no position to declassify it. About the middle of last year the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council appointed an ad hoc committee to consider further the material buried at Maralinga. In December of last year its report was considered by AIRAC. The principal recommendation of that report was that the Government should undertake a further detailed study of all ecological and environmental factors associated with the burial of material at Maralinga. The Government is presently attending to that recommendation. 
On 9 March 1977, the present Leader of the Opposition asked me the following question: 
Can he provide a full list of all nuclear explosions which have taken place in Australia giving the date, the size, location and purpose of each. 
I replied: 
Yes. The list is as follows: 
With the co-operation of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I seek leave to include the list in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The list read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810113_39_0.jpg"></graphic>

The purpose of each explosion was related to the development of a British nuclear deterrent. On 15 March 1977  Senator Georges  asked the Minister representing me in the Senate a long question. I seek leave to include the text of that question and my answer in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

1 ) What are the results of investigations into radioactivity levels and the effectiveness of waste disposal at Maralinga. 
What radioactive material has been disposed of at Maralinga and in what quantities. 
3 ) Is the Government considering any measures to rectify this waste disposal problem at Maralinga. 

 Senator Withers The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Detailed requirements for the condition in which Maralinga was to be left when British activity closed down were laid down in 1967 by the Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee set up by the Australian Government. After the British clean-up operation of that year the AWTSC reported to the Australian Prime Minister of the time that they 'were satisfied Maralinga was radio-logically safe. Permanent and unrestricted access could be made to all but a few small areas and even they could be occupied on a short term basis without risk'. In 1972 a further survey confirmed the 1967 level of confidence. 
There were three sources of the radioactive material at Maralinga, viz. debris from British experiments 15 to 25 years ago; washings from British service aircraft which participated in nuclear tests at Christmas Island (in the Pacific) in 1957-58; and nuclear waste from the University of Adelaide. 
The essential requirement in the clean-up process referred to in ( 1 ) above was to monitor radiation levels and record these in detail- not, in every case, the weight volume or chemical composition of the debris and accompanying rock, soil, etc., that was being disposed of. 
The relevant report was submitted to the Australian Government of the day, forwarded to the South Australian Government, has been available to all subsequent governments- both Australian and South Australian- and was made available to the Australian Ionising Radiation Authority Council when that body, set up by the previous Australian Government, considered the Maralinga debris. 
From the standpoint of long-term environmental management the most important of the extensive facts recorded in the report relate to the burial of some 20 kilograms of plutonium. 
Past surveys have not indicated a requirement on radiological grounds for any government since 1967 to institute additional or different control and safety measures. It has however always been recognised that period checks would be necessary (as in 1972). 
The Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council recommended in December 1976 that a further survey be made and the Government is taking steps to arrange this. 
Should a need for any new measures become apparent as a result of this survey, or other period review, this Government, and I have no doubt its successors, will take the necessary action. 
I thank the House. The facts are these: There have been seven occasions on which information has been sought from me regarding the Maralinga tests. I have given the facts on every occasion. I try to be sympathetic to the honourable member for Reid knowing as I do his personal experience of war, but I am saddened that he has allowed prejudice- blind, untrammelled prejudice- to control his thinking and his attitude on this matter of importance. 
I have explained that the British exploded 12 atomic devices in Australia, three at Monte Bello, seven at Maralinga, and two at Emu Field near Maralinga. Between 1955 and 1963 the British also conducted a series of other scientific experiments with radioactive substances at Maralinga. The Maralinga and Emu areas were the subjects of a large scale clean-up operation conducted in 1967 to bring them to internationally acceptable standards set by the Australian Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee. That is Operation Buffalo to which I have referred and which led to the Pearce Committee's report. In 1968 the Australian Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee informed the government of the day that it was satisfied that the area was radiologically safe, that permanent and unrestricted access could be made to all but a few small areas and that even they could be occupied on a short term basis without risk. It was recognised at the same time that periodic re-appraisals would be necessary. The first was carried out in 1 972. It confirmed the 1967 level of confidence. 
There was no survey conducted on the ground in the period 1973-74-75. Consideration was given, however, by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  who then had ministerial responsibility to developing new means of survey. That much is historical. In December 1976 the Austraiian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council- AIRAC- endorsed proposals for a further review which should extend to an ecological survey of the area. These proposals were accepted by the responsible minister- the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development- who authorised the new survey in May 1977. The field work was commenced in August 1977 with the assistance of two South Australian Government departments. These were the Department of Mines and the Department of the Environment. The work involved specialist assistance from the Australian Radiation Laboratory, the Atomic Energy Commission and the Bureau of Meteorology. 
It would not be inappropriate, I suggest, if I were to point out to the House that the AIRAC study which came into existence in 1974 was commissioned by the Labor Government. The AIRAC report of 1976 draws on the Pearce Committee's report quite extensively. I accept what my friend the Leader of the Opposition said at Question Time today, that he had not seen the report, that his former Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  had not seen the report and that two of my predecessors in office,  Mr Morrison  and  Mr Barnard,  had not seen it. That may be an accident of administrative behaviour but I say that there has been no attempt whatsoever to disguise the existence of this report. The AIRAC report refers to the Pearce Committee's report. For the life of me I find it an astonishing proposition that the honourable member for Maribyrnong, as the Minister responsible at the time, would have taken the decisions he did with respect to Maralinga if he had not looked at the entire history of it. 
With the agreement of my colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  I inform the House of the present position, which is that the radiological and chemical analysis of the large number of soil, water and biological samples collected in 1977 is now substantially complete. This has involved a great deal of time and labour. AIRAC will shortly consider the technical reports from the co-operating laboratories and will prepare its recommendations for the Government. In 1977, as a result of consultation between Ministers, it was decided that an examination should commence of the long-range questions of man.gement associated with the Maralinga area. There were issues to be addressed of Commonwealth and State powers and responsibilities and of suitable administrative arrangements, bearing in mind that the area does not have relevance to any practical, contemporary Australian defence purpose. 
It was also decided subsequently to join the Emu Field area to this study because the proximity of Maralinga and Emu Field suggested that the same, or similar, long-range environmental management measures should apply to both. This work now awaits the findings by AIRAC which will, of course be basic to further definition of the practical issues to be resolved at Maralinga. 
It has additionally been decided to include the Monte Bellos in the general review. A joint Defence-AIRAC reconnaissance of the Monte Bello site will, in fact, commence later this month. It has been in the planning for the past two months. 
These actions now mean that all the former nuclear weapons test sites in Australia are receiving close attention. That this is now happening does not mean that new facts or new phenomena have been advised to the Government which heighten concern about the sites. What it does mean is that- 20 to 25 years on- it is time to reassess what impediments, if any, stand in the way of their being opened up further to normal every-day activity. 
The Government is proceeding in a methodical way to develop the most appropriate arrangements that can be made for the long-term management of these sites, based on the best scientific advice it can obtain. Yet another of the matters which this Government has had under active consideration- and one which lay behind Cabinet's recent deliberations- relates to Australia's obligations under the agreement signed with the International Atomic Energy Agency consequent upon our accession to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 
Our attention to this matter has led to a close appraisal of whether any of the material buried at Maralinga, while safely buried from the standpoint of surface radiation hazard, may also be safeguardable' under the precise terms of Australia's agreement with the IAEA. That agreement was signed since the burials were made. I remind honourable members opposite that the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was ratified by the Labor Government and the accession to that Treaty was an act of the Whitlamled Government of the time. The agreement with the IAEA was also made by the Whitlam-led Labor Government. I invite honourable gentlemen and all people of fairness to reflect on whether those substantial commitments and responsibilities would have been entered into without some consideration at least being given to the Maralinga area at the time. If that were the case, it seems to me to be a very curious gap. I also remind honourable gentlemen that the Pearce Committee's report describes where the uranium is buried. The AIRAC report makes the most explicit references to it. I say this not in any heat and, above all, not in any sense of hostility. I do not believe that there is the slightest scope for partisan conflict on this issue. 
An analysis of the documentary records of the burials suggests that one pit does contain material in sufficient quantity to be safeguardable, and disposed of in such a way as to fit the new criterion 'practicably recoverable'. Honourable members should notice that the language used suggests that one pit does contain material. It does not assert this; it suggests it. This is because, pursuant to the IAEA agreement, we will take seriously our obligations and we will respect the safeguards. We must accept the criteria that is being suggested to us and they must be properly considered. 
The reconnaissance on the ground that Cabinet has now authorised is intended to test the conclusion reached from the documents and, if it is verified, to establish the practical measures to effect exhumation. 
It is essential to emphasise here, and for this House and the Australian public to understand, that there is no direct relationship between recoverability and radiation levels at Maralinga. The fact that one pit contains plutonium in a form of burial which may make its exhumation practicable has in fact nothing whatever to do with surface radiation. There has been a regrettable tendency to sensationalise this subject in ways that have left the impression in some people's minds that there is one particularly 'hot' or dangerous pit at Maralinga which should have been the subject of special measures, from a health viewpoint, which recent Australian governments have failed to take. That is not the case, and in the interests of rational discussion on the matter I extend what I have just said to include the Whitlam Labor Government, of which the honourable member for Reid was a member. 
I also point out here that 'discrete', a term which it has been revealed was used in my submission to Cabinet, does not mean there is a solid half-kilogram lump of pure plutonium metal buried at Maralinga. The term relates to an individually distinct quantity that was buried, comprising discs which were shattered during experiments, after which the plutonium was put into steel cylinders, along with the material surrounding it, and the group of cylinders buried together in the one pit. This aggregation of concentrated material in sealed containers in the one spot is in sharp contrast to the remainder of the plutonium at Maralinga which is dispersed in more than 800 tonnes of rubble- I emphasise the word rubble'- in the pits. 
The first requirement will be to conduct the reconnaissance. That reconnaissance shall say whether or not the plutonium is recoverable. If it is recoverable it will certainly be no easy task to undertake under properly controlled conditions. It needs to be kept in mind that recovery would involve two processes: Exhumation of the burial, and extraction of the plutonium. For practical reasons, the Government would greatly have preferred to have dealt with this matter as part of its broader program for the long-term environmental management of the general area. It has, however, decided that action on the halfkilogram should be accelerated, and that is what my Cabinet submission was about. One reason was that, if the material is indeed recoverable, our international obligations require that it be dealt with. The second was that, even if the risk of circumstances arising in which the plutonium might be exhumed illegally are infinitesimally small at present, the material should not be left there- if recoverable- against an unforseeable future. 
It is characteristic of a certain kind of so-called journalism in this country that certain sections of my Cabinet submissions were reported accurately, while other parts were selected for distortion to contrive a mixture that would create a sensational impact and alarm the public. My submission did not suggest that the material was currently a terrorist threat; it did not say there were no deterrents to its theft; it did not suggest it could, under the present circumstances, be stolen; and it did not say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had been warned that the material created a terrorist problem. What I did say is that the material could conceivably, in the future, become a risk in a terrorist context- if left in its present burial state. 
I could not readily envisage circumstances in which that threat might materialise. But I do know that one of the requirements for the burial to become a threat would be the widespread dissemination of knowledge of the potential recoverability of the material before it had been recovered by the authorities. That is why the possibility of recovery was being closely held until the reconnaissance had been conducted. It was an obvious responsibility to withhold that consideration until the reconnaissance had been done. It was an act of irresponsibility that blazoned it across the newspapers. It was an evil mind that made the first improper revelation to a newspaper. That act of revelation is to be deeply despised. It merits no mere indignation but the severest sanction. 
There has been an enhancement of surveillance over the airfield site. When journalists from Adelaide sought last Friday to prove otherwise, one of the policemen to whom they spoke had, in fact, arrived at Maralinga that morning. That did not stop the Press in question from alleging that no new measures had been takenanother instance of people saying what they want to believe about this matter, not what is true. 
I do not intend to state here the details of the additional measures. They certainly include more than one additional policeman. They are adequate. In applying itself to the task of selectively misreporting a leaked Cabinet document, one newspaper has also suggested that the document demonstrated that the Atomic Energy Commission could not handle the substance if it were exhumed. That, quite simply, is another untruth. The point is that by exhuming the burial, Australia would be obliged to enter the plutonium it contains on the inventory of fissionable materials in Australian territory which Australia maintains with the IAEA under its obligations deriving from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. Substances entered on such inventories have to be subjected to rigorous analysis to determine their exact quantity and characteristics. But the point is that we do not want the plutonium, we have no use for it, and the costly task of undertaking a thorough analysis of the material would meet no practical Australian purpose. Britain, by contrast, would not be obliged under the NPT to characterise the material when taking it into inventory. 
This is one reason why the return of the material to the British may be the more desirable option. Much, however, will depend on whether the reconnaissance on the ground verifies the judgment reached from the analysis of the documents. Arrangements have been made for a joint investigation with British officials of the situation. 

 Sir, those are the facts and those are the considerations. Those are the actions this Government is taking. We will not let the pointless events of the past few days deflect us from the responsible, rational and measured approach we have been adopting in this matter. I present the following paper: 
Radioactive Material at Maralinga- Ministerial Statement, 1 1 October 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Staley)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has moved an amendment which is fierce in its terms and which makes savage allegations. It is an amendment deserving of an answer, albeit in a brief space of time. I seek to trespass upon the time of the House to answer the amendment and some of the charges made by my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Central to the honourable gentleman's speech this afternoon was his lamentation that 15 former Ministers in Whitlam led Labor Governments had not been told about Maralinga and what was buried there. In shorthand, that is the central complaint that came from the honourable gentleman. He presented it as an indictment, firstly, of the Public Service which cannot answer for itself, and, secondly, of the Government because it did not tell the honourable gentlemen. The truth is that 15 of them - 
I listened to the honourable gentleman in, I thought, almost unbecoming silence. Perhaps he can listen to me. I know it hurts him. 
I know it hurts you. I named the 15. 1 will name them again. 
You cannot take it. You are a squealer, a little squealer. There were 15 Ministers and you were one of them. What did these 15 Ministers, including the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  with his fierce, passionate interest in nuclear matters, do? They acceded to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1974. That was their action. One would have thought that when they acceded to the Treaty one of the 15 would have turned to someone and said: Have we got any obligation under this Treaty?' 
No, there was not a word from them. Surely one of them would have been able to say it. I suspect that one of the 15 would have been at Maralinga during Operation Buffalo when the bombs were exploded. Surely one of them would have said: 'Oh, we must have some obligation. ' What a commentary on their powerful sense of inquisitiveness. Not one of the 1 5 had the cerebral sense of inquisition to say: 'We may have some obligation.' The Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty refers directly to the International Atomic Energy Agency with all of its requirements. That agreement was entered into by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1974 and these 15, this football team of inquiry, all determined to find out what is going on - 
Then, one of them, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  under the thoroughly specious pretence of making a personal explanation, said this evening that he knew nothing about it. The South Australian Government has had the Pearce committee's report on Maralinga for years. What a commentary on the powerful state of relations between the Whitlam led Labor Government and the Dunstan led Labor Government in South Australia. Now they are complaining about it. If the honourable gentleman reads the Pearce committee's report he will see that plutonium is referred to. Then, there is the inquiry of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council commissioned by another of the 1 5, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  This report contains repeated references to plutonium. Am I to understand that 
Ministers appoint committees of inquiry and do not bother to inquire, even over breakfast, what is going on or to say: 'What are you doing? Tell us something about it. ' The AIRAC report contains a map reproduced faithfully from the Pearce committee's report but not one of the 15 bothered to inquire about it. That is the central feature of this argument and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is trying to exculpate the 15 by saying: 'Nobody told us about it.' I thought the whole purpose of ministerial authority was to inquire into what is going on. One of the scurrilous charges made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition this afternoon was to claim, under the cloak of anonymity, that desperate companion of the desperate - 
You. 
I reckon you are desperate indeed. Not one of the 15 bothered to inquire in the years 1974 and 1975. 1 admit that they had some distractions in 1974 and that things worsened a bit in 1975 but such was the powerful, passionate, continuing interest of the 1 5 that they did not even bother to inquire what happened at Maralinga. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was acceded to and signed with all the palaver in the world. Then the IAEA agreement was entered into, but not one of the 15 had the sternness of character to say: 'I want to know what is going on'. How does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition explain the attitude of the South Australian Government? 
Let us proceed a little further with this matter. This afternoon, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition sought to say that the British Government has not told him what is going on. Has he ever heard of a chap called Harold Wilson? I thought that  Mr Whitlam  and  Sir Harold  Wilson were on the best of speaking terms. I would have thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition at that time, the honourable member for Reid, would have said: 'Look, Gough, why don't you ring up Harold and ask him what is happening'. Not a word was said, despite the splendid, lively relationship which existed between the two men. 
The second argument which was presented by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition this afternoon relates to the description of plutonium. I have already adverted to the fact that there are reports on this matter on record. The same records which are available to me are available to the honourable gentleman. In 1974 and in the years that followed the scientists turned to these reports. They reached the conclusion that some of the material was potentially recoverable. The honourable member for Reid has difficulty in understanding the term 'potentially recoverable'. Let me seek to illustrate it to him. The honourable member for Reid is potentially intelligent. However, there will need to be a great deal of excavation before that potential is realised. The Australian Safeguards Office came into existence following the accession to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the IAEA agreement. As a consequence of that, the scientists wanted to know whether we had an obligation pursuant to those two agreements. That is the test. If the obligation did exist and if there were no response by this Government, then we would be deserving not of mere reproach or rebuke, but of a very severe indictment being presented against us. Because of that I, as the custodian of these documents- I have no other ministerial responsibility- said to Cabinet that consideration must be given to this matter. That is the central feature. 
The honourable member for Reid has passed over to me a book. The magnificent simplicity of his mind is such that he agrees with anything written that suits his mind. He had no sense of inquisitiveness or inquiry when he was in government. However, here is a book written by a character in relation to whom the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition this afternoon said- and I quite agree with him- that one would have to cough one's way through the name in order to pronounce it. We have no opportunity of producing the author of the book here and cross examining him. The honourable gentleman says that it is written there; ergo it is true. Yet it suited him not to believe me when I pointed out in a letter written to him on 3 February 1977 what the United Kingdom Government had told me, namely, that no atomic explosion had occurred at Maralinga in those years. Oh no, he did not want to believe that. Why is it that he believes something which is written in the book which suits his cause and purpose, yet he will not believe any information supplied to him on the authority of a British Labour government? He can put that in his pipe and smoke it. Does the honourable member intend to say that the present Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is an accomplished liar and a polished tergiversator? Does he intend to say that  Sir Harold  Wilson misled this Government and did not even bother to inform the last Labor Government of the British Government's actions? With the utmost of goodwill I say to my honourable friends opposite that the facts that have been given to them come from the records that are available both to this Government and to the Opposition. The facts are that the Opposition has elected to say: 'Ah, we did not bother to send for them'. That is an indictment of the Opposition. On the basis of the argument presented by the Opposition today, I say that honourable members opposite are deserving of a long time in opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed be left out  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
In reply to the honourable gentleman, may I say that I appreciate his concern and interest in the general question of shipbuilding. In early 1975, the Government of which he was a member put proposals to, I think, about 3 1 shipbuilding companies throughout the world, including most Australian shipbuilding companies and some overseas companies, inviting the registration of an interest in the construction of an underway replenishment ship to replace HMAS  Supply.  Subsequently there were but four responses. A Dutch company responded, as did a French company and two Australian companies, one of which was Evans Deakin and Co. Pty Ltd, which subsequently withdrew, leaving Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd the only other Australian company. After a consideration of the three tenders, a project definition contract was let to the French company at a cost, from recollection, of the order of a quarter of a million dollars. 
The Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd subsequently made a request to the Government for a reconsideration of its position. The Government undertook to do just that but made it quite clear-I emphasise this to the House and to the honourable gentleman-that any further tender from Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard of course would have to be considered on its merits. I am sure that my honourable friend will understand the meaning of the terms 'merits', 'price', 'availability', 'capability' and others. It would be obvious to the honourable gentleman that the State Dockyard was not one of the Australian shipbuilding yards which responded to the request to register an interest. I have since been informed that there has been a diminution in the capability of the State Dockyard with respect to a ship of this nature. Nevertheless, having regard to what the honourable gentleman has informed me, I will arrange for the position of the State Dockyard to be reconsidered. Finally, I am sure that the honourable gentleman will realise that this undertaking is given not on the basis that the State Dockyard will in fact be invited to tender but that consideration will be given to its capability and reasons why it did not in the first instance register an interest. 
May I explain to my honourable friend that during the early days of experimentation we did experience difficulty with the Australian system. Following those difficulties and the fact that it appeared at the time that it would not be possible to secure an appropriate resolution of them, the decision was taken, albeit reluctantly, to install the American system. I put it to my honourable friend that, faced with the facts as they were, there was simply no alternative; but I am happy to be able to report to him and to the House that since that decision was taken there have been encouraging improvements with the experiments with the Australian system and it would be available for the follow-on destroyers. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to add to the answer I gave to the honourable member for Corio. Consideration is currently being given to a production decision relating to the Mulloka sonar system. This follows the successful trials in HMAS Yarra. That system could in all probability be installed in the existing destroyer escorts. It only remains for me to say to the honourable gentleman that at no time has there been any evidence placed before me that the Mulloka sonar system has suffered in any way because of the lack of financial support. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Service regulations allow Service personnel to undertake pan time employment in off-duty hours or during leave periods as Service members are considered to have the same rights as other citizens to seek supplementary employment. However, the following conditions are imposed: permission must be obtained from a member's commanding officer; the work must not interfere with Service duties, impair efficiency or bring the Service into disrepute; a service member must not replace a civilian who is on strike or undertake work which would interfere with the full time employment of other workers; and the Service will not accept responsibility for medical expenses or compensation resulting from outside employment. 
The restrictions that apply to public servants employed in the Depanment are laid down in Section 9 1 of the Public Service Act 1922. In short, outside employment is not permitted without the express permission of a delegate of the Public Service Board. 
RAAF: Redress of Grievance (Question No. 2181) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The application was refused on the grounds that Sergeant Grade had not provided sufficient evidence or grounds which would have enabled his application to be classed as compassionate.  His  domestic circumstances at the time, which were cited as the reason for needing a compassionate transfer to Sydney, were largely of his own making and, though unfortunate, did not compel his posting to the Sydney area and the enforced move of a contemporary to create a vacancy. 
, (4), (5) and (6) Yes. 
The independent arbitration to which the Chief of the Air Staff referred in his direction to Sergeant Gracie alluded to the results of an inquiry into Sergeant Grade's case by the Defence Force Ombudsman. 
An application for redress of grievance is a formal complaint submitted through Service channels and reviewed, in turn, by senior staff at all levels of command. Sergeant Grade's last application was so handled, and was personally considered at all levels of command up to and including the Chief of the Air Staff. 
Members submitting such applications are encouraged to make full and detailed statements in support of their application, and to provide all available evidence to support their case. Members may also ask for the services of an officer to assist them in the preparation and presentation of their case. They may also be called upon, if deemed advisable by Service authorities, to personally elaborate or explain certain aspects of their case. 
In Sergeant Grade's case he was personally interviewed by his superior officer and given the opportunity to elaborate on his case; this he did. He was aware of his rights to seek support in preparing his case, but declined to avail himself of this assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 19S9 ASCO has returned approximately $ 10.00m from profits to the Army, the Air Force and the Australian Force in Vietnam. The Navy has not participated in the distribution because it operates its own canteen service. 
The money has not been paid into Government revenue. It has been allotted to the Army and the Air Force for use in their welfare and amenities programs. These programs are administered through funds such as the Army Central Amenities Fund and the RAAF Welfare Trust Fund. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Four. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Alternatives to the Australian Services Canteens Organisation are canteen systems that are more closely aligned to the basic and essential needs of the Defence Force in present day socio-economic circumstances. 
This alternative is preferred and Services proposals for such systems are presently under examination. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total profit on ASCO trading in Queensland up to year ended 30 September 1977 was $ 1.683m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No retrenchment program has yet been approved. 
The Department of Defence has been in close consultation with the Public Service Board and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
3 ) AU practicable assistance in finding other employment will be given to staff who may become redundant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Proposals for canteen services to replace the Australian Services Canteens Organisation are presently under examination and a statement on decisions reached will be made as soon as practicable. 
The redundancy in Australian Government employment conditions will apply to ASCO staff who become redundant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The delay in the payment of revised salaries following this Government's decision to grant equal pay to women in the Defence Force stems from the need to provide legal authority for the payments. 
The drafting of the relevant Statutory Rules is a complex matter. It has been given a high priority by the AttorneyGeneral's Department. However, the equal pay task has to compete with the priorities of other Departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Ranks and classifications in the Defence Force recommended for reduction in pay rates by the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay presided over by  Mr Justice  Coldham, a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member has previously been advised the Government intends that the community store facilities at Woomera should continue to be carried on as required to meet the needs of the local population. Proposals for the alternative service and its method of operation are still being developed. In the meantime ASCO is carrying on as previously. 
and (3) Should any staff become redundant as a result of the change in canteen arrangements, all practicable assistance will be given to them. 
In reply to the honourable member for Corio may I begin at the beginning, as  Mr Minogue,  a former member of this House once said, because that is where it all began. It was in January 1975 that the General Secretary of the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia wrote to the Secretary of the Department of Defence concerning the relationship between professional engineers and technical officers. It was a courteously worded and persuasively worded letter. It concerned the relationship between those two groups. Some of the technical officers expressed the view that their career prospects were being interefered with in a variety of ways. A committee was appointed. The central feature of its terms of reference was to consider what all of us would describe as a demarcation dispute. I want to emphasise that it was to deal with an organisational matter, a demarcation dispute. 
I notice that some journals with a powerful sense of giving free wheeling translations have described these officers as being senior officers. I will deal with that first assertion. One of the senior officers has five levels of officers over him; another officer appointed to the committee has nine levels of officers over him, and the third, 13 levels of officers above him. The committee was appointed to consider the central feature which was what I describe as a demarcation dispute. The members of the committee commenced their work in or about August 1976 and completed it in June 1977. The dates are of that order- June or August, one or the other. The report was very substantial and, speaking for myself, I thought the committee took an inordinately long time to consider that central feature. I would hardly describe the report as a dazzling display of relevance. The report considers, among other things, strategic concepts and equipment acquisition. Even William Shakespeare gets a mention. What would honourable gentlemen think, in terms of relevance, if a panel of stewards at Randwick who were inquiring into the running of a horse expatiated on the workings of the Lambeth Conference? 
Two of the officers involved have been moved but not in any form of reprisal. One has been promoted and one has stayed where he is. There has been no witch-hunt as such. There is a great reluctance on the part of people these days to look critically at something that is written. This report contains hearsay piled upon hearsay, assertions made without proof, and evidence- so called- given by people with absolutely no qualifications whatsoever in the field. How would the honourable member for Prospect feel if I were to suggest to him that I should perform an appendectomy upon him? I do not think he would face that with any sense of relish. 
One of the other charges made is that the report is secret. Copies of the report were passed to three professional associations. I will not say how the report went out to the outside world. All I can say is that it has been given a thoroughly undeserved reception. The last thing I say is this: If we were to see written down on a piece of paper the old saying that the best jockeys are in the members stands, the best boxers are in the bleachers and the best parliamentarians are in the Press Gallery, speaking for myself I would certainly look critically at the last proposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report was tabled in Parliament on 17 October 1978. (2)I have forwarded a copy to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The answer given by the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence to a question without notice by the Member for Blaxland on 7 June 1978 explained that he did not make such a statement. 
Yes. The decision in principle was taken after a series of lengthy studies. Many factors led to the decision. Two significant factors were the changed socio-economic circumstances of members of the Defence Force and the proximity of Service bases to regional and commercial centres. 
) The Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence tabled a copy of the memorandum given to each member of ASCO's staff on 7 June. It did not advise that operations would cease in December 1978. 
An estimate of cost of winding up ASCO will be made when the run down proposals by the Australian Services Council for Canteens and the Services' proposals for an alternative canteens system have been received and considered. 
The Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence informed Parliament in his reply to the Member for Blaxland, that the question of superannuation and other benefits was a part of the program which will be developed. 
Retirement expectations of staff members can be expected to be reduced in a fashion similar to that arising on the closure of any commercial venture. 
Proposals for alternative arrangements for the operation of the community facilities at Woomera are still being developed. 
Negotiations with Papua New Guinea regarding assistance for their canteens service are in progress. 
All relevant trade unions, six in all, were represented at a meeting on 25 May. The ACTU was also represented at a second meeting on 19 June 1978. 
The Services ' proposals for alternative canteens services are to address this question. 
The distribution of profits and/or surplus funds has been withheld for financialyears 1976 and 1977, because all indications were that the Organisation was approaching a loss situation, and could not continue without financial assistance. 
and (13) The shape and effect of the alternative canteen system will be known when the Services proposals have been received and considered. 
The Chief of Defence Force Staff(General  Sir Arthur  McDonald) is consulted on all important decisions affecting the Defence Force. 
The Report was tabled in Parliament on 17 October 1978. 
Yes. 
No. 
The estimated cost of alternative canteens services will be calculated when their shape is known. 
All practicable assistance in finding other employment will be given to staff who may become redundant with the eventual closing of ASCO. 
by leave- Two points are central to what I have to say today about the Defence appropriation of $2,501m for 1978-79. Firstly, notwithstanding an overall Budget strategy calling for the most stringent economies throughout the public sector provision has been made for a defence outlay larger than any achieved since we withdrew from Vietnam. It is a modest but significant real increase of one per cent over last year's outlay. This year's amount for defence is larger in real terms than any since the last Budget of the McMahon Government. Secondly, the outlay this year, even though it is higher than any achieved in the last six years, and conspicuously larger in real terms than any achieved by our predecessors in office, will not be large enough for us to achieve, in the time that we originally contemplated, all of the objectives and projects in the Defence White Paper of 1 976. 
There was a crucial question to be addressed this year in framing the Defence budget, and it was this: Could we defer some of the defence development provisionally proposed for 1978-79. without there being a serious effect on the security which the defence program is designed to afford to the nation now and in the future? If we could, the nation would benefit in terms of the fight against inflation, of economic recovery and of international financial confidence. Indeed, our national capacity to support defence would itself benefit over the longer run. Our conclusion is reflected in the appropriation figures that have been presented and in the level of defence forward commitments that we will have this year. 
In. order to maintain a steadily rising level in our defence outlay while avoiding sharp movements, there has been selective rescheduling and revision of some components of the defence program as described in the 1976 White Paper. Some defence facilities or capabilities which we contemplated having in our possession one to two years hence will not now be in our possession until somewhat later. We shall hold to the timing for others, but at initially reduced quantitative levels. Other projects will proceed on schedule. I shall say more about these matters later. But let me emphasise that the enhancement of our defence capabilities will continue. 
We said in the White Paper in 1976 that we saw no credible threat in the short term of an attack upon our territory, But we concluded that we needed to maintain a defence force so structured that it would be capable of timely expansion, should longer term international uncertainties develop unfavourably. For a country determined to possess a capacity to defend itself, we must have in our three Services a wide variety of skills- albeit in modest quantities at a time when we are not living in the shadow of a direct threat. We said in the White Paper that we must have a core of readily available forces possessing the ability to respond promptly to lesser military contingencies involving Australian national interests- contingencies which could arise at shorter notice than could the threat of direct attack upon our country. Two years later our judgment as regards Australia's external environment, and our perception of the time which would be available to us to hasten our preparations, are essentially the same. 
This is not to say that the world has stood still. There have been many developments. But they have by no means all been unfavourable. International developments do not warn us that we must divert our defence effort to the achievement of significantly greater readiness in the short term. Rather they suggest that a very wide range of Service skills and equipment and infrastructure should be acquired or preserved, as the case may be, to give the country a sound basis for expansion to deal with any threat which might develop in the longer term. 
This choice is important in explaining the Government's decisions. It is the reason why the Government, when allocating defence funds between, on the one hand, consumables such as ammunition, spare parts, and fuel against, on the other hand, investment in long life, highly effective weapons and infrastructure, has sustained a preference for this latter kind of investment, expensive though they be. 
It is easy for critics to say that we should spend more money on ammunition, fuel and other consumable stores to enable an increased number of flying hours, greater steaming time, more interesting and testing exercises and thus higher levels of training for the Navy, Army and Air Force, and at the same time to build up incountry stocks, and put capital and equipment into our defence industries to produce them. We have been encountering some shortages in certain types of ammunition. This has been due in part to technical problems encountered in both local and overseas production and in part to lengthened delivery lead times. As a result we have eaten into stocks accumulated during the Vietnam war. To improve the situation there has been a substantial increase in the quantity of ammunition ordered in the past two years, particularly for the Army. This should ensure that serious shortages do not occur in our training. 
When assessing the level of Service activities that need to be maintained it may not always be understood how expensive are some training items such as ammunition and missiles. Some tank practice rounds cost in excess of $350 each and the annual ammunition cost of training a tank crew will exceed $18,000. Missiles are even more costly. Standard surface-to-air missiles fitted in our DDG destroyers cost some $ 145,000 each and the harpoon missile to be fitted to our new FFGs costs in excess of a half a million dollars each. 
But despite this the Government has decided to preserve Service activities at levels which will sustain professional standards, military skills, and morale. Moreover, the Defence Force is at the same time making an increased contribution to non-military objectives by way of support of the civil authorities in coastal surveillance, disaster relief and many other ways. Inevitably there will be disappointment when the level of exercising and some equipments on issue are kept under restraint pending a more ample budgetary situation. But the pause which we have imposed on some areas of defence expenditure will benefit the economy and thus, in the longer run, the defence effort itself. 
I wish to remind the House that the Government's priorities will ensure that over the next 36 months there will be a substantial growth in the capital equipment in service in this country, in the form of new and modernised aircraft and their sensors and ground support equipment, and new and modernised Army equipment as my following remarks will show. Much of that equipment will contribute to a more comprehensive defence capability in the maritime environment- air, surface,- and sub-surface- of our continent and of our neighbourhood. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1253 appeared in  Hansard,  10 October 1978, pages 1658-63. 
I would like to think in a moment of modesty that I seek to be courteous to everyone. I will not long detain the House because the Prime Minister put this into proper perspective yesterday. Yes, I did drop in. I had a drink with  His Excellency  the South African Ambassador. I have been known to be in the residence of  His Excellency  the Russian Ambassador. I have lunched with the Chinese Ambassador. I am bound to say that if people were to try to extrapolate my political sentiment from my dining companions they would be immensely puzzled because I have even been known to dine with the Leader of the Opposition. 
To take it a little further, I have even sungunder appropriate circumstances- the  Internationale  with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I think the country is in high danger of losing a sense of perspective and a sense of humour. I do not know who advised my honourable friend to ask the question yesterday but all I say to him is this: If he belonged to me I would give him one right up the bracket. 
Subject to a closer check, my understanding is that no serviceman serving with the Australian forces would be at liberty to serve with any foreign service. I know that there have been one or two instances of this recently. The gentleman who recently took his own life was a case in point. I would not seek to add any sense of aggravation to that family's distress on this occasion but I will make inquiries for my honourable friend and inform him. 
I remind the honourable member for Reid that the report of the Pearce committee was a report that was available to him while he served as a Minister in the successive Whitlam governments. There is no mystery about the report of the Pearce committee. On my information, for some years it has been available to successive governments in South Australia. I acknowledge the suggestion put by the honourable gentleman that the Australian Government might consider asking the British Government to remove the classification from the report of the Pearce committee. I will ask my colleagues to consider that request on its merits. I have nothing to add to my advice to the House on this issue as far as Maralinga is concerned, other than to remind the honourable gentleman in particular that, as far as my Department has been concerned, it has been the repository of the records -of the archives. We have had no links whatsoever in the direct sense with the Maralinga tests. Finally, may I say that in 1956 1 was not the person responsible for setting off the bomb. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2090 which appeared in  Hansard oi  17 October 1978 (page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2101) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The honourable member will be aware that each of the Australian Armed Services currently has its own system of disciplinary legislation, based substantially on British legislation which has been modified in its application to the Australian Services. 
Over a number of years work has proceeded with a view to producing a single, modern disciplinary code to apply to the three Australian Services on a common basis. 
On 2 April 1974, a Working Party Report, including a draft Defence (Discipline and Justice) Bill, was tabled in' Parliament. 
Consideration of the proposed code has continued since then. The working Party examined comments from various sources which were prompted by publication of its report. I have myself had discussions with members of the Working Party, the Service Judge Advocates General and senior officers of the Defence Force and the Department of Defence about aspects of the Code which I wished to see given further attention before I put it to the Government. 
I will shortly be having further discussions with the Judge Advocates General and members of the Working Party. I am hopeful that it will then be possible to identify the action necessary to bring the matter to finality. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To 4 October 1978 the net reduction in staff at the former Weapons Research Establishment, Woomera, was 501. 
126 Woomera employees have transferred to alternative Commonwealth Government employment. 
(a) Nil. (b) Total separations from all causes have been 690. These include 464 resignations and the 126 people re-deployed to alternative Commonwealth positions. The smaller net reduction SO 1 reflects re-staffing of positions not designated as surplus. 
The care and maintenance level at the Woomera Range is expected to be reached in 1980. It is envisaged that at that time the ceiling level to cover employees at the Range and in the Defence Support Centre will be of the order of 300. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following a review of all of the demands on the funds available for defence purposes this year, the Government decided not to include financial authorisation for the construction of Casey University- Australian Defence Force Academy in the first year of the current defence program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) Answers to these parts of the Question would involve giving details of an operational capacity of the RAAF which it would not be appropriate for me to disclose publicly. 
However, I am willing to advise the honourable member confidentially of the details he seeks should he desire this. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Replacements are under consideration within the Defence Program of new capital equipment acquisition. However, the timing of orders is yet to be determined. 
Yes; a study has confirmed a likely but low priority requirement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
18 printers in the Army Survey Unit will be reclassified from Pay Level 6 to Pay Level 5 and 4; at Private level the difference in these pay levels is $9.15 and $18.41 a week respectively. 
These reclassifications stem from recommendations of the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay, an independent body under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Coldham, a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Salary preservation provisions for members currently serving in these employments could be operative for a period of about 1 8 months. 
The basis of the recommendations made by the Committee of Reference is set down in its report which is publicly available. 
Given the authoritative quality of the Committee's report, together with salary preservation provisions, I see no sound reason why the reclassifications should encourage separation. 
The short answer is yes. Some half a dozen unarmoured reconnaissance vehicles have been tested by the Special Air Service Regiment in Western Australia. The tests are currently proceeding. I am sure the honourable gentleman will acknowledge the fact that, while it may be within the capability of the country to manufacture a heavier armoured vehicle in Australia, the cost structure makes it unacceptable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The US Navy intends to install the SQS 56 in their FFGs and Australia has decided on the same sonar for the three Australian FFGs; SQS 56 is not expected to be more expensive than Mulloka, nor is it correct to say that it is inferior. 
Australia decided in January 1977 to install SQS 56 in the FFGs, subject to US Navy acceptance of that sonar. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Neither equipment is in full production; the present estimated equipment cost, including spares, of SQS 56 is somewhat lower than for Mulloka; if Mulloka were to be installed in the FFG ships, installation design costs would have to be borne by the Australian Government; this could be expected to make the total cost of installation of Mulloka in the FFGs considerably more expensive than that of installing the SQS 56. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Mulloka is a high technology development with challenging electronic design problems which required complex and time consuming tests and trials. Although we did experience difficulty during the early days of experimentation, the timescale for development of the system has not been excessive by world standards. Even so, at the time that a sonar had to be selected for the FFG 's, it appeared that it would not be possible to secure an appropriate resolution of the earlier difficulties which had been experienced with the Mulloka system in time. The decision was taken in January 1977, albeit reluctantly, to install the American system as standard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The required funds have been made available progressively throughout the development of this project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately $2m was allocated for modification and refurbishment of equipment following sea trials in 1975 and 1976. Subsequent sea trials in 1978 have shown Mulloka to have superior performance to existing sonars in use in the RAN. Direct comparison with other sonars is difficult in the absence of comparative trials. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Mulloka does have potential for overseas sales and its successful development has given a boost to the international reputation of Australian defence scientists and engineers which is already high with overseas sales of Ikara to the UK, and Brazil, and Jindivik to the UK, US and Sweden. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not refused Department of Defence requests for funds for the development of Mulloka. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is planned to reduce Public Service Act staff throughout the Depanment by 650 in 1978-79, to accord with the civilian staff ceiling determined by the Government. Inevitably some of this reduction will be taken in the Defence Science and Technology Organisation. The allocation of the reduction over the various elements of the Depanment is being kept under continuous review to ensure the best use of available manpower resources. It has not been necessary to date to retrench staff to meet staff reduction requirements, and efforts will be continued to achieve staff ceilings by natural wastage or redeployment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Staff ceilings will not reduce the effort going into the Mulloka sonar system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Honeywell Marine Systems Centre, Seattle, United States of Amenca was awarded contracts: 
to develop a prototype acoustic transducer array in July 1972; 
to refurbish the prototype array in March 1977; and 
for reproduction studies to finalise design for production arrays in March 1978. 
Contracts were also awarded to Australian companies which have overseas-owned majority shareholdings: 
Philips Holdings for hybrid circuits in 1973; 
EMI Electronics was awarded contracts: 
for assistance in design in 1 975; 
b) for pre-production design in 1 975 and 1976; 
for prototype development assistance in 1 975; 
for development documentation, and preproduction design activities in 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As detailed in my answer to question 2591, several contracts were let to Australian firms having overseas-owned majority shareholdings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Honeywell Marine Systems Centre, Seattle USA-$639,300; Philips Holdings-$60,600; EMI Electronics-$3,787,400. 
As stated in my answer to question 2 591, Philips Holdings and EMI Electronics are Australian firms with overseasowned majority shareholdings. Contracts to these Australian firms total over $3. 8m, as stated in (a). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, through its Marine Systems Centre, Seattle. 
As designer and suppliers of the acoustic transducer array. 
Yes; details of some processes used in the array construction are proprietary to the company. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Work has not been rejected as unsatisfactory. Deficiencies affecting the life of the prototype became apparent after the 1975-76 sea trials. This is common with prototype designs and is one reason why prototypes are built. Some corrosion took place in the prototype in 1978. The company has been active (partly at its own expense) in overcoming these problems in a modified design for production. These difficulties have not been more significant than others which have been encountered and overcome in the project. It would not be correct to say that these difficulties caused delays which have seriously retarded the successful completion of the Mulloka project. Honeywell was selected because it is recognised as a world leader in acoustic transducer technology. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Honeywell were first awarded a contract in July 1 972 and completed the work in January 1974. A second contract was awarded in March 1977 and the work was completed in December 1977. 
Both contracts were completed to schedule. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
My Department has no knowledge of any such relationship or arrangement, although it would not be unusual for major companies involved in defence contracts to have direct or indirect commercial arrangements of some sort. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Honeywell have completed their development work on time, although there have been technical problems. There is no reason to suspect the sort of relationship between Honeywell and Raytheon which you imply. Indeed Honeywell and Raytheon are in competition in this field. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rights for Mulloka have not been sold or leased to any foreign power. Any application for such rights will be judged on its merits by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no offers and I am not aware of any overtures by Honeywell or any other foreign company for the acquisition of rights to the Mulloka system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main production contract negotiations are at present under way in the US and it would be inappropriate to release any cost details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government's contract for the FFG's including sonars and other systems is with the US Government US Navy. The USN contract for procurement of the SQS 56 equipment has not yet been finalised with Raytheon. Contracts for sonar spares provisioning and any technical service assistance will be negotiated separately. The precise costs will not be known until this action is complete. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since January 1975: 
HMAS  Yarra  has been made available for a total of 104 weeks at sea and in harbour. 
Other destroyers for a total of 9 weeks at sea in company with HMAS  Yarra. 
Submarines for a total of 29 weeks at sea in company with HMAS  Yarra. 
As HMAS  Yarra  is one ofthe River Class DE 's in which we intend to install Mulloka, this ship has been eminently suitable as a platform for these trials. Although at first HMAS  Yarra  was considered to be a noisy ship because of mechanical problems, these have now been overcome. 
During 1975, 1976 and for the first half of this year, HMAS  Yarra's  primary role was the conduct of Mulloka trials. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total expenditure on the Mulloka sonar system to 30 September 1978 was $9.761m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of Defence Science personnel engaged on Mulloka have varied according to the activities in hand from time to time. Average figures for each year are: 
1974-75-37 
1975-76-30 
1976-77-57 
1977-78-69 
To these figures must be added the ship and submarine trials team and the Navy Project team of about 3, and the part time involvement of many other Defence Department staff. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Both sonars are primarily designed for active detection. It is very difficult to compare ranges in different water conditions at different times of the year and in different sea states. It would not be correct to say that the SQS 56 is inferior in range. The Mulloka is superior to known sonars in detecting submarines beneath the surface iso-thermal layer whereas the SQS 56 has a capability for longer detections in the surface iso-thermal layer. 
The only way that the question of overall comparable performance could be answered with precision would be to have side-by-side trials with both sonars against the same target at the same time in the same water conditions. Navy is confident that the SQS 56 will provide satisfactory submarine detection in Australian waters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) The arrangements are defined in Article 2 ofthe Agreement in 1963 relating to the establishment of a United States Naval Communication Station in Australia, as amended in 1968 and 1974, and in Article 2 of the Agreement in 1966 relating to the establishment of a Joint Defence Space Research Facility, as amended in 1977. Both agreements are on public record. The essential element ofthe second article in each Agreement is that the land on which the facility was constructed remains vested in the Australian Government, which accords to the US Government all necessary rights of access to, and use and occupation of the land. 
The arrangement is similar in each case. 
Relevant articles in the United States Naval Communications Station Agreement as amended in March 1974 are articles S, 7, 8, 9 (S), 10, 1 1 and 14. Relevant articles in the JDSRF Agreement as amended in October 1 977 are 4, 6, 8 and 9(5). in respect of both facilities, the co-operating agencies are responsible for detailed implementing arrangements. The co-operating agencies are the Australian and United States Departments of Defence. 
See ( 1 ) above. There are no leasing arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. The conditions now being applied to determine the eligibility of private motor vehicles for duty free admission have been in existence since 1967. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no current plans for the extensive modernisation of 2 Military Hospital at Ingleburn. 
The operating theatre suite is modern and other buildings are generally adequate. The x-ray department is housed in temporary accommodation which necessitates some limitations on the use of the x-ray and fluoroscopy equipment. Priority will be given to extending the efficiency of the x-ray department through programmed repairs and maintenance at the hospital. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) If the question is intended to refer to the report by Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay on Placement of Other Rank Employment Categories, the answer is yes. 
The Committee of Reference is an independent advisory body to the Minister for Defence. Its Chairman is a Deputy President of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and its two members are a Commissioner of that Commission and a senior retired Service officer respectively. 
On 12 July 1976 1 referred to the Committee of Reference the placement of all other rank employment categories at the proper level within the existing pay structure. 
Its report on this matter was presented to me on 9 March 1978. 1 have accepted it. Several employment categories will be increased in pay level while others will be reduced in pay level, including Army Printer categories. But the latter will have their current rates of pay preserved by non-reduction provisions. In discharging the task referred to it, the Committee of Reference visited a large number fo Service establishments, including the Army Survey Regiment Bendigo, where Servicemen were interviewed on the job. 
Given the membership of the Committee and its knowledge of Services' pay matters, I am satisfied that the recommendations of the Committee of Reference are soundly based. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since 3 1 December 1 976 when  Mr D.  O. Hay, the Defence Force Ombudsman Designate, was appointed Secretary, Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Office of the Defence Force Ombudsman has functioned under the Executive Director of the Office. 
The appointment of a Defence Force Ombudsman is being considered by my Department. Further consideration will be given to the introduction of a Bill into the House when the effects of changes to the Services redress of grievance systems have been fully assessed. 
On the contrary it is encouraging to see that the number of complaints by Service personnel is low. 
I am not aware of any concern. Service personnel are aware that they must follow the procedures contained in Service administration and disciplinary codes. Although a Bill providing for the appointment of a Defence Force Ombudsman lapsed on the change of Government in December 1 975, Service personnel are aware that subject to compliance with the provisions of that draft legislation they may refer complaints to the Defence Force Ombudsman 's Office staff for additional investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) See my statement to the House on 24 October 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (I), (2) and (3) See my statement to the House on 24 October 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No- see my statement to the House on 24 October 1978. 
No-beyond 1985 to the late 1980s. 
No. 
No- on the basis of presently available estimates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The departmental study of Defence representation overseas completed in January 1978 recognised, as did the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, that the Middle East had been a proving ground for much current military technology and that access to the experience gained with this could on occasion be of military benefit to Australia. 
The study reached the conclusion, however, that an increased number of short-term visits to the area by specialists with specific interests in mind would go a long way towards meeting the total Defence technological interest there and that permanent resident representation was not justified by reference to military technology alone. It was concluded further that there was only a limited need for the performance of other defence attache functions in the 
Middle East and that, overall, the area did not attract a priority requiring the establishment now of resident representation. 
Given the need for general restraint in the growth of government representation overseas recognised last year by the Standing Committee on Expenditure and the requirement in any case for restraint on government expenditure generally, I have decided that resident representation in the Middle East would not be justified at the present time. 
The next biennial review of the Department's overseas representation is due to take place towards the end of 1979. Middle East countries, together with other countries in which my Department may have an interest, will be considered again at that time in the light of circumstances then prevailing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. My reply to the honourable member's question without notice on 18 October 1978 made mention of some journals' description of the Naval Technical Services review team members as ' senior officers '. 
To illustrate their relative status within the Department generally, I referred to the number of more senior classification levels within the Departmental hierarchy. 
Of course not all classification levels are used in any one part of the organisation. The honourable member's question now seeks particular details about officers actually at line management levels above the respective team members, and I shall answer it accordingly. 
(a) One team member had professional engineering qualifications. Three of the five management levels above him were occupied by people with professional engineering qualifications; 
Another, who had been working outside Naval Technical Services prior to the review, had technical qualifications at a lower, Certificate level. The officers at the two levels above him in his normal position were both professional engineers. (They were not involved in the review.) 
The third member of the team came from a non-technical area outside Naval Technical Services. The occupants of three of the five management levels above him had equivalent or higher tertiary level qualifications. 
One member's senior officers included two professionally trained civilian engineers; another's, one. 
One member's senior officers included two Service officers who were professionally qualified or Navy trained engineers. 
3 ) No. The answer was intended to correct the impression given that the team members were in fact 'senior officers'. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2 ) and (3 ) It is correct that a spokesman for my office stated that action had been taken on some of the matters dealt with in the Naval Technical Services Review report. 
The report covered many diverse matters of an organisational, personnel or technical/administrative nature. 
A number related to organisation of the Department or Naval Technical Services and my criticism has been expressed before. They were either outside the team 's Terms of Reference or not feasible. 
The remaining recommendations have generally been given a measure of agreement. Action to implement consequential changes has been initiated as far as practicable- in some cases, independently of the report In others, no action is required as Departmental policies or on-going arrangements provide for the matters covered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Studies have been carried out on particular recommendations of the Royal Commission at levels from the 
Secretary to senior third division. An assistant secretary was detached to examine a list of specific recommendations referred by the Prime Minister to me, and the Secretary personally contributed to the response. The Department continues to take an active role in working parties set up by the Public Service Board to examine the recommendations of the Royal Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
3 ) The team submitted an interim report in March 1 976. 
No security classification was accorded the team's report. It was, however, marked 'In Confidence' because the review had not been completed. Copies of the report were given to executive officers of the Associations concerned. 
5 ) The members of the team were: 
Yes, my attention was drawn to a speech made by  Dr O'Neill.  My attention was first drawn to it by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and this language was used: 
A leading expert on Australia's defence needs told a conference in Sydney today that the country's armed forces were woefully ill equipped. 

 Dr O'Neill did not use that language. The ABC continued: 
He told the delegates the situation was desperate. 

 Dr O'Neill did not use that language. According to the ABC he criticised the Federal Government, saying that it was creating a long term defence crisis by adopting short term policies.  Dr O'Neill  did not use that language. As one would expect, the speech given by  Dr O'Neill  was a characteristically thoughtful speech, constructive in many ways. It was couched in very moderate language. He argued several matters with which one would not necessarily agree. He made a speech which was precisely the type of speech that I have been seeking to engender in the country in terms of a mature debate on defence. It is a matter of great regret to me that the ABC should use such disgraceful language. One wonders what the motive is. I finish by saying this: I have some ex-clients who are guests of  Her  Majesty at Boggo Road in Brisbane. I hope word reaches them that by comparison with the person who composed this item for the Australian Broadcasting Commission they personify gentle.ness and honesty. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The recruit intake for HMAS  Leeuwin  for the years 1970 to 1977 and for 1978 to date are: 1970-768; 1971-778; 1972-777; 1973-775; 1974-643; 1975-807; 1976-800; 1977-757; 1978-330. 
b) All these recruits were under the age of 20 on entry. 
In current conditions of shortages and restriction on required manpower growth, it has been necessary to adopt all possible measures to reduce the proportion of ineffective manpower under training within allowed total strength. New entries, who have not achieved the training level for employment, form a significant proportion of ineffective manpower. 
Because of the current economic situation and the fact that a Junior Recruit requires 9 months training to become effective compared with 3 months for an adult it has been necessary to shift the balance of entries towards the adult recruit. This has been made easier by the current levels of unemployment in the community. 
The success of this scheme will depend on recruiting targets for the male Adult Entry being met. 
So that good recruits are not lost suitable Junior Recruit applicants are being encouraged to join as adult recruits when they reach 17 years of age. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The four reports and/or investigations and their dates are: 
1973- Review of ASCO operations by Interdepartmental Committee (Defence, Navy, Army, Air, ASCO and Treasury). 
January 1976-Report by  Sir Basil  Osborne, C.B.E. 
October 1976- -Report by the Australian Services Council for Canteens on the Osborne Report 
1977- Review commissioned by Chief of Defence Force Staff of the requirement for a Defence Force Canteen Service. 
Reasons for the Government's decision in principle to close ASCO are summarised below: 
As the number and dates of the above reports and investigations show the decision on ASCO was reached after lengthy and detailed examination of modern requirements for a Defence Force Canteen Service in the light of socioeconomic changes which have affected servicemen and servicewomen over the last decade. 
These include the better personal mobility and financial circumstances now generally enjoyed by Service personnel and their families and the greater availability of chain stores, supermarkets and discount houses in all fields. 
ASCO has been faced with increased competition and declining patronage to the extent that late in 1977 it made an approach to the Government for a large subsidy to carry it through its then current financial year. 
The Government does not wish to deny a canteen service to members of the Defence Force. However it has decided that canteens should now be more closely aligned to providing only basic and essential needs while recognising that some special measures would be necessary to provide for geographically remote areas. 
The Services have been asked to prepare proposals for alternative canteen services based on these criteria. These do not envisage canteen services similar to those provided by ASCO. 
My attention was drawn to this publication. When I first saw it I thought that all my birthdays had come at once. I was greatly impressed and enormously flattered. I thought that it was quite the kindest thing that had happened to me in the whole of 1 978. There is an observation made by Chaerephon in Plato's  Char.mides  to this effect on seeing the undraped male figure, 'my, it makes one forget the face'. I have to be honest about it and acknowledge the fact that it was my face. As for the equipment, I must say- in envy, mark you- that I suspect that in radically refurbished form the equipment belongs to the honourable member for Robertson. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Government's response to the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence relating to industrial support for defence needs and allied matters. 
pursuant to section 14 ( 1 ) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 I present the fifth supplement to the twenty-fifth report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 September 1972, and pursuant to section 16(2) of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973 I present the sixth report of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority, dealing with the general administration and working of that Act and of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 (other than Part III of the Act) for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
The censure motion - 
The censure motion which has been put down this morning has two limbs to it. One relates to what is described as being serious public charges. We are not told who has made them, we are told that they are serious public charges. The accuser is not known to us, but they are serious public charges. That is the first limb of the censure motion. The second relates to what is described as taxation claims for misappropriations made by companies. We are not given the precise evidence to support that. I want to deal as I can within the constraints of time with both of those limbs, but I go back to the manner in which this thoroughly disgraceful proceeding started. It started with quite one of the meanest speeches ever made in this House by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  What he said to the House this morning was this: Let me whimper a contemptible accusation and upon that I will build a pavilion of truth. ' 
What has the honourable gentleman done this morning? He has done two things- whether he is conscious of them or not I do not know. On the first hand, he has forever forfeited any claim to respect in this House for simple fealty. What is the second thing he has done this morning? He has not put on trial the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  he has put on trial the Australian Labor Party. He has put it on trial this morning because out of his mouth has come such a cataract of confession that forever we will ignore the rules of natural justice. That is the central feature of this debate. The Standing Orders, the whole catalogue of precedents that the British parliamentary system has built up, may say forever, No, this does not infringe the sub judice rule', and I will say something on that later. But the rules of natural justice are there. They bind us all in everything we do in this world, whether we like it or not, and the whole body of natural justice must revolt against this proceeding. Where was the evidence? It started with what purported to be transcript of a proceeding. There was no certificate before this House to say: "This is the transcript from a proceeding being conducted by the Corporate Affairs Commissioner.' A photostat copy of what purported to be a transcript was brought in here. How do we know that it was not picked up in the park? Would the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  or the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  like to have his status, his reputation, assailed on the basis of an unidentified transcript? 
If we make the assumption that the transcript was in fact a bona fide one, how do we know that the whole character of the man whose evidence it purports to be was not destroyed by the 20-odd witnesses? When we seek to put a man on trial, when we seek to take away his liberty, when we seek to diminish his status as a simple citizen, we do not look at one piece of evidence; we look at the whole body of evidence. How do we know how this man Creighton Walsh appeared to the Corporate Affairs Commissioner at the end of the day if 20 witnesses came in and all of them condemned him? It is as fundamental to natural justice as anything else that I can conceive that evidence which has not been cross-examined is not worth very much. We have had no opportunity to see  Mr Creighton  Walsh, no opportunity to know whether he can look a person in the eye, no opportunity to know whether in fact he is telling the truth. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  laughs. Our people have not trudged across the centuries to build up justice for simple-minded people, malevolently minded people such as the honourable member to wash those efforts away. I am bound to say this to the honourable member for Prospect: If the Treasurer ever put a tax on brains the honourable member for Prospect would get a refund. 
I want my friend, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  to consider the gravity of what we are doing here today and what we have done in the past few weeks. Please, I beg of honourable members opposite, do not laugh this away. It has been the tactic of people down through the years to laugh and to scorn when high principles are put in jeopardy. Honourable members opposite will not be allowed to put these in jeopardy without complaint from me. I say this to the honourable gentleman who laughs: How would he like to be the subject of a proceeding before a man- we do not know what procedure he follows; he is hearing evidence in camera- when day after day after day there is public debate on the subject of the proceedings before that man? It would take a super effort indeed by any human being to ignore the inflammatory remarks that have been made. I suggest to all my honourable friends in this House: Surely not one of us would relish the idea of our status and our future being put in jeopardy by such a proceeding. That is the precise matter that we are deciding today. 
I do not know anything about the private affairs of my right honourable friend. I do not seek to know. He has stated to this House that when the inquiry is finished the results will be put before us. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has described the inquiry as a quasijudicial proceeding. Whether one accepts that or not, I do not think it greatly matters. But the primary hearing is going on and we are having a public debate in the Parliament and a debate in the newspapers. Since when is a man to be put on trial by newspapers or by Parliament? A jury decides this. That is a great principle and we cannot water that principle down without washing it away. 
Now I come to the matter of misappropriation, the second limb of this censure motion. What does the Opposition do with respect to that? It is not my right honourable friend 's integrity which is impugned; it is the integrity of the Commissioner of Taxation. What is being said in effect is that the Commissioner of Taxation, by one means or another- by blandishment, cajolement or threat- has succumbed to the right honourable gentleman. The letter written by the Commissioner of Taxation states: 
As you know, the Minister has taken these matters up with my office. 
Is that not a display of candour? It was not left to the Commissioner of Taxation to take up the matters. The right honourable gentleman himself went to the Commissioner of Taxation and said: 'Here are the facts as I see them. You give your adjudication upon them'.  Mr Speaker,  I want to come to the sub judice rule because I believe that it is of the greatest importance to this House today and, as I see it, for the future. With respect,  Sir, I  agree with the ruling that you have made upon the sub judice rule, but I do say that it is within the possession of this House to create a precedent relating to the sub judice rule. I quote from page 333 of the Nineteenth Edition of May 's  Parliamentary Practice. 
By a Resolution of the House matters awaiting or under adjudication in a criminal court or a court-martial, and matters set down for trial or otherwise brought before a civil court may not be referred to in any debate or question . . . 

 Mr Finnane's proceeding is not criminal in character. It is not a court in the strict sense, but it is a tribunal, the adjudication of which can in a very significant way affect the right honourable gentleman concerned. In recent years we have seen a whole paraphernalia of administrative tribunals created. All of them can put at risk and can affect the status of any individual involved before them. I submit to the House that in the very near future the House should turn its attention to this matter and should seek to fill what appears to be a palpable gap. I commenced by saying that we do not know who makes the public charges which are the subject of this motion. I ask honourable gentlemen opposite: Since when is anonymity accepted as a body not merely capable of making a charge but capable of making a very severe charge, capable of making a charge which can affect in a very direct and real way the status of the right honourable Leader of the House? He is not on trial today; this House is on trial today. This House commenced today's proceedings with a very mean, very shabby proceeding. It will be a proceeding which will continue to haunt the Australian Labor Party for years to come. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The new Australian Services Cadet Scheme introduced by this Government is designed to encourage young people to develop the qualities of leadership, discipline, self reliance and loyalty. These attributes are very helpful in maintaining our defence preparedness. 
The Cadet Forces Regulations which are the operating authority for the new scheme are made under the Defence Act It is, therefore, appropriate that the costs of the scheme are a charge against the Defence vote. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The US Government does not publicise changes in the alert status of its forces. It is concerned that the information could be used to advantage by potentially opposing military forces. There is also the risk that the significance of such changes might be misinterpreted by the public and might thus impart a quite unwarranted sense of danger. I agree with that approach. I do not therefore propose to answer the honourable member's question in the detail which he has sought I can advise him, however, that there have been no changes in the alert status of US forces at Joint US/Australian Defence Facilities in Australia since October 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No; it is not customary to make decisions concerning the Defence Force on the basis of plebiscites. 
No. 
Any views properly offered by the air base at Amberley would be taken into account as appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Proposals for canteen systems to meet the basic and essential needs of the defence force are still being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is a list of the Army and Air Force welfare and amenities programs which have been assisted by the disbursement of ASCO profits since 1959: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations have been alerted to the potential redundancy of staff of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
Preliminary planning action has been taken by those authorities in readiness to provide assistance to ASCO staff as and when it becomes necessary. Guidelines have been developed for the application to eligible ASCO staff of the RAGE Scheme where the need arises. 
Mercury Levels in Fish (Question No. 2717) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Basically yes. 
The Review report produced by Rear Admiral Callaghan and  Mr Kent  did not recommend that there be regular reviews. 
There have been no reviews of the NTS organisation but reviews covering specific requirements have been undertaken as follows: 
Review of Professional/Sub-Professional Work in Naval Technical Services (Design Division) Phase 1 March 1976. 
Professional/Technical Review of Naval Technical Services Phases 2.3.4 May 1 977. 
Naval Technical Services- Review of Manpower Requirements to Implement the Five Year Defence Plan Program. November 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The structure proposed by the Callaghan-Kent review is still basically satisfactory. Some minor amendments have been made to allow the organisation to function satisfactorily in the re-organised Defence Department 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current staff level of the NTS Division (at 31 October 1978) is 580 civilian staff, 142 service personnel. 
There are 65 levels of job classification within the Division including that of the Chief of Naval Technical Services. 
In the military sense there are two (Vice Admiral and CDFS). There are three higher Public Service Classifications (Levels 5 and 6, Second Division and the Secretary). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 1 October 1978 there are 147 professionally qualified civilian engineers and 74 Service engineers employed in the Naval Technical Services Division in Canberra. 
There are 255 positions in the Division requiring professional engineering qualifications and 252 requiring subprofessional qualifications. 
The criteria used in determining the suitability for appointment to the technician grade positions are: 
Previous experience in the relevant or associated fields of endeavour. 
Aptitude for the particular position. 
Technical qualifications. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Reductions in staff positions have been proposed by various branch and section Heads in response to the Chief of Naval Technical Service's guidelines. These included the need to preserve a balanced capability in each discipline and in each branch. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Subject to certain conditions, including provision of an office, staff and facilities by the Commonwealth, TASS was offered to the Government on the basis that the inventor would bear all costs in connection with the design and construction of the prototype and necessary ancillary equipment. 
No. 
and (5) Yes. 
and (7) My Department's investigations have indicated that  Mr Robinson's  TASS proposal offers no practical solution to defence surveillance problems and the Government is not proposing to take up the development of his idea for defence purposes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Consideration was given by the Department to the acquisition of the Coogee Beach Motel on two occasions. 
in 1972-73 when it was examined as possible accommodation for WRANS; 
in 1 975 when consideration was given to its use as accommodation for service and civilian personnel. 
(a) Coogee Explanade Surf Motel Pty Ltd; 
negotiations were with A. C. Grosvenor Pty Ltd and  Mr D.  K. Bernhardt of Bernhardt Constructions Pty Ltd. 
The matter has not been the subject of consideration by me or representations to me. It would not be proper for me to give information in regard to representations which may have been made to Ministers of other Governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Washings from British service aircraft which participated in nuclear tests at Christmas Island were transported from Edinburgh Airfield to Maralinga at various times during 1959 and 1960 and the last burials at Maralinga were made in October 1960. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In January 1974, on the advice of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee that there was no surface radiological hazard, fences were removed from around three cemeteries. At the same time two pits in one of the cemeteries were capped with concrete to improve their long term safety. 
In October 1978 the pit containing the  Vi  Kg of plutonium was excavated to determine the recoverability of its contents. After examination of the contents, the pit was restored to its pre-excavation state. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth has incurred expenditure on the former atomic testing sites since the early 1950s. This expenditure was made by a range of departments, whose respective responsibilities in the matter varied over the years. In some cases these departments no longer exist. To extract the information requested would require very extensive research, and even then there could be no confidence in the validity of the data produced. 
No estimate has been made of security costs for the three sites between 1978 and 2000. The possible variables preclude reliable estimating over such a period of time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Such differences of opinion which arise from time to time are readily resolved by discussion between the Departments. 
See answer to(l). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further use of the area is under consideration but there are no plans for military exercises to be conducted there before June 1980. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific reference to the faculties of Australian Services Canteens Organisation as such has been made in such advertising for many years. 
No. 
No, as it is not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not known. No funds from the Defence Vote are provided for this purpose. 
Yes. 
A small number of .303 rifles have been disposed of by sale to approved gun dealers or by destruction. A large number of rifles are held pending completion of a review of the policy on the method of disposal. 
5 ) The issue of rifles to cadet units varies as folio ws 
Naval Reserve Cadet units, subject to security safeguards being complied with, are issued with inoperable drill purpose .303 rifles as well as operable small bore .303 rifles fitted with .22 Morris Tubes. 
Australian Cadet Corps units which have approved armouries may be issued with inoperable drill purpose .303 rifles. For special occasions units without approved armouries may be issued with inoperable drill purpose .303 rifles on a daily basis. 
Air Training Corps units are not issued with rifles in either operable or inoperable condition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have read  Sir Mark  Oliphant 's comments. 
This information, although not expressed in the terms used in the member's question, is found in the Pearce report, a copy of which was passed to the South Australian Director of Mines in 1969. 
A further copy was passed to the Senior Hydrologist/ Geologist, South Australian Department of Mines in 197S. 
See (2) and (3). 
In 1967 the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee (AWTSC) recommended to the Prime Minister distribution of the Pearce Report, the contents of which were summarised by the AWTSC, to all Commonwealth and State authorities likely to be concerned with access to the Maralinga Range even in the distant future. After the Pearce Report was printed it was distributed accordingly. The Pearce Report has been available to Ministers of all governments since. 
The Pearce Report was simply a record of the clean-up done at Maralinga and Emu Field under the auspices of the AWTSC. Responsibility for management of the area has rested with the Commonwealth Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 1 May 1977 Messrs Wodrow, James and Hogan held the following positions: 

 Mr W. Wodrow, Engineer Class 3, RAN FFG Project, Co-ordination Section, Naval Materiel Division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The civilian staff ceiling currently allocated to Navy Office is 10,41 1, comprising 5,909 employed under the provisions of the Public Service Act and 4,502 employed under the provisions of the Naval Defence Act. The target approved for uniformed personnel is 16,530 at 30 June 1979. 
Defence Tender No. TP79/2  (Question No.  2755) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The delivery time offered by the lower bidders was unsatisfactory. 
Tenderers were asked to specify the earliest possible date for completion. A delivery time of 10- 14 weeks was considered acceptable and the successful tenderer contracted to achieve delivery in 8 weeks. 
The first phase of the task has been completed on time and it is expected that the final production will also complete on time. 
Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence: Sub-committee on Defence Matters  (Question No. 2435) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The conditions relating to visits of this nature were announced by a former Minister for Defence on 28 February 1973 and are still observed. As the Minister at that time announced, 'With the exception of the very few people directly associated with the central execution and control of the defence programs of Australia and the United States, no person will have greater access '. 
The contents of the briefing are updated as required but the essential facts do not change. 
Mirage Squadrons in Malaysia (Question No. 2616) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The annual additional operating cost of stationing the Mirage Squadrons in Malaysia rather than Australia, has been estimated in November 1 978 prices by the Air Force at between $ 14.3m and $20.6m; the amount varying depending on assumptions made about alternative locations in Australia. 
Yes. The matter is, of course, reviewed periodically, including in the normal annual process of reviewing the Defence Five Year Rolling Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Reports on Maralinga, Emu Field and Monte Bello by the Australian Ionizing Radiation Advisory Council will be received by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development The final report of the joint Australian/British technical assessment team on the buried half Kg of plutonium at Maralinga will be received by the Minister for National Development I will be receiving a report from the Defence element of the joint Defence-AIRAC reconnaissance of the Monte Bello Islands which took place late in October. 
See (1) above. The Defence element report on the Monte Bello reconnaissance is expected within a few weeks. 
As the Defence element report is not intended to be an authoritative statement on the Monte Bello Islands, but rather to contribute towards the Government 's consideration of the future of the Islands, it is not proposed to make this report public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Regulation 5 ( 1 ) of the Cadet Forces Regulations permits a Chief of Staff in the Defence Force to appoint suitable persons as officers or instructors of cadets to supervise and control the training program for, and activities of cadets. 
Yes. The Cadet Forces Regulations provide for the payment of Continuous Training, Home Training and Administration Allowances to eligible members. 
The Cadet Forces Regulations do not provide for any exemption from the payment of income tax on the allowances. 
Officers and instructors of cadets in the Australian Services Cadet Scheme are all volunteers and as members of the Scheme are not members of the Defence Force. Thus income tax exemptions applicable to some sections of the Defence Force do not apply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am advised that there are no burial pits containing radioactive materials at either Emu or Monte Bello. 
I have not seen the reports, but I have heard reports. I regret very much that they have been given circulation. I would say to the honourable gentleman and to the House that there is no proposal whatsoever currently before the Government to disturb in any shape or form the provisions of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act. I took the opportunity this morning to consult my colleagues the Treasurer and the Minister for Finance; they confirmed what I have just said to the House. I would be most grateful if each honourable member would use his very best endeavours to put these rumours to rest for once and for all. 
My attention has been drawn to the reports to which the honourable gentleman refers. There is no proposal to diminish the scale of works which remain in contemplation. The works were planned last year. I am informed that they are currently under consideration by the Public Works Committee. The Government has not yet decided when the project will proceed, but as things stand now I can assure the honourable gentleman that the scale of the works involved will not be diminished. 
While I am on my feet I seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to add to my answer to the question that was asked by the honourable member for St George. It has been brought to my attention that his question was directed specifically to commutation and taxation. My remarks were so directed. It may well be that at some time in the near future a technical alteration could be made to, say, the invalidity provisions, but there is, I repeat, no proposal before the Government to alter the commutation or taxation provisions of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) As announced on 13 December 1978, the Government has decided to buy two Boeing 707 aircraft for special transport purposes. In the circumstances, the RAAF is not proceeding with plans to service Boeing 727/100 aircraft. 
VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 1463) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Boeing 707 type aircraft were considered and were selected as announced on 13 December 1978. A proposal to add extra fuel tanks to the existing BAC1 1 ls was also considered. However, the extra range obtained would be at the expense of the present passenger capacity and only about five people could be carried. 
The cost of converting a B727 to executive configuration has been estimated as $A346,000. Expensive modifications will not be required for the B707 aircraft. Some changes in the avionics fitment will be required and contracts for the engineering and incorporation of such changes are currently being negotiated with Australian industry. 
The B707 aircraft will have similar communications equipment to that installed in the BAC 111. 
The B707 will not require modification to provide additional range. 
The Boeing Company markets 737 aircraft in an executive configuration on a 'special order' basis. 
The 737 series aircraft's payload/range performance is less than that of the B727. The engine on the B737 is similar to that on the B727 and does not have any additional engine failure safety factors for overwater travel. The twoengined B737 would not offer the safety margin provided by the 727 's three engines on long overwater flights. The B707 has four engines and its range is greater than either the B727 or the B737 
The B707 has a range of defence applications. The aircraft would be able to move freight and personnel within Australia and overseas in Defence Force operational circumstances and will be used for moving freight and personnel between Australia and Butterworth in Malaysia to replace charter arrangements costing the government over Sim a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2903,  Hansard,  page 3577. 
(a) Number of officers seeking approval to travel by Concorde in: 
1976-77-none. 
1977-78-none. 
1978-79 (to date)-two; on the understanding that both would pay the difference between the normal and Concorde fare. 
Number of officers granted approval to travel by Concorde in: 
1976-77-none. 
1977-78-none. 
1978-79 (to date)- two, subject to each officer paying the differences between the normal and Concorde fare before departing Australia. 
Number of officers refused approval to travel by Concorde in: 
1976-77-none. 
1977-78-none. 
1978-79 (to date)-none. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and  (2  ) No. The Army disposes of surplus equipment and clothing through the Department of Administrative Services. Normally only part worn clothing, used or superseded stores are declared for disposal from time to time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Rank and annual salaries: 
The information sought is collected by the Australian Bureau of statistics. It is therefore suggested that the question be directed to the Treasurer. 
The Group Rent Scheme (GRS) was introduced in April 1976. Before that date servicemen paid the Assessed Economic Rent (AER) or 15 per cent of salary, whichever was the lower amount, in rent. The GRS has grouped dwellings in accordance with scales and standards, and ranks in accordance with housing entitlements. Thus rents are related to scales and standards and not to salary or age of the dwelling. The rents charged under GRS since its introduction are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Defence Health Services have no documented cases of personnel who have been in contact with Agent Orange. 
The Australian Defence Health Services have no record of any claim for a pension based on contact with Agent Orange. The receipt of pensions is a matter for the Minister of Veterans ' Affairs. 
The long term effects of Agent Orange are not fully known to the Australian Defence Health Services, but see the answer to Question (5). 
See the answer to Question ( 1 ). 
Ingestion of large undiluted quantitites of Agent Orange could cause gastrointestinal upset, mild central nervous depression and difficulty in swallowing. Occasionally skin contact can produce harmful effects on the peripheral nervous system causing pain, tingling, or paralysis of long duration. 
6 ) and ( 7 ) See the answer to Question ( 1 ). 
The Australian Defence Force did not use Agent Orange in Vietnam, and in these circumstances no comment is offered on the Question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The hazards involved in the mining or manufacture of asbestos and its products have been known for many years. There is no evidence to suggest that the Navy Health Services have not been aware of these hazards since the 1940s. 
) and (4) Australian Navy Orders specifically related to asbestos hazards have been issued since 1968, and apply to all personnel, uniformed as well as civilian and to contractors' employees, in Naval Dockyards and Establishments. They have prescribed detailed procedures to minimise the production of asbestos dust during handling, fitting and stripping of asbestos-containing materials. They have also provided for personnel employed on such work to wear approved respirators and to be medically examined, including chest x-rays, before starting such work and annually thereafter. 
These orders supplement but do not replace the relevant instructions under Clause 41 of the New South Wales Factories Act of the Harmful Gases, Vapours, Fumes, Mists, Smokes and Dust Regulations 1945 (as amended) made under the Victorian Health Acts. Naval dockyards have always complied with the provisions of these Acts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The numbers of persons offered apprenticeships, and who commenced an apprentice course, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and Question Nos 3065 and 3082  (Hansard,  20 February 1979). 
My attention has been drawn to an article by  Mr Malcolm  Booker which appeared in a weekly magazine. I do not wish to be harsh and ungenerous, but it is a long time since I have read an article with so many imbecilities embedded in it. I cull out a few of the more glaring examples of this thoughtfulness and deep research.  Mr Booker-  he is described as  'Dr Booker',  but accuracy for this paper apparently does not count for much- writes: 
It is dismaying to note that when ordering that new assessment - 
That is the new strategic assessment-   the Prime Minister excluded the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
As my honourable friend, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, with his usual elegance of language, that is rubbish. It is completely untrue.  Mr Booker  turns to headier things and he writes: 
It is clear that weapons for a major land war would not be needed. 
He is right- 
We could dispense therefore with the tanks . . . field artillery and tactical fighter aircraft. 
I find myself exposed to mild criticism that we are taking our time making up our minds on what will be the most expensive defence project in the history of this country. But  Mr Booker  waves all this airily to one side- we just do not need them. He goes on: 
The key deterrent weapon of the future is the precision guided cruise missile .  . 
It so happens that the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks II encompass the cruise missile involving the United States of America and the Soviet Union. But  Mr Booker  says no, Australia must get it. Therefore Australia and all South East Asian countries are to be involved in SALT talks. He does not say how we should get the cruise missile although some months ago he wrote an article saying that for $100m we could get a cruise missile. That would not even pay for lunches. In the article he goes on to write about the Harpoon missile as follows: 
It has been tested with an Oberon submarine ... It could be made readily available for the Australian submarines. None has yet been ordered. 
That is untrue. The order has been placed. But  Mr Booker  is not too anxious to get the facts. Then he goes on- this is the last quote; I will not weary the House any longer - 
I agree with the honourable member.  Mr Booker  goes on to write about the 
Harpoon being fitted to Fill aircraft. It would be a great weapon, so he says. The Harpoon is a very useful weapon over water but it has one dominating fault over land- it gets lost. I think the sooner  Mr Booker  gets lost on defence the better. 
I appreciate that my honourable friend has asked me to table a statement in the House dealing with the proposals because he does refer to a matter of policy and Question Time is quite an inappropriate time to deal with policy matters. I will take an early opportunity in consultation with the Leader of die House to see what can be done to accommodate the honourable gentleman. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. 72 tanks will be on issue to operational and training units; they will be supported by a repair pool of up to11 and the remaining 20 will be held in depot. 
Fuel is not a governing factor in determining kilometres of training per tank per month. Other factors include the cyclical nature of training programs and schedules of repair and overhaul. For training purposes an annual figure of 1 , 000 km per tank has been set. 
This is regarded as the minimum necessary to maintain satisfactory standards of training. 
The quantities of ammunition (all of which are'live') allocated for training purposes are based on the needs of crew and student training, that is, they are not based on tank numbers. The two types of ammunition used are designated practice' (used solely for training) and 'service' (used in training and having an operational capability). Allocations forFY1978-79 are: per tank crew: practice- 38 rounds service- 2 rounds per student: practice- 46 rounds service- 3 rounds 
An additional allocation can be made for special training activities and demonstrations when required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. Aero-Shell Compound 7 and similar compounds were used at RAAF Base Fairbairn in the propeller, wing and tail de-icing system fitted to Viscount aircraft and for spraying to unfreeze frozen control surfaces of Convair Metropolitan and VIP Dakota aircraft parked outside overnight. The use of these compounds in these applications ceased in the late 1960s when the Viscount, Convair Metropolitan and VIP Dakota aircraft were withdrawn from No. 34 Squadron service. 
When used as a propeller, wing or tail de-icer, the compound was transferred from drum containers to aircraft de-icer system tanks by airframe fitters. When used to remove frost from around control surfaces, the compound, diluted with 50 per cent water, was sprayed on the aircraft from ground support equipment designed for the purpose. 
The RAAF has not used Aero-Shell Compound 7 or similar compounds in an aircraft defrosting application for almost a decade. Thus, there has been no change in their application during the last five years. 
Airframe fitters on the posted strength of No. 34 Squadron during the period 1953-1 969 would have had a responsibility to apply the compounds when needed for aircraft defrosting. 
During aircraft defrosting operations fitters were required to wear gum boots and protective clothing. 
As the compounds have not been used for almost a decade, no changes to the protective measures employed have been effected during the last five years. 
The Directorate of Air Force Medicine is responsible for regulating and monitoring health aspects of those chemically based items listed in the RAAF Catalogue of Equipment. These items include de-icing, defrosting fluid such as Aero-Shell Compound 7. 
The notification of occupational diseases, including over-exposure to chemicals, is compulsory under RAAF medical administration. There is no medical record of any occupational exposure related to the use of Aero-Shell Compound 7 or similar glycol/alcohol mixture at any RAAF Base. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I have taken the honourable member's reference to development projects to mean projects which have progressed beyond the research/feasibility study stage and which are directed to the design of a specific item of military hardware. The following provides information that can be made available on projects of this kind currently being undertaken in the Laboratories comprising the Defence Research Centre, Salisbury, SA- 
Of the development projects listed, Mulloka and Karinga have been considered and endorsed by the relevant Higher Defence Committees. The remaining projects, being of lesser scale, have not required consideration by these committees but development work carried out to date has been approved at appropriate levels within my Department. 
The honourable member will be aware that current work on the BARRA Sonobuoy, a major development project initiated at the Defence Research Centre, Salisbury (DRCS), is now being carried out primarily in industry, although research and development support is still being provided, as necessary, by DRCS Also Project JINDALEE, experimental Over-the-Horizon Radar, another major task to which DRCS is devoting considerable effort, is at this stage still concerned primarily with demonstration of operational feasibility and it has therefore not been classed as a development (or hardware) project in terms of the definition used above. 
I am grateful to the honourable gentleman for his question and I take this opportunity to thank him for the very long, sustained and sympathetic interest that he has taken in the armed Services. I noticed in one newspaper today a report referring to what was described as an upsurge in the resignation rate'. In fact, the opposite is the case and I hope that some perspective will be given to this matter. The resignation rate in 1974-75 was of the order of 5.4 per cent, and in the next year it increased to 6.2 per cent. The year following- that is, the year that the present Government assumed office- it fell to 4.5 per cent, and last year it was of the order of 4.9 per cent. So, there is every indication that it has flattened out at between 4.5 per cent and 4.9 per cent. The resignation rate is not increasing- I repeat, it is not increasing- and I trust that the House will give some perspective to this matter by taking into consideration the fact that in 1977 the resignation rate in Divisions 1, 2 and 3 of the Public Service was of the order of 7 per cent. 
I would not like it to be thought that charity was lacking altogether in political conflict. Therefore, I would seek to sum up the speech of my friend the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Since he spoke the debate has been interrupted by, may I say, two agreeable punctuations, the contributions of my honourable friend from Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  and that of my ministerial colleague. As I listened to the honourable member for Gellibrand- and here comes the summation- one could sum up his speech by saying that, in his view, the country is going to the dogs. I think that would be a fair summation of my honourable friend's speech. If that were the case I would have thought that there would be some obligation upon the honourable gentleman to explain why it is that in Australia today there exist, for example in the one field of mineral exploration and exploitation, firm commitments for expenditures totalling some $4,000m. 
The honourable member for Robertson says: 'A mere bagatelle'. Does he not illustrate splendidly the sense of profligacy of the Labor Party. The Labor Party considers $4000m a mere bagatelle. ICI Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Ltd have announced plans for further expansion. We have also been told of the alumina project at Gladstone, the Alcoa alumina project and the Ranger uranium project. It seems to me, as I look upon the Labor Party- what is left of it- that there is some division whether it should go ahead, stop or retreat. Some 143 oil exploration wells are to be drilled this year. I would not have thought that that was lively evidence that the country is going to the dogs. 
We have heard no lamentation from my friend, the distinguished Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran  about New South Wales going to the dogs. I thought his last election campaign was waged on a statement of confidencegrowing confidence, great confidence, continuing confidence. I would have thought that at least the honourable member for Gellibrand would have paid some heed to what his distinguished leader had to say about the Australian economy. Only a few days ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said, albeit in a rather muted way: Things are improving'. Which version are we to take tonight? Should we accept the version of the Leader of the Opposition or that of the honourable member for Gellibrand? Exports were up 1 7 per cent in the three months to January 1979 over the previous three months. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand said that he turned to the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to talk about the economy. I would have thought, speaking for myself, that the last thing in the world the Labor Party would have spoken about was the economy. Members of the Labor Party in their three years in office distinguished themselves in the political history of Australia as a collection of runaways. I do not say that with any heat at all. There was runaway inflation and runaway expenditure. They also ran away from responsibility. They said: 'Never mind the cost. Get the printing presses going, boys; that is all you need. ' At the time when the Labor Party went out of office the consumer price index for the last yearand let not this country forget it- was of the order of 17.5 percent. 
I have come to give some illustration of the lively sense of fiscal responsibility of the Labor Party. In 1973-74 the deficit was a mere $292m. Then came the Labor Party's Budget of 1974-75 with an estimated deficit of $5 70m. What happened? The Labor Party managed to bump the deficit up to $2,567m. That is odds of five to one- even more grand odds than Ladbroke would give me. Then we had the Budget of the now Leader of the Opposition. He estimated his deficit at $2,798m. Before the Labor Party was nudged from office- I put that as gently as I can- the deficit was $3,586m and was heading hell bent for $4,500m. I only hope that the honourable member for Gellibrand and his colleagues, and in particular the Leader of the Opposition, never take to turf tipping because they will impoverish us all. 
I did not intend to participate in this debate at all but the Prime Minister during the course of his speech made what I thought were some very quiet, considered and non-contentious remarks on the matter of defence. Shorn of polemics there was nothing in it at all. It drew from the Leader of the Opposition what I can only describe as being an impossibly choleric display. He did not like it all. Really and truly, the moaning of it! The world has not heard such moaning since Emperor Hadrian said farewell to his soulpallid, cheerless and forlorn. I thought to myself that if that is to be the form, if the Leader of the Opposition is to talk about defence in that way, I should say something about it. I thought his speech was not merely ungenerous but dashed with massive accuracy! I do not know who prepared the part of his speech on defence for him, but, if I may, let me use an old homely expression: If the person who did the research did it for me I would give him one right up the bracket. 
The major complaint of the honourable gentleman is that there has been some departure from the White Paper. I have already admitted that. There is nothing remarkable about that at all. I made that admission in this House in October last year and I subsequently added to it. My honourable friend found it convenient this afternoon to ignore what appeared in the White Paper of November 1976- some years ago. After I had mentioned the commitment of $12,000m-odd over a period of five years, I used these words: 
These broad provisional allocations are subject to review and adjustment according to actual timing of project developments, Budget considerations and the circumstances prevailing at the time that major decisions need to be taken. 
The honourable gentleman was saying to the House and to the country this afternoon that of all the departments of State in existence the Department of Defence can be considered in isolation. I say to the honourable gentleman that that is not real life and that, if the policies of the Labor Party had been pursued, the country's economy would have been ruined and the prospects for sound defence planning would have been ruined with that ruination. There is no getting away from that. 
I seek to remind the honourable gentleman who has aroused himself from torpor of what I had to say in October 1978. It is highly relevant. I said: 
Two points are central to what I have to say today about the Defence appropriation . . . 
Firstly, notwithstanding an overall Budget strategy calling for the most stringent economies throughout the public sector provision has been made for a defence outlay larger than any achieved since we withdrew from Vietnam. 
The honourable gentleman did not produce one scrap of evidence to disturb that. I continued: 
There was a crucial question to be addressed this year in framing the Defence budget, and it was this: Could we defer some of the defence development provisionally proposed for 1978-79, without there being a serious effect on the security which the defence program is designed to afford to the nation now and in the future? If we could, the nation would benefit in terms of the fight against inflation, of economic recovery and of international financial confidence. 
The Government committed itself to precisely that program and, I would say, to the benefit of the nation and to the benefit of defence planning. If inflation had continued unabated at that rate, it would have made the whole vision of sensible defence planning absolutely one of tatters. 
The honourable gentleman in his speech this afternoon became, I thought, heavily political. I began on a note of charity. I eschew politics. It upsets me no end. I was surprised when the honourable gentleman this afternoon thrust himself with a willingness into political conflict. I thought: How sad. That is not his usual form. But what took over the honourable gentleman this afternoon was his imagination. I have noted over a long period that he has a lively imagination. I thought he give it full rein this afternoon.  His  imagination took control of him. I would refer this statement, among others. Wanting to give a touch of verisimilitude to his observations about defence, he said this: 
I speak not only in a general sense and from the analyses which one can carry out from resources available to anyone in this Parliament but also from the personal experience of having the largest air force base in Australia- Amberley- in my electorate. There is widespread dissension against and hostility towards the Government, not for any political reason . . . 
The honourable member talks about hostility towards the Government. It so happens that at the last general election some 735 people voted at the Amberley polling booth and my honourable friend managed to get only 2 1 8 of the votes. I strongly suspect that he got at least 200 of them out of sympathy. 
He then delivered a catalogue of most extraordinary statements. As my time has almost run out I will run through them quickly. I do not want to lacerate my honourable friend because I really am fond of him, but I do think he made some statements this afternoon that deserve putting into proper perspective. He said that the purchase of two guided missiles was announced by Labor. That is perfectly true, but there is a world of difference between announcing something and doing something about it. After all, were we not told in 1972 that inflation would be cured? The Labor Government did not merely ignore inflation; it managed to knock it up to 17.5 per cent. Some achievement! The purchase was announced in April 1974, but the order was placed by this Government in February 1976. The honourable gentleman also said that the construction of the  Tobruk  was announced by Labor. Well yes, it was announced by Labor in 1975 but the order was placed by this Government in 1977. The purchase of 12 Hercules aircraft was announced by Labor in 1975, but nothing was done about it. The order was placed by this Government in 1976. Referring to two ronnaissance aircraft, the honourable member said that the purchase was announced by Labor. That is quite untrue. It was announced by this Government in November 1976 and the order was placed promptly in the same month. Nothing, he said, has been done about the FI 1 1 in three and a little more years. That is quite incorrect. 
So one could go on, point after point. But the point I am trying to make to the House is that the speech given by the honourable gentleman this afternoon in the field of defence was grossly inaccurate and grossly disconcerting to all responsible-minded Australians. I should have thought that in the matter of defence, the honourable gentleman would be better advised leaving the activities of the Australian Labor Party to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  because he at least has taken the bother to inform himself as to the accuracy of the major issues. 
Pursuant to sections 10 and 10a of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953 I present the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust annual report and the associated Auditor-General's report for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
I must confess that I am surprised that the honourable gentleman should hold any curiosity as to what my attitude may be regarding the Westminster system or the authority of this Parliament. I would seek to remind the honourable gentleman that when I offered some observations last weekend concerning the honourable member for McPherson, I did so in relation to an entirely different capacity from his capacity as Minister for Finance. The position is quite clear. I hold a clear obligation to every Minister who serves in the Government led by the Prime Minister. 
I accept without the slightest equivocation the doctrine of collective responsibility. That responsibility is to be sharply distinguished from the responsibility that I owe to a private member of this House. If the honourable gentleman should be in any doubt as to how I would discharge that responsibility then I invite him to attack the Minister for Finance. 
I did hear a comment on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning that four RAAF aircraft were being converted- I thought it was rather exuberantly described- to possess a spy capability. The word spy' seems to me to have a sinister, improper, clandestine overtone about it. That is not the role of the retro-fitting of the four aircraft which will provide the RAAF with a strategic and tactical reconnaissance capability. It is a very expensive retro-fitting. It will enable the aircraft to photograph by day and by night, no matter what conditions may be in existence, and to detect and to record emissions from missiles and from radar. Few as the aircraft involved may be, they nevertheless will provide the RAAF with a much needed and very valuable asset indeed. 
I read with considerable interest the article to which the honourable gentleman referred. Of course there are lessons to be learned all over the world about a great variety of matters. One can express admiration for the extraordinary defence capability which has been developed by the Israelis, but I hope that writers on that theme would observe the discipline that there are significant differences between Australia and Israel. For example, Israel spreads over two and a half parallels of latitude. This country spreads over some 32 parallels of latitude. We have approximately 3 million square miles of territory; Israel has 34,500 square miles of territory. There are very significant differences. I believe that that discipline should be observed. 
I think it is a matter of regret that the writer of the article is so prejudiced in his views as to say that the defence capability of one country is significant and the defence capability of this country is insignificant. I repudiate that statement in the plainest of possible terms. 
This morning my attention was drawn to a newspaper article along the lines of the honourable gentleman's question. May I say that I am puzzled to know whether persistence of error on this point as to the civilian-service ratio stems from genuine misunderstanding or stupidity or whether it is a carefully cultivated canard. May I take this opportunity to inform the House that the facts are quite to the contrary? In 1973 the number of civilians employed within the Defence Department was of the order of 37,300. Today that number has been reduced to 30,700. I do not know of any other Government department in which there has been such a significant reduction in the number of civil servants employed within the Department. 
Then there is the other vision that all of those civilians at Russell Hill are- to put in homely language- pen pushers mucking up the system. This is quite false.  Mr Speaker,  I will not trespass upon your patience or abuse the House but I have here a table which gives a breakup of the number of civilians employed within the Department. May I take a moment to refer to it? There are more than 5,600 people employed in dockyards and overall some 10,000 are employed in naval technical supply and general supply delivering the groceries and what have you. The vision of them being pen pushers is an absurdity. There are some 6,000 civilians employed within the Army throughout the whole of Australia doing a multitude of tasks, the Air Force employs some 3,900 and approximately 4,900 are employed in the Defence Science and Technology Organisation. May I say to the honourable gentleman that the overwhelming number of those employed are under the direct responsibility of the Chiefs of Staff? At Defence central here in Canberra some 2,300 civilians are employed. I seek leave of the House and the Leader of the Opposition to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="113131197903010_9_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903010_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the honourable gentleman for his most thoughtful question. I only regret that the honourable member for Robertson was not able to get in his question. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has its origin in some difficulties associated with the statutory interpretation of the statute to which the Bill refers, namely, the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act. As I am sure the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  would understand, it has no relationship whatsoever to the substantive provisions of the Act. lt seeks to settle some difficulties that have flowed from statutory consideration by both the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Federal Court. The provisions of the two Acts- the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Act and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act- deal with the classification and reclassification of former members of the Defence Forces who have retired on grounds of invalidity or physical or mental incapacity to perform their duties. As part of its classification and reclassification responsibilities, the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority determines in respect of each invalidity retiree a percentage of incapacity in relation to civil employment. 
To determine the percentage of incapacity, the Authority, and the DFRB board that preceded it, have developed over more than thirty years a set of principles under the discretionary powers provided by the respective Acts. In short, there are three classifications and the classification into which a person retiring will move will depend on the judgment made in the past by the Authority. 
These principles have attracted widespread understanding and acceptance. Indeed, they had the general support of the 1972 joint select committee on Defence Force Retirement Benefits legislation which I am sure is known to most honourable members as the Jess Committee. In essence, the principles are directed to the extent to which an invalidity retiree's capacity to gain civilian employment commensurate with his skills and employment background, is affected by the disabilities that caused his retirement or by any subsequent causally connected disability. 
A judgment handed down in August of last year by the Federal Court of Australia has disclosed an anomaly in the legislation which prevents these principles from being given proper effect. In short, the judgment showed that the legislation as it now stands can be interpreted to recognise for benefit purposes disabilities arising after separation from the Services that are in no way connected with Service membership and which therefore had nothing to do with a member's retirement. Clearly, the assumption of an obligation to provide benefits from the DFRB and DFRDB schemes in these circumstances is well beyond the conceptual scope of the schemes and would, I suggest, be an untenable burden on public resources. 
This Bill is designed to correct what the Government considers to be an anomaly. At the same time, the Government has decided that, given the significant part the whole body of principles plays in determining an invalidity retiree's entitlements, it should be embodied in the law. The Bill has this additional purpose. I emphasise that the amendments do not change the long established principles followed by the Authority; rather, they are intended to confirm and ratify them in the law- I suppose I should emphasise the words 'ratify them in statute form'- and not leave them to interpretation by any tribunal. 
It should go without saying that there is no diminution of the right of persons affected by decisions of the Authority to seek review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. If a person feels aggrieved by a decision made by the Authority, he has a clear right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I am sure that I would have the support of my friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in saying that the Bill in no way interferes with the substantive rights of those who have access to the provisions of the two Acts. The questions of commutation and taxation do not arise. I only hope that the House accepts the Bill and provides it with a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I would like to do a lot about a lot of things. Can I express my appreciation of the sustained interest the honourable member for Henty shows in defence matters? I have not had the advantage of reading the terms of the resolution considered by the Victorian division of the Liberal Party of Australia. I will certainly do so at the earliest opportunity. I can add nothing to what was said by my right honourable friend, the Prime Minister, on 22 February when he indicated that the Government had under consideration the whole gamut of strategic defence matters. I have foreshadowed to the House that I will be making a statement. With regard to that I hope the honourable gentleman will understand that his question points directly to policy. That policy will be revealed at the appropriate time. 
I would excuse myself from reaching the conclusions that the honourable gentleman has reached. This country's military attaches abroad serve wherever this country's interest may be furthered in the clearest sense. I am sure that my honourable friend will understand that Australia has very significant defence arrangements with the United States of America. One only has to mention equipment for a start. Again, we have very significant equipment arrangements with the United Kingdom. I will prepare for the honourable gentleman a list setting out where Australian servicemen are serving abroad. I shall then present it to the honourable gentleman. But it would be open to him, as it would be open to any other honourable member of this House, to argue where the country is best served. The judgment of the Government is along the lines that I have suggested and, at the risk of disturbing my honourable friend, that was precisely the judgment of the last Labor Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable gentleman will appreciate that an answer to his question would involve very considerable research. 
The Government endeavours to ensure that there is an appropriate level of Australian industry participation in all defence purchases. This level is usually much higher than 30 per cent for the many purchases made in Australia. Where major purchases are not made in Australia, local participation is sought through offset orders for which a target of 30 per cent of the overseas content is commonly set. 
An explanation of the policy has been given by my colleague, the Minister for Productivity in his answer to Question No. 1774-1799. 
No contracts signed before March 1970 contained clauses concerning offset arrangements. Current Departmental Instructions require that each proposed major Defence purchase from overseas sources be examined to ensure that opportunities for Australian industry participation are fully explored. 
The more significant contracts entered into since March 1970 incorporating provisions for offset work include the following items: 
Chinook Helicopters Sea King Helicopters Submarine Fire Control Equipment Naval Combat Data Systems Replacement ESM Equipment Computers for Defence (several) Destroyers FFG-01 and 02 Destroyer FFG-03 
Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft Leopard Tanks C130H Aircraft 
in reply- The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  would have made a magnificant gaelic lawyer. I am bound to tell him that I did not quite understand his last remark. It seemed to me to be a little on the arcane side, but there it is. I can assure the honourable gentleman that I have listened with interest to what honourable members have said. I can give such assurances as may be appropriate that there is no discrimination with respect to widows. That was the point raised by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  With regard to the more substantive point to which the honourable gentleman refered- namely, the position of those who may be described and best understood by all of us as the pre- Jess report retirees- it will be appreciated that that has very substantial implications for a corporate government decision. The Government has not made a decision on that. It is not a matter which falls distinctly or peculiarly within my administrative responsibilities. It has wider corporate Government considerations. I thank honourable gentlemen for the manner in which they have facilitated the projected passing of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I presided over a meeting on 17 November 1978 to discuss outstanding matters relating to the proposed Defence Force Disciplinary Code for the three Services. Present at the meeting were- the three Judge Advocates General of the three Services; a representative of the Chief of Defence Force Staff; Chief of Personnel (Army); Chief of Naval Personnel, and members of the Working Party on the Defence Force Disciplinary Code. 
Outstanding matters of difference which were essentially legal in character were settled. 
Procedures now to be followed include consideration of these matters by the Chiefs of Staff Committee after which they will be referred to the Working Party for inclusion in the proposals to be submitted to Government. 
After consideration by Government, the necessary legislation will need to be prepared and considered by the Parliament 
Before the proposed Disciplinary Code can come into operation, subordinate legislation, instructions and Service manuals will need to be prepared. 
My attention was drawn this morning to a statement attributed to the Premier of Queensland wherein he said that he had made an offer of land to the Royal Australian Navy for the establishment of a patrol boat base. As I read the remarks attributed to the Premier, I interpreted 'offer' in its complete sense, namely, that the land would be given, donated, to the Commonwealth. If that be the case, then I would say that it is a remarkably generous offer on the part of the Premier, although one that does not greatly surprise me. My colleague the Minister for Administrative Services has been negotiating recently with the Queensland Government for the purchase of land. Those negotiations are continuing. If the Premier of Queensland has now intervened in those negotiations to say 'They need not continue; if you want the land we propose to give it to you', all I can say is that I thank him very much indeed for his generosity and I applaud his breadth of vision. 
-For the information of honourable members I present details of special flights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1 July 1978 to 31 December 1978. Copies of this report are available from the Table Office. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  are two members of immense good will. I have not the slightest hesitation in saying to the House that I am really very fond of both of them. But this morning they have shown qualities that I did not suspect existed. Both of my honourable friends have shown themselves to be superb connoisseurs of nonsense in putting down this notice of motion, and I propose to examine the substance of it in a minute or two. When two honourable members in this House can confess in such an unblushing way their faith in committees, then I am bound to say that that is a confession of faith that I do not greatly share. That brings me to what I would describe as the major argument put today by both honourable gentlemen. They have said that there should be a standing committee of the Parliament on defence to examine a whole host of things that are recited. One conspicuous feature is left out of that examination which forms the basis, the essential, the fundamental, of all defence planning. I refer to strategic assessment. 
Were the honourable gentlemen serious when they said that a standing committee of this Parliament on defence should be allowed to question the intelligence-gathering systems of this country and make that public? I could not have conceived of a more nonsensical proposition. If the honourable gentlemen find that unwelcome, were they serious when they said that they would conduct all of these inquiries in vacuo, without any relationship to a strategic assessment? What I am saying to the honourable gentlemen is that they are not being practical. We cannot have any defence planning in this day and age without a strategic assessment. We cannot make that strategic assessment available because to render it available to the public- not to people of goodwill, to benevolent souls, but to malevolent minds, to people who are actively hostile to this country- would be to do great damage to the country. That brings me to say to both honourable gentlemen and to the House that in recent years I have watched with growing apprehension the confusion that exists in this Parliament and in the Fourth Estate with respect to the parliamentary system that we run and the American congressional system. They are two utterly different systems. 
I will come to that committee later, if the honourable gentleman will contain himself. I hope that the House and the Fourth Estate will take into earnest consideration what is developing with respect to the committee system. It is not merely as a lawyer that I say that evidence given to a committee which is not crossexamined by competent people, well and properly briefed, is not of much value. Yet day after day after day I have watched so-called witnesses, their qualifications untested and unstated, giving what purports to be evidence. If the evidence is critical, of course, the Fourth Estate thinks that is wonderful and it is run. A classic illustration- I regard this as quite the most significant blotch on the media history in this country- deals with the Katter committee where evidence which is critical of the Government, of the Department, of professional officers, is given a tremendous run, but nary a word appears about the rebuttal evidence. Have honourable gentlemen lost their sense of fairness? You may say it is a Latin tag, the audi alteram partem rule- hear the other side- but the public is entitled to hear the other side when a criticism is made. That is the system that has permeated into this Parliament. I say that, for all my weaknesses, I answer to this Parliament for what happens in the Department of Defence. I answer to the Parliament, not the officials, not the professional officers of the Department. I answer to the Parliament, and I think it deserves to be said that I sit here day after day at Question Time and seldom a question is put my way. 
The honourable member for Corio, to give him his due, shows a quiet, dignified and sensible interest in this matter. But when we come to the wider vision, the wider debate on defence, I am bound to say to honourable gentlemen that I am surprised at the poor quality of the interrogation that goes on in this Parliament. People say that we need another committee. Let us look at the committees that are in existence today. The Public Accounts Committee makes inquiries into defence activity, as do the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the Public Works Committee, the Senate Estimates Committee and the House of Representatives Expenditure Committee. The AuditorGeneral has his own set of inquiries. Goodness only knows, is this not enough? But no, we must have a standing committee on defence that is going on some frolic to make inquiries about all sorts of things when the fundamental of defence planning is to be ignored. I hope that my friends opposite will reflect on that point. 
I come now to the second complaint of my friend, the honourable member for Corio, that with respect to secrecy. To bolster his argument he brought in aid the remarks of some gentleman- that is to give one at least of the people mentioned a pretty extravagant description- who works in the Press gallery. He said he disclosed what was being kept secret, at the North West Cape base. We had a great argument, a furore, over that last year. If people want to dish it out, I hope they learn to take it. May I remind the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  that if I have a few glancing blows at people I do not do it out of any intense sense of hostility or dislike. I can say in my own defence that in nearly 24 years in this Parliament I have never asked for anything said about me to be withdrawn. Mind you, I have written the names of one or two people in my little black book, but that is beside the point. After  Mr Toohey  's comments about the North West Cape base I would have loved to have cross-examined him for about half an hour.  Mr Toohey  said: 'A new base is being built.' The key words in that argument were 'is being built.' I assailed them because it was untrue. One had the vision of ditches being dug, concrete being poured and buildings being created. Nothing of the sort occurred. Nothing was happening.  His  words were 'is being built'. He extracted from a Congressional Record a bar chart and there was a dot against the H. E. Holt Station. A proposal was in contemplation by the United States for some time in the future. Have we lost command of discipline of the language? The words 'is being built' signified something active. Nothing of the sort was going on. 
It is not a case of secrecy on these matters at all. The honourable member for Corio well knows that I have put at his disposal, and without any sense of restriction at all, officers of the Department to discuss with him any aspect of defence planning. I know that any confidences that are given to him will be treated by him immaculately as an honourable gentleman and as an honourable member of this House. But I come back to the point that it is a question of the confusion of the two systems. I want to deal with the Katter committee to which honourable members opposite referred. That committee- a sub-committee of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defenceexamined quite a number of people. I want to say to the honourable gentlemen who served on that committee that there was precious little inquiry as to the interests of many of those who appeared before the committee. In other words, did they have any financial involvement? Did they have any financial interest? Did they have any pecuniary interest? 
One can imagine a person going into a witness box to complain about something. If he has some vested interest in it, no matter what its character may be, he is not going to give evidence which is neutral in character. I want to say to the House with the utmost seriousness: If it is going to persist with this committee notion, every department being inquired into by a committee must have at its disposal a properly briefed counsel, one capable of cross-examining some of the people who appear and give evidence. Wigmore on evidence said: 'There is no greater machine for the elicitation of the truth than crossexamination'. Thousands and thousands of words appeared in newspapers throughout this country attacking professional officers in the Department and making all sorts of wild, extravagant, unfounded allegations. Do we see a rebuttal to those attacks? No, nothing at all. It offends me. It is not merely that I take a pride in being the Minister for these people and serving with them day after day; I object to it on the basis of elementary fairness. 
The honourable member for Corio went further. He said that we are spending a lot of money on defence. Of course we are but do I understand my honourable friend correctly? Is he suggesting that we should spend more on defence? I have never known a Minister for Defence who would seek to have a lower defence vote and I am not seeking some curious place in history by becoming the first in this nation to so move. But from where would the other funds come? Would they come from health, from education or elsewhere? That brings me to another argument which the honourable gentleman presented to the House this morning. If we are spending large sums of money on defence- I do not deny it- and if that is an argument for the establishment of a committee, why not establish a standing committee of the Parliament on health, a standing committee of the Parliament on social security or a standing committee of the Parliament on education? One can go on and on. This goes back to the main counter argument that I put to the House- indeed it is not a counter argument, it is an appeal to the House- to understand the history of this place, the character of this place, and not to confuse the two systems. If we are going to have committees running the Parliament then we can say that Parliament has had its day. This is the place to question Ministers. This is the place, if need be, to censure Ministers. This is the place, if need be, to dismiss Ministers. I speak with some feeling on this matter because I have a profound respect and regard for this institution. I do not like to see its authority weakened in this fashion. 
I appeal to my honourable friends to realise the consequences of this motion. I do not object in the least to sitting in this House day after day being subjected to the most fierce questioning or hostile questioning on any matter at all. If I do not know the answer I will say so. But I do object to professional officers appearing before a committee, being cross-examined, and being put in the position where they must on some occasions run the risk of being embarrassed with respect to policy decisions. Governments make policy decisions; not the civil service, not the armed Services. Again, that is a fundamental point but it is a point that must be taken into consideration. 
Because of the exigencies of time I cannot cover all the other minor points referred to by both of my honourable friends but there are one or two to which I want to make reference. One is the claim by the honourable member for Corio that a D-notice hung over some electronic equipment when it was revealed in the United States of America. I say to my honourable friend that on the information provided to me that is not so. I would be prepared again to make available to the honourable gentlemen the D-notices that are in existence, but none of them relate to that matter. 
The last observation I want to make is with respect to the TFF project. The honourable member for Werriwa and the honourable member for Corio went back over the years and said that this project started some 10 years ago. Of course it did. Both honourable gentlemen, I hope consciously, were alluding to the difficulties of defence planning. Surely they were not arguing that in that time gone by a government, irrespective of its character, should have made a decision with respect to that aircraft, or any aircraft, and brought it into the inventory. It is a matter of professional judgment as to what type of aircraft is purchased and that judgment is best exercised by the professionals. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio) -Be fore you put the question,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want to make an explanation because I think the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  misrepresented my remarks. I think I am entitled to do that. 
by leave- I thank the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  for his cooperation in allowing me to make this statement at this time. I have a problem in regard to a Cabinet meeting. I wish to inform the house of the next step that will be taken towards the acquisition by the Government of tactical fighter aircraft to replace the Mirage. Honourable members may recall that in April last year I informed the House of the Government's plans to acquire new fighter aircraft. In October last I informed the House that operational/technical and industrial missions would go overseas in the first half of 1979 to examine four selected aircraft to ascertain their operational suitability and to discuss the capacity and willingness of manufacturers to satisfy our industry objectives at acceptable cost. 
The Royal Australian Air Force project is proceeding as planned. Much information has been collected. That information includes the likely demand from other governments and, as a consequence, the production prospects for the aircraft we have short-listed. Development of the aircraft which are being considered by the RAAF has also been progressing. The development of these aircraft is in various stages. The General Dynamics F-16 has now started to enter service with the United States Air Force. The McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 and the Dassault Breguet Mirage 2000 have reached the test flying stage. The Northrop F-18L, a proposed derivative of the F/A- 1 8, is not yet a firm program. The government proposes now to send a mission of RAAF specialists and officers concerned with Australian production matters to examine further all aspects associated with the TFF project. 
The succession of deliberate steps which I am taking reflects the nature of fighter aircraft technology and the large questions which need to be adequately answered. There has been a revolution in fighter aircraft technology. Designs have been radically changed. Engines are much more powerful. New concepts have been adopted. Flybywire control systems, new non-metallic structural materials, integrated avionics and weapons systems controlled by on-board digital computers- these are but a few of the more significant advances. In our air force they would have to be maintained and modified as necessary in Australia within the industrial and technological resources of the country. Fighters are now of enormous complexity compared with those we have already operated in Australia. I interpolate at this stage that the first aircraft brought into the inventory of the RAAF cost 900 and the engine cost 300. That is some indication of the change in costs. 
Our strategic and geographic circumstances differ in many respects from those of the countries for which the aircraft have been primarily designed. Roles here will differ from roles in Europe or North America, and weapons fits may also differ. The new fighter should have high performance capabilities not only in its principal roles of air defence and air combat but also in air-to-surface roles. It should have the ability to carry a heavy load of munitions over large distances in adverse weather, and to strike surface targets accurately with stand-off precision weapons. The selection of such an aircraft from what is available or in prospect must be made with great care. The evaluations will call for many different professional skills. Each aircraft and accumulated flight and design data and onboard and ground based systems will have to be examined in scrupulous detail to determine how, and at what cost, they could meet our particular needs. 
The evaluation team will be led by Air ViceMarshal H. A. Hughes and will include experienced fighter and test pilots, engineering specialists in the wide range of technical disciplines involved, and officers experienced in supply, logistics, and costing. It will comprise 13 people and be overseas for about two months from 29 March. This operational/technical team will probe and assess the claims made by manufacturers. It will examine the hardware and test fly aircraft. It will discuss with other armed services that are actual or potential users of the aircraft their view of roles, methods of operation, and what is involved in maintaining serviceability. 
We must also plan for the parallel advances that will have to be made in Australian industry. The new technologies of the fighter will have to be learnt and practised in our industry so that local production and servicing capabilities will be available of the kind that I have indicated. My Department, working closely with the Department of Productivity, has explained to contending manufacturers the need for arrangements that place a continuous program of relevant work in Australian industry at reasonable cost. Proposals to achieve this have been sought from the manufacturers. 
A team led by  Mr G.  J. Churcher, a senior officer of my Department, having substantial aircraft production experience, responsible for industry matters, will go abroad in mid-April. This team will comprise five people, including specialists in the various fields of aircraft engineering, manufacture and maintenance. It will draw on the extensive background already acquired by the major Australian aircraft firms, each of which has recently made visits to overseas manufacturers' plants. The industry team will work in close collaboration with the operational/technical team and follow up matters arising in its investigations. 
After both teams return to Australia there will be a necessary period of consultation and assessment of information by the RAAF and the Department of Defence in concert. Recommendations will be brought forward for government consideration later in 1979 with a view to negotiation of a satisfactory contract as soon as practicable thereafter. We shall reduce the list of contenders to a single aircraft as soon as practicable. When that will be feasible will depend on what our RAAF mission tells us about the aircraft and their weapons, and our industry mission tells us about the prospects of an adequate offer by the various overseas manufacturers to Australian industry. I shall inform parliament of the Government 's conclusions thereon. 
I remind honourable members that we shall be relying on this new fighter until the early part of the twenty-first century. The Government is determined that this important and costly element of our Defence Force will be the product of meticulous, timely and thoroughly professional evaluation. 
I must say at once that I appreciate the characteristically thoughtful question that has come from the honourable member for North Sydney; further, that I am not altogether surprised that he has asked the question. That relieves me of an obligation to deal with the more boisterous parts that reside in the honourable gentleman's question. As to its first part, my inquiries disclose that two sailors were having a discussion with a journalist in a hotel. At what hour of the day that discussion took place I am not in a position to say; but whether it was late or early in the day, obviously there was some guilding of the lily. As a consequence of that discussion, that journalist's paper ran the caption 'Hobart Couldn't Sink a Barge'. Speaking for myself, I would not like the HMAS  Hobart  to open fire on my house or on any barge that I happened to be on. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman 's question, which is the more serious one, relating to the allegation concerning the patrol frigate which is being constructed in the United States of America being described by an American senator as a 'cheap kill' ship, I suppose that the United States Senate suffers from exuberance of spirit no less than the Australian Senate. I put just that question to the leader of a United States naval team here in Australia recently and he described to me a shock test that had been conducted with one of the United States patrol frigates. The test consisted of exploding 15,000 lbs of TNT within 500 feet of the ship. The explosion was on a barge weighing about 7 tons. Apart from one or two very minor interruptions to the ship's system, the ship was able to get under full power. Its intrinsic defence capability, its intrinsic offensive capability, were not disturbed. The United States captain gave me a photograph of the explosion. It was a most spectacular explosion. This has been described as a 'cheap kill' ship that could be stopped with a bullet. Speaking for myself, my sense of respect for this place and for the Standing Orders prevents me from describing the allegations as I would wish. I can describe it only as a spectacular and sanguinary piece of nonsense. 
by leave- In May 1978 I informed the Parliament that when a formal United States proposal was placed before the Government to install a replacement satellite ground terminal at the Harold E. Holt Naval Communication Station it would be considered on its merits. A formal US proposal was received on 17 February 1979. It has been considered by the Government. The Government has concluded that the installation of a GSC-39V ( 1 ) satellite ground terminal, formally designated AN/MSC-61, to replace the existing AN/TSC-54 satellite ground terminal would depart in no way from the agreed purposes of defence communication for which the station was established. The Government accepts that a need exists for the communication equipment at Harold E. Holt to be sustained at levels of technical performance fully compatible with the US Defence communication system of which it forms an integral element. It supports the installation that has been proposed. 
On 25 May last year I stated in respect of the replacement terminal that if it were proceeded with, it: 
would not have any facilities to command the positioning of satellites 
would not have any facilities to control the allocation of Satellite Communications capacity to users of the Defence Satellite Communication System 
would not have telemetry and tracking functions other than those necessary in any satellite terminals including the present TSC54 terminals to keep its own antenna pointed at the communications satellite 
would- as the existing terminal- be used purely for the transmission and reception of communication traffic; and 
this transmission and reception would be done by the MSC61 through the US Defence Satellite Communication System of which it, like the TSC54 terminal would be a part. 
I confirm now to honourable members that those assurances apply equally to the replacement terminal now formally proposed for installation. 
-The man who made the allegation has done so on completely false grounds. For a start, it is not the Department of Defence that called for tenders. The tenders were called for by the Department of Administrative Services. I speak subject to correction, but I understand that the computer is connected with the ongoing experimental Jindalee over-the-horizon radar system. Very few computers are compatible with that system. To ensure compatibility with certain computers would cost a very great deal of time and involve a very great deal of money. I suppose it would be somewhat akin to installing a gearbox from a 1978 LTD in a 1954 Holden sedan. 
I am left with the impression that that question was formed in the honourable gentleman's mind after attending a very bad Halloween party. 

 - Mr Speaker, I understand that my friend, the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  was concerned or distressed with a reply I gave to him at Question Time. May I assure my honourable friend that under no circumstances whatsoever would I reflect upon him in any ungenerous way. I apologise unreservedly to him if he feels in any way offended. 
I reject the crude impeachment by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. What the honourable member failed to put into his question is that in my reply to him I indicated that I was not prepared to allocate vast resources to do an extraordinary amount of research in order to answer his question. If the honourable gentleman has a specific contract in mind, I would be only too happy to facilitate the supply of information for him. But I appeal to the honourable gentleman to acknowledge the fact that to go back over 6, 8 or 10 years as he requested me to do would require an extraordinary amount of manpower, and I am simply not prepared to waste manpower in that fashion. 
by leave- In October last year, I said that, in the present fiscal situation, we could no longer proceed with all the objectives in the 1 976 Defence White Paper at the pace we then contemplated. I pointed nevertheless to: The provision in 1978-79 for a defence outlay larger in real terms than any achieved since the last Budget of the McMahon Government; and a continuation of the work that has rescued our defence capabilities from the downwards slope on which they were launched in 1973. The Government has lately reviewed the content of the Defence program, and given the Defence Administration directions within which it is to plan the spending program in the remainder of this year and the years ahead. 
In the continuing war on inflation by the Government I have to accept continuing restraint. Nevertheless the new program provides for a continuing growth in real terms in defence expenditure. Announcement of figures for 1979-80 must of course await the budget. Nevertheless real growth will not be less than 2 per cent. The program calls as well for some change in emphasis. The maintenance and improvement of the operational effectiveness of the defence force in the years ahead is to be the first aim. Consequently, the growth in spending on capital assets will continue, and it will be in equipment rather than buildings. More, however, will be spent than in the recent past on maintenance spares and other stores needed to relieve some restraints on service training activities. Growth in manpower will continue to be held down. Growth in other assets will be stimulated. Discussion about the capacities Australia may need in the future, the threat contingencies we supposedly might not be able to meet, and the supposed deficiencies today, must never overlook that we already possess substantial defence assets. There is a perception developing in some sections of our community that we lack significant military capability, This is completely false. It is far from the reality, as I propose to explain. 
As the House is aware, the Government has commissioned an intelligence assessment following recent unsettling events in the Middle East and in Indo-China and its frontier with China and elsewhere. There will be a subsequent strategic review to discern whether change in our defence capabilities needs to be planned for the future. In the meantime there are some fundamental propositions which deserve consideration. They suggest seven requirements that our defence effort must satisfy: 
We must sustain a defence force which supports our diplomacy so that both in combination effectively deter interference with Australia's sovereignty by the military forces of a foreign power. 
We must sustain a defence force containing men with the right skills, possessing the right weapons, that could train and develop an expanded force as and when a major threat to Australia begins to emerge. 
We need a force that can undertake surveillance and patrol duties, provide assistance to the civil community as and when needed and respond to limited military tasks and requirements that can arise at short notice. 
We need a defence force that will protect our supply lines in the maritime areas near to Australia's principal ports; or that could make some contribution to assisting allies protect our more remote sea routes should there be no significant local threats. 
We need a defence force with capabilities affording the Government of the day the option of giving defence help to regional friends with whom we have common security interests, should they wish this- whether this be the south-west Pacific, Papua New Guinea, or other countries to our immediate north. 
Subject to our giving priority to capabilities needed for operations in our own environment, our defence force should also provide the Government of the day with the practical option of contributing to Pacific defence in accordance with the ANZUS Treaty. 
It should also enable governments to contribute to United Nations international peace-keeping. 
I turn to the characteristics of such a force. The size and shape and equipment of our Defence Force should be assessed in Australia's own geopolitical environment- and this for three reasons: 
Like every country Australia must sustain its military standing in its geographical neighbourhood through which attacks upon its territory could be launched. 
Australia's isolation from other continents, and our physical environment of sea and air space and archipelagic territories, carry a number of pointers for our defence capabilities; as do the physical characteristics of our own continent. 
It is in respect of armed threats within our own geographic environment that our allies could be expected to look to Australia to be reasonably self-reliant, and to make a maximum effort to look after its own security.  (Quorum formed).  Therefore the first testis the strength of the force vis-a-vis the countries that are within striking distance of Australia. This should be assessed realistically, not on the basis of prejudice, suspicion or ignorance. Fortunately our present relations with our neighbours on the fundamentals of security are so good as to render this a somewhat theoretical question. Moreover the objective of both our diplomacy and our defence policy is to sustain the mutual interest that Australia and these countries all possess in protecting ourselves from armed attack by external powers. If there is success in sustaining the recognition of a common interest Australia has the prospect of an environment which adds protection to the defence of Australia, rather than creates a defence hazard for us. 
Nonetheless the shaping must address all credible contingencies- including the contingency that in some calamitous situation we might again find, as was once our experience, territory to Australia's north occupied by a country with hostile intent towards us. Australia's force must exploit the advantages of the sea and air spaces which would separate us from the bases of such an enemy. We cannot assume that all threats could necessarily be disposed of at a distance. I do suggest nevertheless that we would be well advised to reflect a little more carefully than some commentators do upon our present and future capabilities. I read recently a suggestion about our being 'invaded' within a small number of years. It is time some straight talking was done about this kind of proposition. 'Invasion' is not a term to be used loosely by responsible people. I take it, therefore, that it was meant seriously and was intended literally to connote the onslaught of tens of thousands of foreign troops on this country for the purpose of taking it from us or of forcing an Australian Government to bend to the will of a foreign power. 
Let us think what that means. It means, firstly, the possession by a foreign power or alliance, hostile towards us, of maritime strength sufficient to overcome our own and gain substantial mastery of the seas around us, and the air space over them. The question is not- and I cannot emphasise this enough- the question is not whether some wooden boats or light aircraft can sometimes reach some lonely Australian shore undetected when only a small part of the military, and I stress military, means of surveillance and interception that we actually possess is deployed against them, and never for the purpose of destroying them. There are very few nations which possess today the capacity to project maritime power across thousands of miles and produce, at the other end of a very long line of communications, the kind of force on the sea, in the sea and over the sea that could overwhelm our own maritime capabilities in our own home waters and the air space above them. The two superpowers could do it if they had motive and unrestrained mind and opportunity; and there are two or three European navies which still have a fairly substantial trans-oceanic capability. Those nations are thousands of miles away. Happily, we can number most of them among our friends and allies. Invasion of our country would scarcely be an enterprise on which any country would embark excepting in the context of, or at the great risk of precipitating, very much larger global events. 
To be sure, the Soviet Union has the capability to attempt the invasion of virtually any country in the world, as for that matter does the United States. If one were allowed flights into fancy sufficient to conjure up a world in which no-one else existed but the Soviet Union and one other country, it would require no brilliant insight to demonstrate that the Soviet Union possesses overwhelming conventional military power visavis any one of a hundred or more potential victims. But I put it to this House that that kind of fancifulness does not happen to reflect the real world. 
One could think of a second tier of maritime powers. It is not difficult to flip through  Jane's Fighting Ships  to find second or third tier navies that possess more units than ours: fast, inshore, missile-armed patrol boats, for example, tailored to the operational requirements of the inland waters of the Baltic and the Mediterranean, or the enclosed waters of the South East Asian archipelago. One can distil plenty of parliamentary questions out of researches such as these. It is quite another matter to distil a credible, transoceanic strike force that could overcome our own sea-borne capabilities on, in and over the seas around our own country, defeat our land-based aircraft, blockade us and shepherd an invading force to our shores, and go on supplying and resupplying it. 
Once you go to the second tier of maritime nations you are entering a league- and make no mistake about it- whose members do not possess blue-water capabilities significantly greater, if any greater at all, than our own. There is no way that a member of this second tier of maritime powers could acquire the kind of maritime strength necessary to dominate the sea approaches to Australia without its naval program becoming blindingly obvious, and without the process taking that country an appreciable span of years, and I stress the word years. 
We, in the meantime, possess maritime capabilities which, by standards relevant to our immediate strategic requirements, are substantial, and will remain so. Let me say something about them, and also about our strike capabilities, reminding the House at the same time of my earlier comment about our needing to sustain a force that would deter interference with Australia's sovereignty and protect our supply lines in adjacent maritime areas. 
HMAS  Melbourne  is, by super-power standards, small and aging. Yet in the context of Australian defence she represents for several years to come an important defence asset. Carrying  Skyhawk  fighter aircraft,  Tracker  antisubmarine aircraft and  Sea King  anti-submarine helicopters, she can fight and destroy surface ships, submarines and enemy aircraft hundreds of miles from our shores. Our three guided missile destroyers,  Brisbane, Hobart  and  Perth  can hit very hard, not only with their missiles but each with two five inch guns, which can have half a ton of projectiles in the air before the first shot lands. Each ship's firepower is far greater than a World War II cruiser's. Behind them are our six River' class destroyers with twin four point five inch guns, anti-aircraft missiles, and the Ikara anti-submarine missile, which can drop a torpedo into the lap of a submarine at very long range. 
The question- and I refer now to some current Press stories- is not whether our ships should sink a small barge when they are using a variety of munitions, mostly anti-aircraft, to test the fire power that they could bring to bear if used in that role at a long range, on a ship's superstructure. It would have been a truncated and unrewarding exercise if the barge had been disposed of when our ships first fired upon it. The question is whether, using their primary weapons in their primary roles, our vessels could stop enemy ships. And that, I suggest, is an altogether different matter. 
Augmenting our maritime forces, starting next year, will be the three FFGs, guided missile frigates, building in the United States of America. These ships will bring to Australia new strengths and new weapons. They are to be armed with Harpoon- the most modern anti-ship missile in the world- the latest surface-to-air missile, and will be able to carry two helicopters, acting as the eyes' of the ship, targeting Harpoon over the horizon where radar cannot see. They are firmly in the program. 
Supporting these forces, and enabling them to stay at sea for long periods, are the replenishment ship  Supply  and the destroyer tender  Stalwart.  The program provides for replacement of  Supply.  Those are the major surface ships. 
Under the sea, our six Oberon class submarines are particularly effective. Their present and future weapons systems will make them the most advanced conventional submarines in the world. Extremely difficult to detect, they can hit hard hundreds, and if need be thousands, of miles from our shores. Ten years ago the Royal Australian Navy was barely in the submarine business. Today, it is there in a way which, by any but super-power standards, and certainly by regional standards, is highly significant. The program provides for fitting the capacity to launch Harpoon anti-ship missiles while submerged. 
Modern patrol boat facilities at Darwin will both match and maximise the capabilities of the IS new patrol craft that are in the program and will begin to enter service in the next 12 to 18 months. Likewise a new patrol boat base will be built at Cairns. 
The facilities at Cockatoo Island Dockyard now provide an excellent capability for refitting two submarines concurrently. Previously, that was not practicable. Until June 1978 we had no substantial naval facility in the west. Since then the facility at Cockburn Sound has been commissioned and is capable of supporting the deployments of our fleet, and, indeed, those of our allies. It enables our ships to be deployed for long periods away from their home fleet bases on the east coast. 
What I have just described is not a picture of impotence or unpreparedness. 
The Royal Australian Airforce's two squadrons of Orion aircraft form a remarkable force. The word 'reconnaissance', in its World War II sense, fails altogether to convey what each of these airborne platforms of surveillance and detection can already do. With Harpoon missiles and the Barra Sonobuoys to come- and they are in the program- the Orions will have remarkable powers both to seek and to destroy at long range in the approaches to Australia- and beyond, if that should be the mission. Plans are being developed to modernise the older Orions, to give them too a better surveillance capability- with commencement within the five year program. 
In the program period we have included initial provision for capabilities that will be needed when the aircraft carrier HMAS  Melbourne  retires. I do not yet have the recommendations of the Chiefs of Staff Committee or financial advice on what form those capabilities should take. But it is neither necessary, nor desirable, to make such decisions prematurely. The relevant technologies and the performance of V-stol aircraft using seaborne platforms are still unfolding, and their futures depend on decisions still to be made in countries such as America and Britain. It is necessary for us to look at the whole matter of tactical airpower at sea and to weigh up the alternative ways of projecting it by land-based aircraft. 
I put it to the house that our maritime capabilities in our region do not lag behind the second tier of maritime nations, and are not in danger of slipping behind them. Under this Government they will certainly not do so. 
Let me mention some other aspects of maritime preparedness. We plan a program of construction, in our own dockyards, of new surface vessels for maritime defence. Studies are being made of overseas designs with a view to assessing what alternative levels of capability and cost are likely to be available for choice of a design appropriate to Australia's particular geographic and strategic circumstances. We have to foresee operational requirements well into the next century. 
The basic facilities as Learmonth airfield have been extensively upgraded so that it can be used as a forward base. Already it has supported maritime surveillance operations off the Western Australia coast and operational exercises by the strike and fighter forces. 
We will proceed with the development and prototype construction of the unique minehunting catamarans and so redress the deficiency that now exists in our mine counter-measure forces. We are also examining how best to improve our minesweeping capability. 
Also relevant to our maritime capabilities is a plan to increase the hydrographic survey work that we undertake around our coast both for defence and national purposes. More hydrographic vessels will be acquired. These will be built in our naval dockyard at Williamstown, Victoria. 
The process of converting the ex-Leyland plant at Zetland into a centralised stores depot for the Navy is well advanced. Computercontrolled stock retrieval systems will contribute directly to the Navy's operational effectiveness. 
The overall modernisation of Garden Island Dockyard in Sydney is part of the program. It is to commence during the next two years and will upgrade the efficiency and capabilities of the dockyard. It will be done in a manner which will enhance the appearance of the island and reduce air, noise and water pollution. It will include facilities to repair and maintain systems on the three new guided missile destroyers. 
Again I suggest that our maritime capabilities do not lag behind and are not in danger of doing so. I suggest once more that the requirement to maintain sufficient force to deter interference with Australia 's sovereignty is being met and will continue to be met. 
Let me turn to some other matters. Seven years in service, the F-111s are proving, and will continue to prove, to be a good investment as a strike force. There is nothing within thousands of miles of this continent that can match them. It is time that we reminded ourselves that these aircraft can, at long range, at great speed in all weather and at night, penetrate defences and deliver thenweapons loads. That does not suggest a nation unable to hit back- and to do so with telling effect. Our strike force nevertheless will need updating, particularly with more versatile weapons, and this will be started during the current program. We plan extensive improvements including fitting for new electronic warfare equipment, air-to-surface precision guided missiles, and more modern target acquisition and tracking systems, all based on the latest digital computer technology. These would require new avionics equipment. In the meantime we are, right now, in the process of equipping the strike force with a reconnaissance capability superior to anything we have ever had before. 
To maintain and service aircraft and their systems such as these, which are likely to remain at the forefront of military technology for a long time, Amberley has been developed as a base of the most modern kind. There is not a comparable base within thousands of miles. Many parts of the defence program command less attention because they are less glamorous. I might give an instance. A works program is at this time greatly extending the fuel storage capacities at major Royal Australian Air Force bases. By January 1980 total capacity will be almost double what it was in 1977. Amberley's has already gone up fourfold; work at Richmond- about a fivefold increase- is nearly completed; expansion at Williamtown- nearly fourfold- will be finished early in 1980. 
I emphasise yet again the asset we continue to have in the Mirage fighter force. The aircraft will serve us well for some years to come, overlapping later with the new tactical fighter aircraft to be selected from types either in inventory, or still to be developed, in the United States or France. As I informed the House on 8 March last, a RAAF operational and technical specialist mission leaves today, closely followed by an industry team, to pursue in depth the evaluation of contending TFF aircraft including the development of plans for Australian industry participation. In the meantime, there is provision in the program for retaining the effectiveness of Mirage into the late 1980s. New air-to-air missiles will be acquired with the new fighters; and the Mirages too will be equipped with new air-to-air missiles to maintain air defence capability through the 1980s. More helicopters will need to be ordered in the next three years to carry out a wide range of tasks in the Defence Force. We have to improve our capabilities over what we possess in our Wessex utility helicopters. We need new training helicopters to replace our older Iroquois in that role. We plan to improve our helicopter search and rescue capability. We are studying how much commonality is possible in the interests of economy and a workload for industry. The Department of Defence is working with Australian aircraft industry as we define the fixed wing aircraft to be acquired in the late 1980s for basic and advanced air training. Our Canberra aircraft are used for such tasks as photographic survey work and target towing work. Their use in survey programs in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia has been invaluable. We will provide in the coming years for these roles. 
I return now to the suggestion which I read recently that the prospect of our being invaded within a small number of years had implications- the suggestion was immediate implications- for the size of the Australian Army. May I refer again to our need to have a defence force with the men in the right skills, possessing the right weapons, that can train and develop a force expanded in size, should a direct threat to Australia begin to emerge. This applies to the Army and I hope most honourable members would by now be satisfied that we are not yet in a situation where invasion of this country needs to be taken as a serious, imminent possibility. In the interest of rational defence debate, we must resist a somewhat old fashioned concept of measuring the country's military capability in terms of the number of men in our Army, or the number of men we could contribute to overseas expeditionary forces in a major conflict in a distant theatre. 
Lest it be said tomorrow, 'Killen knocks the Army', let me say here and now that we shall always need an army large enough to embrace and keep abreast of the most modern skills of land warfare and to provide a basis for expansion, while being ready for lesser contingencies that may require the deployment of some part of it. On all the advice to successive Australian governments, the size of regular army should be between 30,000 and 40,000 plus a substantial, reasonably well-trained reserve. We have a total army of 54,000 today- 32,000 regulars and 22,000 reserves. It is highly professional and so regarded internationally. It trains hard. It is the core of leadership and skill around which, in some future defence emergency, we would build. We have the largest full-time army this country has ever maintained in peacetime. The reserves are at a satisfactory level at 22,000 effectives. 
I digress for a moment to take exception to some exaggerations to the effect that the Army is so limited as to be unable to do this or that. To be sure, extraction of 300 engineers, or 700 logistic personnel for overseas service, causes disruptions and extra costs and puts training schedules out of phase and balance- and a good deal more so than is commonly realised. But there is an enormous difference between these things being tackled in a considered, compassionate and orderly way, consistent with the way any other section of our community would arrange its affairs in peacetime; and the way they can be done, and would be done, in an emergency. It is absurd, when spreading invasion scares, to assert as I read in one recent Press account, that 'as Australia can muster only a few thousand troops if we were invaded, we would be far from ready'. This is no less silly than my saying that, as I could not put my horse in the Melbourne Cup if it were held tomorrow, I should shoot him tonight. The Melbourne Cup is not being run tomorrow. Please let us have a sensible and serious debate about defence, and about how thousands of millions of taxpayers' money should responsibly be spent, which is based on worthy propositions, not a competition in scare mongering or political grandstanding. There are things which should prudently, and I stress 'prudently', be done in respect of our ground forces in the program period. 
The Government aims to improve the air and sea mobility of the ground force within Australia, and the capacity of the Services to move a modest force over the seas and sustain it in limited operations. Next year the new amphibious heavy lift ship HMAS  Tobruk  will be commissioned. She will operate out of new facilities to be built in Brisbane. She will give the Defence Force a capability for moving men and equipment to any location around our coast without the use of port facilities. We already have a substantial air-lift capability in fixed and rotary-wing aircraft and have recently acquired a fleet of new C-130 aircraft. Special emphasis will continue to be put on preserving a storehouse of expertise in the various corps which would enable such a force to be built up from the bottom if a threat called for it. We have already improved our armour. And may I say here that the one point which critics contrived to overlook last November is that it will sometimes be a wise course in Australia 's circumstances to hold and maintain certain equipments on a care-and-maintenance basis instead of working all of them, full time, all the time. In the program we shall be acquiring new trucks and additional lighter vehicles that will improve mobility and logistic support capability. 
The Army's present 5.5 inch gun will be replaced early in the program by new 155mm towed howitzers incorporating the significant technological advances that have been made in range and delivery accuracy. Other support equipment will be acquired to enhance the Army's mobility in the field. We will also be furthering the Army's own independent electronic warfare capability, and acquiring new combat surveillance equipment in order to keep up with technological advances in this important area. 
I mention some further planned developments applying to the Defence Force as a whole. We intend to adopt the latest improvements in simulators for training. This applies not only to our fighter and strike aircraft but we are acquiring simulators for training our new P3C aircraft personnel, adapted to the Barra Sonobuoy Antisubmarine Warfare system. Many command and control tasks on board our guided missile destroyers can be simulated on shore, and investigations are proceeding into similar equipments in relation to the FFGs. 
Communications equipment is important. A project now under way will ultimately give our land forces modern light-weight portable and secure radios for field operation. Ships communications systems will be augmented with advanced radio systems and new teleprinters. The secure communication network in Australia, already announced, will be extended. The initial phase in Queensland and Victoria will be extended in the next few years to cover both New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. 
I do not feel what I have just outlined conveys a sense of the ineffectual, or the mismanaged. What is being done comprehends an efficiently managed and thoroughly thought-through review of this nation's defence capabilities, setting priorities right within the financial limits that have to be imposed. 
I would like to say something more on that point. Some honourable members may be aware that each month I chair a meeting of the Council of Defence. It comprises my colleague the Minister assisting me, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay),  the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the three Service Chiefs. I preside at the Council meeting. The meeting discusses a monthly summary of defence business. The document spans the full range of activity of the force and the Department. It covers, to mention but a few examples, the main exercises in hand and in prospect; progress in service training programs; Defence Force activities in assistance to the civil community; surveillance operations; dealings with our allies on strategic matters; progress in scientific research; progress with equipment projects; problems with tenders or quotations; recruitment trends; service activities abroad, for example, with the United Nations; and the effects of budgetary constraints, labour disputes, accidents, impending legislation and other matters. Despite the stringent economy of words the report is never fewer than 20 pages. 
I relate this not out of complaint but because I appreciate the enormous span of activity which is managed daily and with great professional competence by the commanders of the Defence Force and the officials of the Department of Defence. I have actively encouraged debate in this country about defence issues. My friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  was gracious enough recently to acknowledge that. But I have to say that I sometimes despair of some of the results. 
I may have overestimated the willingness of the media to discriminate between the compulsive critic and the informed and balanced critic; or to discern the man who has a valuable, intellectual contribution to make, from the lobbyist seeking to advance a material interest of his own, or of his sponsors. Perhaps I have had too much faith in the proposition that taking party politics out of the defence debate is an objective that can be achieved, and that discussion of defence matters will rise above the level of sensationalising the views of the precious and the disgruntled. This Parliament would benefit from more open mindedness and willingness to listen. I am personally distressed by the prejudice that I sometimes hear expressed towards defence administrators. 
Let me be clear about one thing: It will always be easy to point to areas of our defence structure that need, or will sooner or later need, attention. As requirements are met or problems solved, new ones will take their places. But the central judgment will always be: How soon, how fast, in what order of priority and at what cost. These judgments- the defence decisions- will be made in the Cabinet rooms, or the offices of the two Ministers in charge of defence matters. They are not made by civil servants or military officers. I want to add something about distribution of spending in the defence budget. We need to refresh our perceptions of some of the fundamental matters involved in defence administration. 
I turn to manpower. Manpower is our largest single defence cost, and our most important asset. In 1977-78 it accounted for 54 per cent of all defence spending. Yet ours is not a manpower-intensive defence posture and there are obvious reasons why it cannot be so in peacetime, which I should not need to dwell upon. But there is a point I want to put with some force: The more complex the equipment we bring into service, the more expensive our manpower will be. The quality of manpower needed pushes defence further into the high cost bracket. Not merely to remain competitive with the civilian sector and provide wage equality, but in terms of training, retraining, specialisation, broader education, higher education. 
A core force concept such as we have will not work unless it embraces also the concept of that core force maintaining exceptionally high professional standards. I would like to comment here about a related matter which is not widely understood. It is sometimes said that our peacetime defence force is 'top heavy'. Of course it is. I do not think this is an area where we can indulge ourselves in parsimony. There is a long lead time for producing senior commanders, staff officers, top-flight NCOs upon whom we would depend to lead an expanded force in war. 
We would be in dire trouble if the career structure in, say, our Navy, allowed only a handful of men to achieve an Admiral's rank and pay. 
What of officer retention rates under those circumstances- not to mention the quality of the professional advice available to governments? It is always to be remembered that the task of defence administration under peacetime standards of financial efficiency and scrutiny, properly demanded by this Parliament and by law, calls on experience and professionalism in the Public Service as well as the Services. 
The nature of defence administration has been attracting the attention of some commentators. On that subject I invite consideration of an address, delivered a fortnight ago by the country's most senior military officer, General  Sir Arthur  MacDonald. He said inter alia: 
There seems to be an impression that the secretary's responsibility for financial administration and control of expenditure empowers him to decide, on his own initiative if you like, what equipment is bought and what is not- despite the views of the Chiefs of Staff or the Chief of Staff of the service directly concerned. This, of course, is nonsense, and it might be an appropriate stage for a few words on the committee structure within the Department No one person is the complete expert on any major defence issue. 
Those words of General  Sir Arthur  MacDonald should be heeded by some of the commentators in the country. He continued: 
Indeed the skills and knowledge of a number of uniformed and civilian experts can be required to make a sound judgment on a matter which might call into play strategic considerations, operational requirements, defence science and technology, the capabilities of industry, financial programming and contractual aspects. Committees are a necessary part of defence as they are of any large organisation, in order to bring together the range of views which need to be taken into account in determining complex questions. 
This is the opinion of a man who has served this country in peace and war for 40 years. He continued: 
Incidentally, contrary to popular opinion, there has not been an increase in the proportion of civilian to service personnel in defence. Since 1973 there has been a significant decrease. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to make one point perfectly clear I do not believe that the role of the Public Service in the department is as all powerful as many outside defence say it is. Such a misconception does little credit to the knowledge and understanding of those who propagate it. It underplays the absolutely fundamental responsibilities and contributions of uniformed personnel at all levels. Personally, I find this particular criticism quite insulting and if anyone has information which would stand up to scrutiny I would be interested to hear it. 
Those are the views offered on one narrow but very important aspect of defence administered by General  Sir Arthur  MacDonald, the Chief of Defence Force Staff. 
I come back to manpower. Our defence manpower costs in this country are about the same as in other countries with which we might compare ourselves. In the United States, for example, they are 57 per cent when calculated on the same basis as our own; in Canada, 60 per cent; in Britain, 45 per cent. Our Defence Force development polley has insisted, nevertheless, that the manpower expenditure rates must continue to come down. There is no way this can be done quickly. There are prior requirements to satisfy. I have mentioned some of them: Retraining, new specialisation and higher education. There is usually a price in manpower to pay when a new equipment is introduced into the Force. 
I have spoken earlier in this House regarding the canard about an army of bureaucrats. But it still persists. I would ask the patience of the House while I seek once more to dispose of the matter.  (Quorum formed).  I was dealing with the canard about an army of bureaucrats. I would like to give some further facts to the House. Thirteen per cent of all defence expenditure today goes to civilian salaries and wages. Five years ago the figure was almost 1 7 per cent. Something like 6,500 defence civilian jobs have been given up or transferred to other functions in recent years. Of the 30,700 who remain, about 5,600 are dockyard employees and 22,800 fall into other categories including professional engineers, naval architects, scientists, technical officers, draftsmen, tradesmen, artisans, storemen, drivers and the like; or else they work in regional offices providing accounting, clerical and other support; or they comprise the staffs of computing services, the Joint Intelligence Organisation, and the like. Comparing like with like, there are in the Australian Defence structure 450 civilians to every 1,000 servicemen. In the United Kingdom, there are 825; in the United States of America, 490; and in Canada, 420. Some 2,300 civilians- Public Servants- occupy positions in the central divisions and branches of the Department of Defence, which, contrary to the most obstinate myth, do not comprise a massive bureaucracy. The civilian functions at Russell Hill are today more streamlined and more coherent, than they have ever been. The fact is that 68 per cent of defence civilians are employed directly under the service chiefs of staff. The fact is that, did they not exist, the functions they perform would have to be carried out by servicemen diverted from tasks more directly relevant to the role of the Defence Force. Five years ago, total manpower costs stood at 6 1 per cent of defence expenditure. Today they are down to 54 per cent. The 7 per cent reduction in manpower costs has been achieved even while well-deserved improvements to service terms and conditions were being made and while qualitative improvements, in the nature of long-term investment, were also being made- and continue to be made- in Australian defence manpower. Let me cite but three examples. We have today a Joint Services Staff College providing mid-career education for the senior officers of the future. We did not have one 10 years ago. We have today a Joint Warfare Establishment. We did not have it four years ago. We have today a Naval Staff College. We did not have it one year ago. 
I turn to the question of officer retirements. It is one assiduously pursued by some commentators. Almost every organisation contains people who will leave it earlier than their compulsory retiring age. Their number will, for a time, increase perceptibly in organisations which introduce procedures to make retirement possible in the last few years of service with little financial penalty. Every organisation will also contain people who, before acquiring pension rights, decide to quit, whether out of dissatisfaction or because of the attraction of alternative employment, or for any of dozens of other possible reasons. Every large organisation will have particular areas in which, at particular times, it would hope for a good retention rate, and other areas where a higherthannormal turnover may even be welcome. 
The defence force is very much like the rest of our society in these respects, and one would not have it otherwise. I suggest the figures for officer resignations are not significantly different from those among the professional groups in any large industrial undertaking. They vary a little from time to time and from specialisation to specialisation, but they have in the past two or three years mostly been about what one would have expected in most respects, in most categories, most of the time. They are not the subject of abiding concern to the chiefs of staff. Even if they seem to exercise one or two observers whose own resignations from the Defence Force did not leave the unbridgeable gaps they might have supposed. 
I have spoken about manpower and 54 per cent of defence expenditure. Another 27 per cent or thereabouts goes on running costs. The money feeds, clothes and houses the Defence Force, buys the consumable stores and maintenance spare parts, the computing services, and the maintenance services. It pays the rent, power, freight, fuel and other bills. The House will not want an interminable list. In Russell Hill jargon it finances the activities of the Defence Force. It funds their main function in peace-time, which is to train for war with equipment kept in serviceable condition. It funds, additionally, the operations that they conduct in peace-time such as surveillance and patrol, United Nations peacekeeping and assistance to the civil community. The Defence Force is a busy force. It has intensive training and other programs. There is constant activity. But it all costs money. A patrol boat costs about $1,000 per day to run; a DDG, $18,000; an Orion aircraft, $2,300 per hour to operate; a Mirage aircraft, $2,900 per hour to operate; and a CI 30, $1,300 an hour. To give some point to those figures I point out that they exclude manpower costs. 
The progressive refitting of the submarine squadron accounts on average for about $17m annually. Qualitative improvement nevertheless is constant. If some facilities are old and in need of attention, others, such as Puckapunyal, in general terms, and the base at Amberley that I have mentioned, are as modern as one could wish. There exists a very high-level technicalapprenticeship training scheme, producing tradesmen for the benefit of the Defence Force and, indeed, the nation as a whole. Time will not permit me to do more than mention defence cooperation with other countries, which takes up a further one percent of the defence Budget. Yet I might remind the House that within the region our military reputation stands high. Fierce competition exists for places on Australian military training courses. Some 600 to 700 foreign students attend such courses each year. Nearly 2,000 members of the Defence Force serve in neighbouring countries, transferring knowledge and expertise. 
Let me mention but one more example: Over the past 10 years Australian Army surveyors, with Royal Australian Air Force and Royal Australian Navy support, have contributed more to knowledge by the governments concerned of the physical features of the archipelago to our north than was gathered in the hundreds of years of colonial administration. With 54 per cent of the defence expenditure allocated to manpower, 27 per cent to running costs and 1 per cent to defence co-operation programs, we are left with 18 per cent for capital equipment and facilities, including 14 per cent for equipment. The latter is the crunch-figure. Whilst never ignoring the importance of trained men in service, the provisions for capital equipment and weapons systems are an absolutely fundamental measure of our preparations against future uncertainties. The corresponding figure in 1974-75 was 6 per cent. It has gone up every year since then; and in the context, moreover, of larger overall defence budgets. It will rise in the years ahead. 
To be sure, some part of the investments funds are being used to foot the bills for equipments decided upon in earlier years. I will not be ungenerous about that. Some of the planning that was in train when we came to power, some of the decisions that had been taken, were completely justifiable. It was right, for instance, to decide to buy FFGs and P3Cs from the United States. Of course, there were gaps to be filled between taking decisions and actually placing any orders. Some quantities were inadequate and needed adding to. I remind the House that this Government made good the shortcomings in both the instances I have cited, and in others. I do not wish to introduce a polemic note, but the question will intrigue the House, as it has intrigued me, as to how our predecessors had planned to pay for their decisions- if and when translated into orders. In any event it fell to us to provide the money. We have done that, and very much more as well. Capital equipment investment for the future has more than doubled under this Government. It continues to rise. 
I turn to the patrol frigate program. Three patrol frigates- FFGs as they are so styled- are being built for Australia by United States naval shipbuilders. The practice is, as the House will know, periodically to review the estimated cost of these works. I can now inform the House of the latest position after a review with the United States Navy. The revised estimate of the average sailaway cost for each ship is $132m in August 1978 prices. This is an average increase of about $9m for each ship over the previously announced estimates. The contract which the United States Navy has with the shipbuilders is of a type which provides the builder with an incentive to deliver on time and to contain costs. Progress in the construction program is encouraging. The performance of the lead ship has fully justified the confidence of the United States and Australian navies in the capabilities of these ships. In August 1978 prices the total project cost for the three ships is currently estimated at $642m. 
It is not generally understood that the project cost covers a great number of matters and extends to a wide range of activities. The cost includes outfits of missiles and torpedoes, spares, maintenance equipment, assistance to secure Australian industry participation, travel and overseas allowances associated with training, training equipment and helicopters. I make a specific reference to the provision of funds within the project cost concerning helicopters. The figure I have given includes the provision of $95m for helicopters. As I have explained, helicopters add substantially to the operational capability of the FFGs. No final selection of type has yet been made. I believe it may prove possible to satisfy the RAN 's requirement at a lower cost than the figure I have given. In the interests of project control, cost estimates issued from time to time henceforth will combine the costs of the three ships as this facilitates better project control. 
Some grossly inaccurate statements have been made with respect to the FFG project. The position deserves to be made clear. In October 1978 I informed the House that the total project cost for the three FFGs was estimated at $600m. That figure was expressed in 1977 prices. That figure of $600m expressed in August 1978 prices would be approximately $649m. There has been, in fact a reduction in real terms of $7m in the FFG project. 
I want to conclude with some general comments. As I have said we possess substantial capabilities and the core of the Defence Force we may need in the future exists in the Navy, Army and Air Force. In strike and defensive capabilities we obviously have limits in numbers, but we have the skills and equipments needed as a basis for expansion. There are some discernible deficiencies but the significance of them has always to be weighed, as I have earlier suggested, against the likelihood of an international situation arising where we could be caught unprepared. As long as it can be assesed that no potential military adversary of Australia has a significant long-range capability, the present limitations in the size of our continent-wide surveillance and air defence systems can be accepted. But obviously this is an area which must be kept under review, and it will be kept under review. The defence programe is currently and in the immediate future allotting unusually large sums to various technologies for gathering data and information about our maritime and terrestial neighbourhood. These include activities by us both undisclosed and disclosed. The latter includes the over-the-horizon radar, long-range aircraft with their various sensors, naval patrol vessels, and submarines equipped with advanced sonic facilities. I believe it is right to continue to place this emphasis on surveillance and information gathering in our defence program even though not insignificant sums are thereby diverted from direct combat capabilities, whether manpower or weapons. 
The region of South East Asia and the SouthWest Pacific does not contain at present a longdistance offensive capability which could be regarded as a threat to Australia's capacity to defend itself. In the event of a deterioration to the point of a threat to Australia, we have many requirements which would need to be satisfied but we would have the singular advantage of a defence force that has mastered the very high technology equipment which is now held in the Navy, Air Force and Army and around which the country would build as the threat developed. The Government has not thought it necessary to provide, as yet, in the program for aerial refuelling, airborne early warning capabilities. It is our judgment that it is right to place this later in our consideration. There are approximately 1.3 million categories of items in service inventories. The management of those inventories is a prodigious task. It is an absolutely vital one. 
There are some holdings of equipment spares and maintenance stores that are lower than I would like them to be. There are some categories of ammunition stocks that I would like to increase. I would prefer to see more orders being placed by my officers than financial limitations enable them to do. There are some service activities that have been disturbed. Discussion in Cabinet leaves me confident that we will be able to make a significant increase in expenditure on these items in 1979-80. 1 can say with equal confidence that increased levels of expenditure will be maintained in successive years. Meanwhile, I want to give the House an assurance that the intrinsic defence capability of the country has not been impaired by such shortages as exist. Assessments of the adequacy of stocks of spares and maintenance stores to be held by the Services must take account of certain favourable resupply arrangements we enjoy. Many items are produced locally; some in our own factories. It deserves to be acknowledged that some 55 per cent of defence expenditure on equipment, spares, maintenance, repair and overhaul is spent in Australia. Where we must purchase from abroad it is usually under special government-to-government arrangements. In the case of purchasing from the United States, these arrangements provide our Services with the great advantage of direct access to the large stocks of the United States Services without the necessity to re-negotiate with manufacturers. 
I accept the Government's judgment- as I may add do our chiefs of staff- that, on the balance of things, we shall have to persevere with some continuing restraints on service training activities and that in the present international circumstances the risks in doing so are acceptable. We shall meanwhile steadily raise our acquisition of major equipments. The Government will sustain the campaign against inflationwhich I may say would be no friend of the defence effort of the country if it defeated us. The personality of Australia has changed very greatly in the last generation. We may not always be conscious of the nature of that change but change there indeed has been. In 1952 there was genuinely held concern by many people in this country that Australia should participate in the ANZUS agreement without the United Kingdom as a member of that agreement. Time and tide wait for no man. The past can instruct. It is the future which concerns. 
As the nation has changed, so indeed has its responsibilities. For the greater part of our national existence we depended substantially for the preservation of our national integrity upon the United Kingdom and the United States. Events have required us to meet that concern from substantially our own resources. We are doing just that. Australia today has a defence capability which is consistent with our responsibilities and our circumstances. Australia has an intelligence gathering and assessing capability singular in quality. We have a surveillance and interdiction capability completely reflective of our determination to preserve our national sovereignty. We have developed technological military capabilities which are unique in our area. We have developed the skills and trained personnel to support them. The cost of this endeavour is clear. The complexity of it should be acknowledged. 
There is in the service of the Defence Force of this country a professionalism quite exceptional in the country's history. That professionalism does not and will not tolerate complacency; it is critical of mediocrity of performance; it is anxious to correct shortcomings; it is responsive to events; it gives advice promptly and bluntly. That professionalism has put at the disposal of this country a defence capability which is certainly not under-estimated by people who live outside it. 
It is my hope that that defence capability will not be diminished by those who live in it. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department of Transport quoted the substance of the submission made by the Department of Defence in its Report which was tabled in Parliament on 1 1 October 1978. In summary, the Defence submission said: 
National Defence planning relies on the existing infrastructure of civilian transport modes. Australian airline resources provide essential capacity to Defence air transport requirements both in peace and in times of national emergency. 
b) An Australian based and supported airline industry is vital to Australian defence. This includes both the air transport resource and the supporting facilities that allow aircraft to fly. 
If suitable charter aircraft are not available in the QANTAS fleet for Defence requirements, then Defence would support: 
pan charters with surplus capacity being filled by paying customers; or 
QANTAS sub-chartering Australian internal airlines when QANTAS aircraft are unsuitable or unavailable. Defence would oppose the subchartering of foreign international air carriers. ' 
A small part of the material in the submission is of an 'inconfidence' nature. With the exception of that part I would be happy to make the submission available to the honourable member and to anyone who wishes to see it. 
The answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Forrest is yes, the Government has decided to fit for the time being the Bofors 40/60 Mk 7 gun to the new Fremantle class patrol boat. Certain clear considerations prevailed upon the Government in taking that decision, not the least of which were considerations of cost. I illustrate that fact very quickly to the House by saying that one tender received for 1 8 new guns predicated an expenditure of approximately $33m. The Royal Australian Navy, in terms of priority, had demands ahead of that expenditure. I point out to the honourable member that the Fremantle class patrol boat will not be operating in any hostile environment; it will not be fulfilling an offensive role. Of course, if there should be any change in those circumstances, the Government would immediately review the decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has restricted officer entry to the Royal Australian Navy to Australian born or to naturalised Australian citizens of at least 10 years standing in order to protect the confidentiality of communications systems, traffic and cryptographic equipment used in the Service and to which Naval officers would inevitably have access by virtue of their service at sea. The 10 year period is considered the minimum normally necessary for security checking purposes. Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Chief of Staff that an adequate security check has been possible, the 10 year rule may be waived. 
Yes. 
See ( 1 ) above. The 10 year rule does not apply where an adequate security check has been possible. 
Variation in citizenship requirements arise from the various categories of employment both between and within the Services and depends on the degree of access each category has to sensitive information or equipment. Before personnel of the other Services are permitted to have access to communications and cryptographic equipment, they must meet the same citizenship requirements as are applied to officer entry into the Navy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 1 September 1977, the RAAF changed the category of certain airmen musterings to create discrete aircrew categories. Concomitantly, an interim pay structure was applied which preserved source mustering pay levels. 
and (3) In March 1978, the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay, an independent advisory body to the Minister for Defence under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Coldham, a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, advised on the correct pay levels to which all Service other rank employments, including the airman aircrews categories, should be allocated. The Government accepted the Committee's advice and revised pay rates, effective from 1 July 1978, are expected to be paid shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The future of the Government Engine Works has been extensively investigated by appropriate Departments since an IAC enquiry of 1974 into diesel engines exceeding 1500 kW. In deciding to dispose of the Works the Government has fully considered Defence aspects, particularly the lack of direct Defence requirements for the types of engines manufactured there. 
Not applicable. 
The committee last reported to me formally on 5 September 1977 when it presented a comprehensive report on the 'Capability of Australian Industry to Meet Defence Needs'. The report was later considered by Cabinet Other matters considered by the committee have been referred to me through Departmental channels. 
Because of its comprehensive nature, the report of 5 September 1977 is classified and cannot be made available. The report did not address the specific question of the future of Government Engine Works. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Defence Industry Committee (DIC) has met formally on thirteen occasions during the last four years, viz. 1975-two, 1976-four, 1977-four, 1978-three. 
A number of meetings were also held by various specialist Panels and sub-committees established by the DIC to examine and report on matters requiring more detailed consideration than would be possible in full committee. 
These include frequent meetings by six industry Study Groups, each chaired by a Business Member of the DIC, in the course of a major study of the defence capability of Australian industry completed in 1977. 
In its major report on the capability of Australian industry to meet Defence needs, which was presented to the 
Government in 1977, the Committee specifically considered offsets. 
The Committee recommended in particular that the present policy of using procurement of defence materiel to selectively develop essential defence industry capabilities through Australian industry participation including designated programs and offsets should be extended as far as practicable. 
The Committee also recommended that the Department of Defence should continue and intensify its efforts in support of the offset program and that the Committee should review ways of making the offset program more effective in developing defence capabilities. 
Efforts by the Department and the Committee to implement these recommendations are continuing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Military information of interest to Australia is gathered from a number of sources. A Defence Attache resident in a country would be but one of several sources of our military information on that country. Given the limited resources Australia can devote to the collection of military information, we rely to a greater extent on our friends in areas that are of less immediate interest to us while they welcome information from us in areas in which we are closely involved and well informed. 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to his question upon notice No 2565 of 18 October 1978. Nothing has occurred since that date to call for any change in that reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In most cases, the periods have been approximately doubled. However the unit commander has a discretion to order additional servicing should it be considered necessary. 
Yes. 
No. There will be no reduction in the number of maintenance tradesmen grades as a result of the extended servicing schedules. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I will be putting before the Parliament as soon as possible proposals designed to remove these delays in respect of both adjustments to salaries and to other financial conditions of service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On S October 1977 I answered a similar question (No. 1466) from  Mr Scholes.  I can now add that my answer then, as recorded in  Hansard  (Page 1698), applies equally to the period since the end of World War II. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The reports are a distortion of the facts. No aircraft weapons were used, the so called derelict barge was a 63 year old oil fuel lighter (OFL) of sturdy construction wilh eight watertight compartments. The sinking of the lighter by naval gunfire or weaponry was incidental to the main aims of the exercise. The aims of the exercise were: 
for HMAS  Hobart  to carry out air target firing against a Jindivik target aircraft overflying the OFL: 
for all ships to carry out surface engagement with guns and missiles against the OFL: and 
to evaluate ammunition effectiveness against a surface target (OFL). 
All aims were generally achieved. The air target firing was successful though the Jindivik was not flown directly over the OFL. Surface engagements at the OFL resulted in several missiles and shells impacting on and around the OFL. The results of the exercise were recorded and are being analysed. A Clearance Diving Team was embarked to scuttle the OFL on completion of the firings. This they did with demolition charges and it provided the team with a useful training exercise. 
(a) HMA Ships  Hobart, Perth, Vendetta, Swan  and  Derwent. 
Missile Fire Control System MIC74 with Tartar missiles, Guided Weapon System MK 20 with Seacat missiles, 
Gun Fire Control Systems MK 68, M22 and MRS3 with 5" and 4.5" gun ammunition. 
The normal safety rules for peacetime weapon firings and a finite amount of ammunition were restrictions. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
1 ) One Tartar missile was fired at an air target and four were fired at a small floating barge. The missiles are valued at $57,000, not $ 120,000. These missiles are nearing the end of their life and are being replaced in inventory by Standard missiles. 
No. One missile successfully intercepted a Jindivik high-speed pilotless target aircraft. Four anti-aircraft missiles were fired at the floating target from beyond 8 nautical miles. Two exploded at the target, one is reported as impacting in the vicinity of the target and one as bursting prematurely. Warhead and blast damage was sustained by the target and the recording cameras on board ceased to operate apparently due to shrapnel strike from the first of these missiles. It should be recognised that Tartar is a surface to air missile which is capable of damaging the lightly constructed ship's superstructure carrying radar search and fire control aerials. The missile and its warhead are neither optimised nor specifically designed for use against ships, but this secondary capability could be important and must be practised and tested. The overall results of Tartar firings in its principal role, namely surface-to-air, have been outstanding. 
The  Derwent  did fire two Seacat missiles which did not hit the target. Each is valued at $ 1 1 ,000, not $65,000. Seacat is a first generation surface-to-air missile with some capability against ships which must be practised and tested on occasions. 

 Vendetta fired 70 shells in groups from its 4.5 inch guns while closing the target at high speed from 9 into 5 nautical miles. Some shells were fused for airburst above the target and some for burst on striking the target. Such gun ammunition is intended to disable rather than sink. The degree of success achieved in this target practice is the subject of detailed analysis by the RAN Trials and Assessing Unit. 
In view of the above answers, and those to Question No. 345 1 , this question does not arise. 
No. 
Investment in Mining and Energy Projects  (Question No. 2942) 
-(Moreton-Minister for Defence)- We pause today from our contest, our contention and conflict to recall the life and work of Frank Stewart and to express our sorrow to his widow and family. We do that with sadness, yet with pride- sadness that he has left us and gone to another world; pride that we have had the privilege of being in this world with him and knowing him so well.  Mr Speaker,  you, the Prime Minister and a few of us still remaining in this House, sat with him in this Parliament for well over 20 years. We had an opportunity of knowing his qualities. I am sure that his family, his colleagues and friends would understand me when I include his weaknesses, but his strengths far outweighed his weaknesses. 
The Right Honourable the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  my friends the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  have spoken about his integrity.  His  integrity was there at all times and so, too, was his courage. There is a very lovely injunction to be found in the Old Testament that seems to me to sum up the life of Frank Stewart: 
. lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; 
Frank Stewart held very strong views and he expressed them without any fear at all, no matter what conflict it might have brought him into within his own political organisation, within this Parliament or in the whole body of political controversy in this country.  His  principles were not acquired with each daily mail or with the publication of some fresh editorial. He held his views with deep religious conviction and clear zeal and this Parliament is the better for it. This Parliament is the better for men and women who hold strong views and express them here without hope or expectation. That was the life of Frank Stewart. In this cynical age, an age that seems determined to batter down rather than to elevate, there are many people who treat very lightly and casually the great estates of integrity and courage. It may be that from time to time those unseen estates are diminished but they can never be destroyed. Why? Because men such as Frank Stewart come among us and add to them with their own superb, sterling qualities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The current total value of offset orders placed on Australian firms as a result of the Leopard Tank purchase is approximately S3m. The higher value orders were for electrical connectors, machine tools, refrigeration equipment parts, lead for tank batteries and a small quantity of nickel as used in tank track alloy steel. Smaller orders have also been fulfilled for plastic lenses, electrical leads, electrical pans and lubrication equipment. 
A large number of other contacts with Australian companies have been made by Krauss Maffei and their subcontractors, but few actual negotiations are in progress due to difficulties in finding suitable matches between present requirements of the German firms and Australian secondary industry products. 
The prime contractor, Krauss Maffei, has recently undertaken to increase the volume of bid opportunities to Australian industry; many of those received so far have not been suitable for Australian firms to quote due to quality and quantity considerations but a moderate volume of business could arise from the remainder if the prices quoted are competitive with European suppliers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The Government's objectives in the development of the Defence Force were outlined in my statement to the House on 29 March 1979. They relate to the defence of Australia as a nation, and not only to the protection of our approximately 36,800 kilometre coastline. 
Against current strategic assessments, the Government believes that the funds presently allocated for defence purposes provide an appropriate level of insurance for Australia against the risks inherent in the potentialities and uncertainties of our strategic environment. 
It has also ensured that those funds are used to the best advantage having regard to the likelihood, importance and timing of the various credible but contingent possibilities of military threat to Australia. No country can be said now to pose a military threat to Australia. 
These judgments are subject to frequent review, as are the strategic assessments on which they depend. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The adequacy or otherwise of physical security measures to protect telephone communications installations must be measured against the assessed threat. I am informed that the threat of sabotage against such installations is low and where these support the Defence Communications system the allocation of costly resources to provide additional physical protection would not be justified. 
If the honourable member is referring to the degree  of  privacy which is afforded to users by existing telephone communications in Australia, my reply must be that no suitable equipment exists which would give a guarantee of protection at all times against the interception of voice communications over standard telephone systems. 
The Department of Defence has embarked on a phased program to instal a secure communications system for voice communications throughout Australia (as well as for other purposes). This network will embrace the majority of Defence establishments and also will be available to other senior Government persons. As publicly announced on 8 
February 1979, this network is to be known as the Defence Integrated Secure Communications Network (DISCON). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) There are six radomes at Pine Gap and two at Nurrungar. 
No radomes are under construction at Pine Gap or Nurrungar. 
The radomes at Pine Gap were installed in 1968, 1968, 1969, 1969, 1971 and 1 977. The radomes at Nurrungar were installed in 1970 and 1972. 
The honourable member for Corio will appreciate that the normal practice is that wherever there is Service participation their is a recovery of costs. I am bound to tell my honourable friend that I know nothing of the assumptions, allegations or suggestions that he has put to me. I give him an undertaking that I will set in train at once such inquiries as may be appropriate and advise him forthwith. 

 - Mr Speaker, that makes two of us for a start. I am grateful to be able to inform the honourable member that at long last he has struck oil, and for the first time in my recollection his question is based on fact, lt was a matter of splendid agreement to me yesterday that  Mrs Linda  Jones rode 'Pay The Purple' to win of all trophies, the Labor Day Cup. My one regret was that I was not there to receive the trophy. They would have had to put the next race back half an hour because it would have taken me that time to sum up the Australian Labor Party. It is true that the Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange, is due to retire in a few weeks or months. I do not know what Boadicea 's politics were but we need a person of that character to fill his shoes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of members of the defence forces who have attended scheduled training courses overseas are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) To preserve the area for possible future requirements of the Australian Services there is no present intention to change the existing boundaries of the Woomera prohibited area. 
The present conditions applying to entry to the Woomera prohibited area will continue. These permit entry to the area for activities such as prospecting, subject to compliance by the party concerned with specified safety and security requirements. 
Last evening I wrote to the honourable member for Corio in these terms: 
There is no substance in the suggestion that the Special Air Services Regiment is providing birthday entertainment for  Mr Lang  Hancock. 
The Special Air Services Regiment is planning to conduct parachute training at Learmonth airfield on 10 June, 1979, as part of its participation in Exercise 'LIONS DEN' being held in this area in the period 4 to 29 June 1 979. 1 understand that a party travelling on an aircraft chartered by  Mr Hancock  is landing at Learmonth on 10 June. 
I would like the honourable member for Prospect to say that to the SAS regiment. Its members would break his neck, and what a public benefaction that would be. 
I would not like to convey the impression that I am lacking in a sense of gravitas, but I have treated this question very importantly. 
-Dignitas as well, and one could tack on pietas. I received an application purporting to be from a former member of this House and a former member of the Executive Council. I treated it very seriously. I thought that it could have been a forgery. I did not want to go through the torment and the tempest of something rivalling the Zinoviev letter of some years ago, so I made inquiries about the application. I would have been grateful for your assistance,  Mr Speaker,  because, dealing with integrity, reliability and the handling of sensitive issues, the application contained phrases such as this: 
I was trained in  the 'leak' proof  Labor Caucus 
That had a ring of truth about it. Referring to ability to undertake research and prepare material, the applicant said that he was just the right man for the job. He went on to say: 
The Minister can forget his dull, uninspiring speeches of the past - 
He is perceptive-  my material will make his contributions the best read in the nation. He might have to resign but he needn't give a reason and when the hullabaloo dies down just rejoin the Ministry. Anyhow the publicity and excitement will be worth this temporary inconvenience. 
I thought that that collocation of language could flow from only one mind and one pen. A further touch of verisimilitude was this statement: 
I have admired the Minister from a distance - 
Nobody else in this place has ever said that-  in a strange kind of way, for a long time. In fact we share some interests together. Take horse racing for instance. I note he is having trouble with Jockeys who evidently haven 't read the classics. Well I could help him in that direction. I know a lot about Leichhardt I represented it for years whether it was Ludwig or not really doesn't matter. I also knew the jockey that was on Lasseter's Last Ride. 
The following postscript was added: 
I forgot to mention that I am experienced in guerilla warfare and underground engineering. 
The letter was signed 'F. M. Daly'. I am deeply convinced as to the truth of the matter, but, after considering the application, I think I will make a recommendation to the Prime Minister that Daly take the job of Minister for Defence and I will join Daly's staff. 
-If I might take first the last question posed by the honourable gentleman, the position of Chief of Army Materiel will be held by Major-General Engel. The position of Chief of the Army Reserve will be held by Major-General Maitland. In due course a recommendation will be placed before me by the Chief of General Staff for the position of Chief of Logistics (Army). In brief, the answer is that the judgment is that the position of Chief of Army Materiel is justifiable on the grounds that it is a very heavy burden for one man to carry and, at the same time, to discharge responsibilities in the logistics area. The honourable gentleman, and the House may get some perception of that assessment if I say that there are some 500 regular and reserve units located at more than 200 places throughout Australia. That, in itself, imposes a very heavy task indeed. On the materiel side, the burden is a heavy and very responsible one. The responsibility is added to by the fact that the cost of equipment is increasing all the time. With respect to the position of Chief of the Army Reserve being filled from the Reserve, this will contribute towards the total concept force of the Australian Army. It would be my expectation that for the post that has not yet been filled I will receive a recommendation in the course of the next week or so and I will so inform the honourable gentleman. 
I would not seek to anticipate the debate initiated by the honourable member for Lilley, but I would take leave to say that I share completely every sentiment that resides in the notice of motion that he has given to the House. It is not just a matter for mere astonishment that a political leader could make the speech of the character that he did; it is to be deeply deplored. I would adopt this language with respect to the bases in question: 'This Government will not yield to pressure to break the American alliance, withdraw from the ANZUS treaty or divulge secrets about American defence bases in Australia'. 
'Shame' says the honourable gentleman. That language was used by the former Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, when he held the responsibility. 
Times have changed, but I venture to say this to the honourable member for Hunter: If the Treasurer imposed a tax on brains he would get a massive refund. I regret very much that the honourable gentleman in question made the speech he did. I am bound to say that personally I respect him and I have a great deal of affection for him, but he has entered upon a highly dangerous field. I believe that the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition would do his party a singular service if he were to state the position of his party with respect to these bases. For my part- I know that I speak for the whole Government and for the Government parties which are not parties to repudiation- I believe that to follow the course advocated by the honourable senator in question would mean a repudiation of the ANZUS agreement, and we do not propose to do that. 
I am not aware of any specific proposals or requests that have been made to the Government. I will inquire as soon as possible from my colleague the Foreign Minister. The capability of the three countries to conduct surveillance of the character to which the honourable gentleman refers varies considerably. Under its military assistance, this country is providing Indonesia, for example, with Nomad aircraft. All the information available to me is that those aircraft have been highly successful for the role assigned to them. I will treat the honourable gentleman's question as being a question on notice and will provide him with the information forthwith. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903,I present the report of the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1 February 1 978 to 3 1 January 1 979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) 1-4 August 1 978 inclusive. 
b) The tests conducted at Holsworthy were part of a noise assessment study initiated by the Department of Defence in 1976, in conjunction with the National Acoustic Laboratories, to measure and evaluate the effects of noise on communities surrounding the range as a result of activities at the Holsworthy range. 
The findings of the tests are still in the process of evaluation by the National Acoustic Laboratories and the results are not yet available. 
See replies to 2 (b) and (c). 
The House resumes the debate on a statement put down last Thursday evening by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Two speeches were made then, one by the Treasurer and the other by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  I am going to invite the House to agree that there was a substantial difference between the two speeches. This may be a matter for ordinary comment, but I would also invite the House and thinking people to reflect upon the two entirely different characters of the speeches. The speech made by the Treasurer could be described only as a very frank speech. It acknowledged quite openly and quite bluntly that considerable political risks were associated with what he was saying. Above all, the speech made by the Treasurer was a courageous speech. By contrast, the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition on behalf of the Labor Party was a speech determined on winning votes and nothing else. 
That is precisely the proposition I want to submit to the House. I suspect that if the honourable member for Prospect could lull himself into a measure of silence even his dogmatic attitude towards the world could be moved a little. The difference between the two speeches represents the difference between the Government parties and the Labor Party. The Government says quite openly that there is a clear need for restraint to be observed, a clear need for this Parliament to be treated with candour, a clear need for the people of Australia to be informed in blunt direct terms as to precisely what our circumstances are. The reaction of the Leader of the Opposition may be summed up in one attack that he made upon the Government and in particular upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer. He said: 'You have broken your promises '. I think this is a very fair capitulation of the attitude of the Opposition: 'You have broken your promises'. That is the view that was expressed by the Leader of the Opposition. I think it deserves to be said in a most explicit form that those of us who sit on this side of the House would have a heavy preference for breaking a political promise rather than letting the nation edge towards bankruptcy. That is the issue. The preference of  Her  Majesty's Opposition is for bankruptcy. The preference of the Government parties is for the stability and development of this country in a rational and reasonable way. They are the potential bankrupters of this country. That is precisely the attitude. When one looks at the position taken up by the Labor Party one will find that that charge can be sheeted right home, and I propose to do that this afternoon. We say that the nation comes first. We say that political fortunes come second. 
It is very fine indeed to take the easy political way out. The Government proposes to take an approach to the affairs of this nation that represents responsibility in government. The Treasurer told the Parliament that we were in prospect of a deficit of $4,600m, and the Leader of the Opposition acknowledged that. If he is to sustain his attack against the Government and say that is valid, then ergo the Leader of the Opposition would be quite happy with a deficit of $4,600m. What would be more calculated to drive this nation towards bankruptcy than to have a deficit of that nature. One does not need to have passed through the London School of Economics to understand a deficit of $4,600m. There is nothing esoteric about it. It means that either the Government borrows the money or it winds up the printing presses, one or the other. 
The Leader of the Opposition taunted us. He said: 'The economy is in the hands of amateurs'. He can taunt as much as he likes. I think it is far preferable to face up to that charge than to see the economy in the hands of professional wreckers. It deserves to be said that accommodating creditors can be found around the country and that money can be borrowed and blown on current consumption year after year, but the day will come when, either with a whimper or a very large bang, something will happen. Members of the Opposition are very smart and very clever chaps indeed. It has been the case down the centuries that nation after nation and empire after empire have all tried to borrow money and to blow the borrowings on current consumption year after year. The history books are there to be read. 
-The trouble with the honourable member for Wills is that he understands no history and he is certain not to make any. 

 Opposition members interjecting - 

The bleating of sheep has never irritated me in my life. To what do members of the Opposition resort when they run up against an argument that they dislike? They make a fuss. There are times when I think the policies of the Labor Party are so sterile that its members would not be able to make a fuss in a fowlhouse at night. 
The Labor Party over the years- certainly while it has been in government- cultivated in this country an attitude of great expectations. We heard the phrases:  'Mr Government,  solve this for us;  Mr Government,  do this for us'. No matter what the reason, every section in the community was encouraged to go along to the Government, to build up the whole paraphernalia of government and, in turn, to impose upon the taxpayer on one hand and to resort to gross irresponsibility with respect to the printing presses on the other. Is it any wonder at all that when the Government led by  Mr Whitlam  was tipped out inflation was running at the rate it was? The nation was edging towards bankruptcy- 
The honourable member for Wills, in the various offices that he held, was a past master at asking for money and at handing it out. Bit by bit the currency was being depreciated. In the language of Charles Dickens: 
Your sight was disturbed 
You grasped at visionary teacups and wine glasses instead of realities. 
This Government faces up to realities. Hence the speech made by the Treasurer last Thursday night was a speech of courage. It was a speech of candour. As a consequence he is admired by the overwhelming majority of people in Australia. I would like to read a very short extract from a lecture given by my friend the Leader of the Opposition. Appropriately, it was given to the Fabian Society in Victoria. He said: 
Social welfare and economic policy are two subjects which are too often discussed in isolation from each other. 
Honourable members can look at the record left behind by the Labor Government of which my friend the Leader of the Opposition was a prominent and, one must say, a distinguished member. Commonwealth outlays in 1973-74 were increased by the Labor Government by 20 per cent. The next year, with an attitude of 'bump it up even more boys' it increased outlays by 45.9 per cent. In 1975-76 the increase was 22.5 per cent. In the first year that this Government came into office it halved that figure to 10.5 percent. 
I come back to the central proposition: Somebody somewhere must pay at the end of the day. The honourable gentlemen who sit on the Opposition benches have had the greatest of difficulty in understanding that simple, elementary principle. That is precisely why this nation now must face up to the realities of the unrealities that were visited upon this country by the governments led by  Mr Whitlam. 
It gives the Treasurer no personal pleasure to state to the Parliament what obviously is a tough dose of medicine for people to take. But what is the alternative? Is it to say that nothing is wrong, to continue to print and borrow money and to imagine that all is well? The fact is that the Treasurer came into the chamber and said: 'We believe in economic responsibility. No matter how unpalatable it is we propose to say so. We propose to ensure that the people of this country understand that.' I say to the honourable member for Wills who is trying to interject that the alternative is to allow inflation to rip along. Wherever inflation has been allowed to rip along it has led not just to the destruction or diminution of the value of the currency but inevitably it has meant the destruction of democratic institutions. Let us take the example of inflation of Germany in the 1920s. A direct line can be drawn between the inflation of Germany and the establishment of the Third Reich. Inflation is a destroyer of the currency but more importantly it is the destroyer of institutions. That fact has never been understood by my friends who sit opposite. I invoke the words of a man who is not held out as a political partisan. He has found himself involved over a long period in dealing with the existence or otherwise of poverty in this country. I refer to Professor Henderson. May I read to the honourable member for Wills what Professor Henderson has said? 
Thank you. At long last courtesy is extended. Professor Henderson wrote: 
Those who suffer most severely (from inflation) are small savers with deposits in savings banks which are rapidly losing their real value. Rich people no longer hold their wealth in fixed interest securities, but poorer people have not the knowledge or opportunity to hold it in ways that provide protection against inflation. Those who have retired on a pension, fixed in terms of money, suffer the full loss of purchasing power as consumer prices rise, and they get no compensation. 
It was a consideration of those circumstances and a consideration of the whole array of democratic institutions in this country that prompted the Treasurer and the Government to put down the statement of last Thursday. I repeat that it was a candid statement. But beyond that it was a statement of great courage. I hope that this Parliament and the people of this country will never forget that, if in the conduct of affairs of high state courage is not to be found, at the end of the day we will find no nation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) Examination has not revealed any Army records bearing on the question asked by the honourable member.  His  question may, however, relate to the RAAF No 1 Central Reserves Unit, Lithgow, which at various times over the period August 1942-December 1945 placed mustard gas in storage at localities in the general vicinity of Lithgow, including in disused railway tunnels. The records reveal a procedure of regular inspection and do not indicate that any untoward development occurred in relation to the stored mustard gas. They show that all the stocks remaining in the area at the end of the war were destroyed by burning in February-March 1946. The scientific advice I have is that there would not be any deleterious effects from either the storage of the gas or its destruction in this area 33 years ago. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Monthly class/day figures of Soviet naval and naval associated ships which operated in the Indian Ocean during the period 1 April 1 978 to 30 April 1 979 are shown in the following table. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I thought that the House would like a bit of a change. Therefore I would like to answer the question. In the first place, the information given by my honourable friend with respect to the cost of the Boeing aircraft is wrong. In the second place, the argument which the honourable gentleman presented in his question is utterly fallacious. What happened in 1969 would seem to me to be splendidly irrelevant to what happens in 1979. After all, the last Cobb and Co. coach ran in Australia in about 1929. Do honourable members opposite suggest that we should all travel by Cobb and Co. coach? The question points up the whole intellectual attitude of the Australian Labor Party. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Honourable members opposite form the most disorganised choir I have ever listened to. The simple fact of life is that the Australian Labor Party has the greatest of difficulty in dragging itself into what is left of the 20th century. These aircraft, as every honourable gentleman opposite knows, were bought for security reasons. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide is trying to make himself out to be as rough a member as he was a shearer. Lest there be any doubt about that, I point out that more tar was used in his shearing shed than was used on the Eyre Highway. My honourable friend should go to the Press Gallery- he could hardly call members of the Press Gallery a collection of neuters- and ask the experienced Gallery observers who have travelled abroad with the Prime Minister about these aircraft. To a man and, I strongly suspect, to a woman they will say that the purchase of these aircraft is thoroughly j justified 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill 1979 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not correct to say that the main thrust of revitalising the CMF is the Employer Support program, and that other areas are being neglected. 
The Millar Report census of CMF members indicated that one in six said their employer was opposed to their service. Considering the number of self-employed and the high proportion (nearly half) employed in Local, State and Federal Government service where release is usually no problem, the figure represented a substantial proportion of CMF members as being so affected. 
The Millar Committee made twenty-nine recommendations. Twenty-two have been implemented in whole or in part. One recommendation has not been adopted, one has been superseded, two are being further investigated and three are awaiting approval. 
Within prevailing financial restraints every effort is being made to make CMF training useful and realistic. Training directives have been reviewed to make them not only more purposeful, but also in line with the concept of the Total Force Army. 
I am aware of the views held by a number of honourable gentlemen on this issue but I would ask them to acknowledge that the matter is by no means free of difficulty. I would begin by reminding the honourable gentleman that the central thesis of the Millar committee's report regarding the position of the Reserve was for the establishment of a total force concept. There is no ambiguity about that whatsoever, and I notice that the honourable member himself acknowledges it. I submit that in a very real sense there is a diminution of that total force concept when one seeks to give to the Reserve component of the total force awards of one character and a different set of awards to the other component. Further, I invite the honourable member and those who share his views, to acknowledge the fact that there were some 1 1 categories of Reserve awards, all of them granted under the old imperial scheme. I am sure that the honourable member would accept as being realpolitik that it would be undesirable completely to re-establish these awards and then to find that some time in the future a government of another kidney abolish them. It would be an intolerable state of affairs. Finally, I would say to the honourable member, the matter is currently under consideration by the Government. The Government is seeking to establish the means whereby the difficulties I have pointed out can be recognised and at the same time the substantial requirements of those who have an interest can be met. 
It deserves to be said to the honourable member for Canberra that just because one poor run is turned in it does not mean to say that he will not get the money. I am aware of the importance of the Australian Defence Force Academy to Canberra. I am aware of the fact that the honourable member for Canberra has sustained a well informed interest in the Academy for a considerable period. I am aware of the fact that the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works has reported against the Academy. 
This is not the occasion on which to initiate a debate on the issue; some things nevertheless deserve to be said. The first is that the Committee, in reporting against the Academy, has not- with due respect to the honourable members who serve on it- given sufficient weight to the fact that there is in existence an agreement between the Department of Defence and the University of New South Wales whereby- 
The honourable member who is interjecting has had his say in the report. I propose to have my say and the say of the Government on this matter. There is in existence an agreement which provides for the ultimate termination of tertiary assistance provided by the University of New South Wales to the Royal Military College. In the absence of that assistance the Government is faced with the difficulty of the future training of cadets at the Royal Military College. Both the Government and I are committed to the concept as a concept, but we are also obliged to face up to the practical difficulty. That which is not practical still remains spurious. The Government must face up to the difficulty of providing the means whereby the cadets who pass through the Royal Military College may gain tertiary qualifications. I trust that the House will accept the significance of the fact that, whereas in 1976 15 per cent to 16 per cent of the officers who served were in need of a tertiary qualification, by the middle of the 1980s that percentage will have doubled. 
The last observation I make concerns a matter on which the Committee has reported, namely, the position of the Australian National University. The Prime Minister will recall, as do I, that as far back as 1946, when a committee was established under General Rowell to report on the training of cadets at the Royal Military College, the Australian National University was asked whether it would provide tertiary education for cadets at the Royal Military College. Its answer on that occasion was no. The Government has the report under consideration. The House may rest assured that the enormous implications of the report will be promptly and, if I may say so, realistically considered by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (Si- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my answer to a Question Without Notice, I informed the House on 1 March 1979 on the steps taken to reduce the civilian element in the Defence Forces. I said that in 1973 the number of civilians employed within the Department of Defence was of the order of 37,300. Today that number has been reduced to 30,700. 
I take this reduction of 6,600 in staff numbers to be the aspect referred to by the honourable member for Corio in his Question. 
This total reduction of 6,600 in civilian staff numbers represents the net result of recruitment to and wastage from the Department in the six years from 1973 to 1979. In that period there has been considerable turnover in both staff and positions and it is not possible to trace out and identify all these movements. Many of the staff positions which were abolished and others which were created arose from the reorganisation of the Departments of Defence, Navy, Army, Air and Supply in 1 975 and 1 976, the transfer of some 6,000 staffs employed under the Naval Defence Act and Supply and Development Act to the Public Service Act in 1975 and 1976 and changes to a number of functions and activities undertaken by Defence. 
Estimates have been calculated of the net changes in staff numbers between 1973 and today in broad functional areas and these are shown below. It is not possible to calculate staff grades because of the lack of comparability between Public Service Act grades and the staff grades of personnel previously employed under the Naval Defence Act and Supply and Development Act referred to above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At 30 April 1979, ASCO employed the following staff for the Woomera Community Store: 
Full-time-25 
Part-time- 5. 
In addition casual staff (currently around 20) are employed to meet peak work loads. 
and (3) Under an agreement with the Department of Defence, ASCO provides a management service in operating the community store. There is a Store Advisory Committee comprising representatives of the Woomera community and ASCO to act as a liaison body between the Woomera Board and store management. No changes in the current arrangements, including staffing levels and Advisory Committee membership are contemplated with the introduction of AAFCANS. 
Non-official Postmasters  (Question No. 3523) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As notified in Commonwealth of Australia Government  Gazette  S241 of 20 November 1978 and G49 of 12 December 1978 the Commonwealth acquired an area of land at Yampi Sound for defence purposes. 
575,000 hectares. 
Grazing. 
The acquisition of the land excluded mineral rights. However, the method of control of mineral exploration and development in the area will not be decided until after consultation between Commonwealth and State officials. 
Yes; some copper deposits have been noted and results of other recent explorations are not yet to hand. 
Refer to (4) above. 
having regard to the estimated frequency of Defence use of the training area, the present scale of mineral exploration in the area, and the limited discoveries of commercial deposits made in the past, it is believed that mineral exploration and exploitation would not unduly affect Defence use of the area. 
Should any claims be made against the Commonwealth arising from accidents involving unexploded ordnance these will be considered on the basis of the particular facts applicable to the claim. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The examination as well as subsequent reviews confirm that currently there are no strategic or operational reasons either to base additional Service units, or to increase training activities, in Tasmania. 
For reasons of operational training, general support and economy, battalions are located within the ambit of their particular Task Force base. These bases are currently adjacent to Sydney, Brisbane and Townsville. It is important that the fighting and support elements of a Task Force can be trained and deployed together, and without incurring heavy movement costs. Should a battalion be located in Tasmania, it would be at some considerable distance from the tactical air and other support forces needed to enable it to train effectively. Such support would have to be provided from the mainland. Therefore it is not intended to locate a battalion in asmania. To do so would involve substantial cost penalties with no countervailing benefits in terms of operational training and capability. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Six surveys have been carried out. All have been completed. 
(a) No private companies or individuals were commissioned for the surveys, which were carried out utilising departmental resources. 
(i) To assist in the study of the capability of Australian industry to meet Defence needs ( 1 975 ). 
To ascertain from the families of Army personnel their views on Community Services provided at Holsworthy (1976). 
To determine the basis of provision of living accommodation at Holsworthy (1978). 
To determine the basis for provision and design of future messes at Holsworthy ( 1978). 
v ) To determine the urgency for the construction of facilities at Holsworthy ( 1 978). 
To assist in planning for the re-location of the Army Apprentice School from Balcombe to Bonegilla (1978). 
No direct costs were involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the last ten years no damage has been caused to roads as a result of the Defence Force activity on the Holsworthy Field Firing Range, with the exception of the incident which occurred on 14 July 1978, when a 105mm shell impacted on the Heathcote Road. The damage caused was minor and repairs were effected by the Department of Main Roads road maintenance patrol, as a matter of routine. No separate costing is available. 
A special working party was established to examine safety procedures, following the incident on . 14 July 1978. As a result all procedures are now subject to triple checking. Further, in accordance with the requirements of the Defence Act, before live firing occurs, warning notices are published in the press, picquets are placed on roadways and at gates giving access to the range and red flags are flown. 
In addition to the safety measures outlined above (see (2)), an area of 1700 metres around the Atomic Energy Research Establishment is noted on all military maps as a restricted area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There has been no significant Defence use of Cloncurry Airport since World War II. It is not 'a strategic alternate airport for defence purposes', and is not likely to become so in the future. 
) No. Mount Isa is better. 
Mount Isa is used on occasions for Defence purposes. It would require development for sustained operations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Defence Force personnel will be participating in the Parmelia Yacht Race, from Plymouth to Fremantle, as part of the Commonwealth contribution to the Western Australian 150th Anniversary celebrations. Time permitting, they will also participate in the Fastnet Race (which is included in the Admirals Cup series) as a working-up exercise for the Parmelia Race. 
Yes. However, the Defence Force personnel comprise all ranks down to Army private, or equivalent. 

 Anaconda II is participating as a Defence Force entry in the Parmelia Race, and the personnel involved are undergoing an official Defence Force activity known as Adventure Training. It is customary for personnel on Adventure Training to contribute personally towards the cost of the activity, and in this case each member is to contribute $350, which will amount to a little over $ 10,000 collectively and none will receive overseas allowances. Details of the personnel involved are: 
Race crew: Captain M. Calder, RAN, 2nd Lieutenant C. D. J. Chidgey, Army, Lieutenant Commander G. R. Deacon, RAN, Private J. A. Fraser, Army, SubLieutenant D. J. Frew, RAN, Lieutenant Commander K. J. Heynatz, RAN, Captain R. K. Howarth, Army, 2nd Lieutenant P. G. Lewis, Army, Leading Aircraftsman G. I. Mills, RAAF, Petty Officer B. W. J. Nicholls, RAN, Lieutenant  Colonel K.  E. Northwood, Army, Able Seaman K. D. Patterson, RAN, Sergeant D. P. Ryan, Army,  Major P.  J. Spence, Army, Chief Petty Officer M. J. Thompson, RAN. 
Delivery crew: Lieutenant Commander G. Brice, RAN, Lieutenant Commander P. R. Cartwright, RAN, Warrant Officer, Class 2 D. V. de Heer, Army, Corporal S. Dembrowski, Army, Lieutenant  Colonel D.  R. Gillies, Army, Able Seaman K. A. Halstead, RAN, Sergeant W. J. Hunter, Army, Squadron Leader K. F. Johnson, RAAF, Chief Petty Officers. F. McMahon, RAN, Lieutenant J. B. Merton, RAN, Warrant Officer, Class 2 R. J. Partis, Army, Warrant Officer, Class 2 H. J. Richardson, Army,  Major A.  W. White, Army,  Major I.  Wishusen, Army. 
The race crew will fly to England by civil air, and return on the  Anaconda II.  The delivery crew will sail the  Anaconda II  to England and return to Australia by civil air. Service aircraft would be used instead, if available. 
Travel expenses will be met by the Commonwealth. 

 Anaconda His being sailed to the UK by the delivery crew. 
No. The Commonwealth negotiated an agreement with the owner for use of the  Anaconda II  by the Defence Force specifically to compete in the Parmelia Yacht Race. There were no direct hiring or leasing charges. 

 Anaconda II was refitted by the Navy to the extent necessary to meet race special regulations and safety specifications, at an estimated cost of $27,350. Additionally, the Commonwealth agreed to purchase sails and equipment at an estimated cost of $60,000. 

 Mr Josko Grubic of Adelaide. 
. For the information of honourable members I present the second report by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board, together with a companion report to the Board by the Australian Government Actuary, on the assets and liabilities of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund at 30 September 1972. 1 seek leave to make a short statment relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
In 1973 following a report from a joint select committee of the Parliament, legislation was introduced to establish the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme with effect from 1 October 1972. That scheme superseded the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme. Provision was made in the legislation for the assets of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund totalling over $160m at book value to be transferred to the Commonwealth. Under the new arrangements, the Commonwealth assumed responsibility for the payment of all future benefits to beneficiaries under the new and superseded schemes. An undertaking was given by the Government of the day to arrange an actuarial investigation of the fund, i.e., the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. Its purpose was to ascertain whether the assets transferred were more or less than was fair and reasonable to meet the fund liabilities assumed by the Commonwealth. 
The administration of the affairs of the superseded scheme is vested in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board. Its first report on the investigation which I tabled in the Parliament on 28 April 1976 dealt with DFRB pensioners at 30 September 1972. An amount in excess of $8m was distributed to eligible pensioners. The further report I have just tabled deals with contributors including first those transferred to the DFRDB scheme and second, those who contributed for portion of the period, 1 July 1964 to 30 September 1972, but with pensions falling due before 1 October 1972. The latter group participated in the 1976 distribution arrangements. 
The report reveals that the value of the relevant assets attributable to transferred contributors was not more than was fair and reasonable to meet the fund liabilities assumed in respect of them. There are therefore no surplus monies available for distribution. It deserves to be clearly understood that this conclusion has been reached by an actuarial investigation of the fund, a report by the Actuary and a consideration of that report by the DFRB board. These procedures are conducted on a completely independent basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Columns 2, 3 and 4 of the table below show respectively: 
the major capital equipment items subject to firm procurement orders since 1 January 1976; 
the firms with which the major orders were placed; and 
the project approval at the time of placing the order. It should be noted that the project approval is not the same as the price for the major equipment contract as it includes the cost of initial spares, training, capital works and other associated aspects. 
The feasibility of providing project cost estimates as at 1 January 1979 has been examined. As this is not a normal review procedure, it could only be done at the expense of an extremely large administrative effort by my Department. For this reason, column 5 of the table shows the current amount approved for the project and the price basis of the approval. In this regard it should be noted that whilst the relationship between commitment/expenditure and the current amount approved is under constant surveillance, variations are only sought as and when required. It should also be noted that amounts approved are based on price levels at about the time of approval and increases frequently reflect only price escalation and exchange rate fluctuations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Engineers and Technical Officers (Engineering). The equipment performs the control function in one of two closed loop vibration analysis systems. 
A different type of exciter controller now approaching the end of its service life. 
Denmark. 
There were no unsuccessful tenderers. The contract was based on a restricted tender. Commonality was sought with existing satisfactory equipment forming pan of the second of the two systems, in order to reduce spares holdings, documentation and calibration requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms of the agreement between the Government of Australia and the United States concerning arrangements for the establishment and operation of the joint defence facilities to which the Honourable Member refers do not encompass the matter of US servicemen undertaking civilian employment in their off duty hours. Neither does the Status of Forces Agreement between Australia and the United States (Treaty Series 1963, No. 10) encompass the subject. 
Warning Labels on Alcoholic Liquor (Question No. 3958) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To provide the information requested would require the examination of in excess of 260,000 individual files or posting advices in respect of present and former members of the Defence Force. I repeat the advice I gave to the honourable member. I am not prepared to order the very great administrative effort which such an inquiry would require. 
Grants-in-aid: Electorate of Sydney (Question No. 3983) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The guidelines allowing travel on special purpose aircraft by members of Parliament and others, as tabled in Parliament in March 1 973, are currently under review. 
The Government expects to make a decision shortly on what revisions, if any, should be made to the guidelines. 
A special purpose aircraft conveying the Minister for Transport to Darwin via Alice Springs landed at Woomera, SA, on 24 May 1979 to enable the Minister to visit Coober Pedy, SA, and the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. Arrangements for this visit, subsequently cancelled because of adverse weather conditions, did not involve a special purpose aircraft. 
Not applicable. 
The passengers on board the aircraft which landed at Woomera en route to Alice Springs and Darwin qualified within the guidelines laid down. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) Details of flights of aircraft of the RAAF No. 34 Squadron are presented regularly to the Parliament by the Minister for Defence. The details normally tabled include each flight made by the Governor-General, the names of persons accompanying him, and the type of aircraft used. 
The Governor-General is not required to inform me of the purpose of the flights for which he uses RAAF No. 34 Squadron aircraft. 
I am not prepared to authorise the expenditure of time and effort which would be required to obtain the information requested in parts (3) and (4) of the honourable member's question, other than that already provided in the tabled details of flights. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1976-77-18; 1977-78-18; 1978-79-10. 
) Details sought are set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) No date has been set for the withdrawal of RAAF fighter squadrons from Malaysia. The deployment is provided for in an Exchange of Notes with Malaysia on 1 December 1971 (Australian Treaty Series 1971, No. 21). Paragraph 1 ( 1 )c of the note states, inter alia, that two squadrons of fighter aircraft may continue to be stationed at Butterworth 'so long as it is mutually agreed '. The matter is, of course, reviewed periodically. 
Report on Oil Spills  (Question No. 4170) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A crane is examined by qualified officers annually. 
The tables summarise the number of examinations per year actually conducted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The RAAF identification numbers of the two B707 aircraft are A20-624 and A20-627. 
A20-627. 
As at June 1979 there is no B707 aircraft being fitted out by Qantas. A20-624 completed a sale block servicing (ie, a servicing/modification program provided for in the conditions of sale and purchase of the aircraft) by Qantas on 30 May and after flight testing was flown to RAAF Base Richmond on 4 June. A sale block servicing on A20-627 commences on 2 July 1979. 
Both aircraft are being modified during the sale block servicings to identical technical specifications. The internal configuration of each aircraft can be changed to suit the task required from time to time. 
No specific facilities are being provided in either aircraft for media personnel or media purposes. Normal first class or tourist class seating will be utilised, dependent on the total number of passengers required to be carried on a particular flight. There are no current plans to install communication facilities for the media. 
Nil. See (5). . 
The roles of both aircraft are interchangeable. No additional cost will be incurred in converting the aircraft from a troop carrying to a special purpose configuration and vice versa as the changeover will be carried out by RAAF personnel provided at RAAF Base Richmond for the maintenance support of the B707 aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No houses or flats are owned by the Department of Defence in the West Heidelberg area. The Services were however allocated 131 dwellings in the Heidelberg area by the Victorian Housing Commission pursuant to the provisions of the Commonwealth/States Housing Agreement 1956 and subsequent agreements. Defence funds were provided towards the capital cost. 
) Of the 131 dwellings a number has become surplus to Service requirements and twelve have been approved for return to the Victorian Housing Commission for use by civilians. A further eighteen dwellings are expected to be offered to the Commission very shortly. Of these, nine were vacant at 6 June 1979 and of the remaining 101 dwellings four were vacant at that time. 
The average length of time the dwellings stated in (2) as vacant have been unoccupied is approximately five months. 
Serving members of the Defence Force and their families. 
The normal period of occupancy would be during the member's period of posting in Melbourne area- usually two to three years. 
and (7) See (2) above. 
No. It would not be practicable to use Service married accommodation temporarily vacant for short periods as emergency accommodation. However, the Services' requirements for housing in the area is under continuing review and if other dwellings become surplus to Defence housing needs they will be offered for return to the Victorian Housing Commission. 
United States Defence Installations in Australia (Question No. 4243) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question 1253  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, pages 1658-63) in which I listed the number of defence related joint Australia/US defence facilities as five. The same answer was explicit that there are no 'American facilities' in Australia. 
The practice of successive Australian Governments concerning speculation and assertion about certain of the joint defence facilities (at Pine Gap and Nurrungar) should be well known to the honourable member. 
To refresh his memory may I refer him to my statement in the House of 2 June 1977 and to an answer on the same date to a question posed in another place. I do not intend to answer the questions as posed for substantially the same reasons as were stated by  Mr Whitlam  in a press conference on 3 April 1973, when he said: 
I will not answer questions in Parliament or here or anywhere on security matters. That is a procedure that has been followed by all my predecessors. It is a procedure which I shall follow too. Some of you have mentioned some organisations by name. I will not confirm or deny or correct any such names. The reason is obvious: by asking sufficient number of questions and then getting denials or confirmations or corrections people can find out about the security procedures about this country. I will not answer questions on these matters.' 
I do not understand what the honourable member means by 'all out war' signals, neither do my technical advisers, nor does the United States Navy whose advice has also been sought. The honourable member's reference to the Australian Liaison team at Harold E. Holt is also obscure. The naval communication station at Harold E. Holt is jointly manned by Royal Australian Navy and United States Navy personnel. Royal Australian Navy manning at the station is for specific operational and management purposes. It does not equate to a liaison team. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
No request has been made by the US Government for basing or home porting of US Navy vessels. 
As has been frequently declared in the past, the Government welcomes visits to Cockburn Sound by ships of friendly navies. 
Use has already been made of  HMAS Stirling on  two occasions by US nuclear powered warships (by USS Truxton in August 1978 and USS Tunny in April 1979). No other NPW visits to the base are at present under consideration. 
The general conditions of entry for visits to Australian pons by nuclear powered warships are laid down in pages 3 and 4 of the document  Environmental Considerations of Nuclear Powered Warships  (May 1976). These conditions include a provision that visits are for crew rest and recreation, and not for fuel handling or repairs to reactor plant necessitating breach of reactor containment. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
) to (3) Visits by US Navy ships to Western Australian pons between 1 974 and 7 June 1 979 are shown in Table I. 
and (5) US Navy ships excercising with Australian defence forces in the Indian Ocean, the dates of the exercises and the composition of forces involved are shown in Table II. 
Yes, the aircraft did put down at Kwajalein on its way back from the United States. The report which appeared in today's  Australian  is grossly inaccurate and I am very sorry - 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide is getting so cranky that I think he needs a grease and an oil change. What happened is that the automatic de-icing system in one engine of the aircraft failed. The pilot then turned to the manual backup de-icing system and his professional judgment was that the aircraft should put down. No mention was made of those facts in the article. I think a very great disservice has been done to the profession of journalism by what I would describe as a very mischievous report. 
The short answer to the question is yes. It would be my hope and expectation that I will be able to make a statement on defence expenditure, probably tomorrow if that meets with the convenience of the Leader of the House and the House itself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 approved an aircraft- 
a ) to convey the then Chief of the Air Staff (Air Marshal  Sir James  Rowland) accompanied by Lady Rowland and officers from the Department of Defence to Amberley, Queensland, for the opening of No. 3 Aircraft Depot hangar marking the completion of a major work undertaking; and 
to convey me, after I had performed the opening ceremony, to Canberra in time for the evening sitting of Parliament. 
The flight plan provided for the Chief of the Air Staff to be picked up at Richmond where he was meeting the Chief of Staff, Indonesian Air Force. However, because the Chief of the Air Staff was unavoidably detained at Richmond, the Mystere aircraft which was to pick him up was sent direct from Canberra to Amberley to pick me up. The members of the Chief of the Air Staff's party who were to travel to Richmond on the positioning flight travelled in the aircraft from Canberra to Amberley. 
$866.40. 
by leave- In March this year I foreshadowed increased defence expenditure in 1979-80. I outlined the directions given by the Government to the defence administration as to the priorities that should be observed. I briefly recapitulate what those priorities were: 
The growth in capital assets was to continue; 
More money was to be spent on maintenance spares and other stores; 
Restraints on service training activities were to be eased; 
Those stores that had been depleted were to be replenished; and 
Growth in manpower was to continue to be held down. 
At the time, I spoke in terms of real growth of not less than 2 per cent. My colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  last Tuesday informed the House of an allocation to the defence function of $2, 887m. This represents a real growth of about 2.6 per cent. It is the fourth consecutive year when the Government has provided for real growth. This morning the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  addressed a question to the Treasurer regarding the assessment of that 2.6 per cent. That was, in fact, based on a false premise. I would welcome an early opportunity, with officers of my Department, to explain to the honourable member why that is so. Given the overall budgetary context in which it occurs, this increase must be seen as a substantial one. We shall maintain a high level of investment in capital equipment and weapons systems. I shall be saying more later about a number of particular decisions that have been taken in this area. 
From a level of 6 per cent of defence expenditure of 1974-75, investment in capital items has increased in each of the intervening years. On a common standard of constant August 1978 prices, the figures are $166m in 1974-75; $2 18m in the next year; then $3 19m, then $342m, and $400m in the year just concluded- getting towards a threefold increase. I repeat that those figures are at constant prices. However for some time, in order to release funds for new capital equipments, certain constraints were applied to that part of the defence outlay which supports training activities. It will be appreciated that when the services are obliged to observe restraints, inevitably that obligation is met in the current year of activity. Capital equipment involves long lead times, so too does the construction of facilities involve substantial time. Commitments with respect to equipment and facilities must be met as they fall due. There will be a substantial increase in expenditure on maintenance stores and equipment repair items. The expenditure for this year will be some 19 per cent above last year. In general terms the position with respect to maintenance stores and equipment repair will be satisfactory. 
This country has invested considerable sums of money in defence facilities. These assets are extremely valuable. They are of immense operational significance. They enable a very high standard of operational effectiveness to be maintained. It will be appreciated that those facilities are to be found in many places throughout Australia. I am anxious that these assets should in no way be diminished. This year, expenditure on repair and maintenance of defence establishments will rise considerably above that of 1978-79. In parallel with this increased investment in the effectiveness and reliability of equipments in inventory- which will of course project forward into future years as increased deliveries come to hand- there will be an increased investment in human skill. Money is being allocated to enable more realistic training and exercising of the Defence Force. There will be greater expenditure on administrative support for these and other purposes, and on the movement of men and equipment. It is intended that there should be more opportunities for service personnel to undertake specialist training and promotion courses. More men will be sent overseas for training. This will apply particularly to personnel required to operate the guided missile frigates now being constructed in the United States. 
Once again direct manpower costs will be constrained by limiting numbers where we can. Manpower costs will continue to account for just over half the total defence expenditure. Civilian manpower will be reduced by a further 400. However to absorb new equipments entering service, to permit the setting up of the counterterrorist unit previously announced and to meet other commitments, there will be a growth of service manpower of 600. Increases will be for Navy 250, Army 100 and Air Force 250, to a total target of 70,861 regulars. There will be some additional expenditure to reflect the Government's decision to implement fully the recommendations of the Coldham Committee of Inquiry into Services Pay and Allowances, with the exception of a field allowance which is still under consideration. There will also be expenditure on some important facilities of which I might mention: 
A new Army school complex at Bonegilla, on which works will commence this year; 
A satellite communications facility at Watsonia, Victoria, which will be built to improve communications with our allies on intelligence matters; 
The new Royal Australian Air Force operational headquarters building at Glenbrook, New South Wales, on which work will continue this year; 
A workshop and refit building at Garden Island, New South Wales, primarily for the support of the guided missile frigates; 
New patrol boat bases, on which work will commence at Cairns and, subject to parliamentary processes, at Darwin. 
I turn to capital equipment. There are large financial implications for later Budgets in the decisions yet to be taken on major capital investments. There will be the new tactical fighters, the follow-on destroyers and the capabilities that could be needed when HMAS  Melbourne  is paid off. These will necessitate further increases in capital expenditure in future years. This year some $45 5 m are allocated under this heading, or 15.4 per cent of expenditure on the defence function. I point out that this provision is some 23 per cent higher than the level established in the 1978-79 Budget, although we did achieve a greater expenditure consistent with this Government's policy of maintaining expenditure on new capital items and weapons systems at a high level. Expenditure will go chiefly: 
On the three guided missile frigates being built in the United States; 
The new amphibious heavy lift ship, HMAS  Tobruk; 
The new Fremantle class patrol boats being built in Australia; 
The modernisation of the destroyer escorts at Williamstown; and 
On residual payments for items such as the Leopard tanks and the additional P3C maritime patrol aircraft. 
New acquisition decisions this year are relatively modest, so as to establish the potential for the very substantial initiatives of the coming years, to which I have already alluded. Commitments will be entered into on new decisions totalling some $129m. The comparable figure in 1978-79 was $ 103m. It has been decided to commit funds to the second phase of a program to ensure that the Mirage fighters remain capable through the 1980s. Some $43m will go into new short range missiles, gun ammunition, engine modifications and avionics updating for the Mirage. I should also mention briefly the Macchi advanced trainer aircraft refurbishment program. Planning is now well advanced. Long lead items have been ordered. The work will be undertaken at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation factory in Melbourne and Hawker De Havilland factories in Bankstown, New South Wales, and Guildford, Western Australia. The Macchi program is expected to commence in the middle of next year and extend through to 1984. A new mobile tactical air defence control and reporting system will be acquired to train our air defence fighter force in deployments around Australia. 
New communications systems will be ordered for the Navy's ships and related shore stations to give secure communication proof against interference. New high frequency radio antennas will be acquired for defence communications. Phase I of a new Discon strategic communications project has recently gone to tender and a decision on the type of system and the capability to be provided will be made in 1980. The new Discon network will provide substantially increased communications capability to the defence force. The Navy's training capability will be improved by a new airfield radar at Nowra, and by a simulator to train the tactical command crews of our later destroyers. Forging facilities for the production of heavy ammunition are to be improved. 
We have decided to provide the Oberon submarine with the facility to launch, while submerged, the formidable harpoon anti-shipping missile already able to be carried by the guided missile frigates and Orion patrol aircraft. Four survey motor launches will be built in Australia to accelerate charting of waters of defence and national importance in the Barrier Reef and north west areas. I now inform the House that, subject to satisfactory contractual arrangements being concluded by the departments of Defence and Administrative Services with French interests in respect of the supply of certain documentation, and with Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd, that Australian Shipyard will build, to a French design, the new fleet-underway replenishment ship required for the Royal Australian Navy. The contract will be worth nearly $70m expressed in November 1978 prices, and will require Vickers to deliver the 17,000 tonne ship in 1983. Vickers Cockatoo has been chosen because of the competitive price and delivery timescale offered by the company, and the benefits which local industry will derive from the Australian build. This contract will ensure that valuable shipbuilding expertise and repair skills are retained in Australia. Several hundred new jobs will be created at Vickers Cockatoo and other Australian firms associated with the supply of material and equipment to the shipbuilding industry. 
In addition to the direct involvement of Australian industry, offsets against the purchase of material and equipment from overseas are to be vigorously pursued by the shipbuilder. I might point out to the House that this will be the third major defence shipbuilding contract awarded to Australian firms in recent years. Other contracts were for the amphibious heavy lift ship, HMAS  Tobruk,  being built by Carrington Slipways of Newcastle, and the fourteen Fremantle class patrol boats being built by North Queensland Engineers and Agents of Cairns. There is a point on which I feel I should touch. It is a fact that the Australian Shipbuilding Industry has been plagued in the past with industrial problems. I am pleased therefore to inform the House that I recently received a delegation of ACTU officials who assured me of their full support in maintaining good industrial relations at Vickers Cockatoo, and in assisting the company to acquire the additional skilled workers for this task. 1 would like to thank the members of that delegation for their courtesy and very obvious sense of cooperation. I am grateful to them and I am sure that the country should be. 
A few technical details may interest those honourable members who follow these matters closely. The ship will be of similar design to the Durance class of the French Navy. Although it will be smaller than HMAS  Supply,  it will be far more versatile. It will be capable of refuelling and providing a wide range of food and other stores, munitions, fresh water and aviation fuel necessary to keep RAN ships and their embarked aircraft operating on the high seas. It will operate helicopters, giving it the capability of resupplying warships by the method known as vertical replenishment. Because of its versatility, the underway replenishment ship will significantly improve the Navy's ability to operate its combatant ships for long periods away from Australian ports. It will have a speed in excess of 19 knots. 
I inform the House that the processes leading to the selection pf a new aircraft for the Tactical Fighter Force are proceeding precisely in accordance with the Government's timetable. I emphatically reject claims by some desperately illinformed persons that there has been any delay in these processes. If the Government had responded to some of the critics and followed what is held out to be 'advice', then this country might well now be saddled with an aircraft that would not fulfil the role expected of it. The TFF project will be the most expensive contract this country has ever entered into. There are other matters of substance associated with the project. We are proposing to secure for this country an exceptionally high technology. The Government is determined that Australian industry will secure advantage from industry participation. Beyond these considerations there remains the fundamental one, namely, the defence interest of this country. The Government will not jeopardise that interest, nor will it put at risk the position of the Australian taxpayer and Australian industry. The Government will not in any way be influenced in its judgment by people not prepared to consider, and to consider honestly, the ramifications of this important project. 
Evaluation teams charged with the responsibility of examining operational and technical aspects, and the extent of Australian industry involvement for the four contending aircraft, have made their reports. These are being considered within my Department. Consistent with my information to the House in March of this year, recommendations will be brought forward for Government consideration later this year on further reduction of the numbers of contenders. Detailed and intensive negotiations will then proceed with a view to final selection of an aircraft and commitment to a contract as soon as practicable thereafter. Present indications are that this could responsibly be achieved by the latter half of 1980. 1 shall continue to keep the House informed on this important project. 
I now report briefly on the situation regarding the guided missile frigates. Three of these ships are on order. The first, HMAS  Adelaide,  is due for delivery to the Navy in September 1980. My Department has completed a comprehensive review of the tests and trials of the lead ship of this new class. This review by Australia was provided for in the agreement between the United States and ourselves under which the ships are being purchased. That agreement provides that Australia can withdraw from the program if the basic characteristics and performance requirements agreed to at the time Australia contracted to buy the ships have not been met. The review has concluded that the guided missile frigate will meet all essential design and performance criteria and will be well suited to the Navy's requirements. Trials of the USS  Oliver Hazard Perry  have confirmed that these will be fine ships with particularly good resistance to shock. 
I turn finally to the question of our seaborne aircraft capability. The Government will be seeking further information through funded studies by selected ship constructors on the capabilities and costs of particular aircraft carrier designs. I would like to make it quite clear that this step does not indicate any particular attitude of the Government towards acquisition of a carrier. The Government has not made a decision to replace the RAN aircraft carrier HMAS  Melbourne.  The additional information to be derived from the further studies is necessary to assist the Government in its judgments on whether a carrier should be acquired or not. Present indications are that the Government may be in a position to make a decision before the end of 1 980. 
My Department has examined 16 responses to my earlier invitation to designers and constructors to propose investigations on aircraft carrier designs. The particular investigations will now be confined to studies of platform designs which could be suitable to carry vertical and short take-off and landing aircraft and /or helicopters. 
Subject to the negotiation of suitable contracts, investigations will be carried out by: Empresa Nacional, Bazan, Spain with respect to the sea control ship currently under construction; Italcantieri of Monfalcone, Italy with respect to the Italian helicopter carrier  Garibaldi  and Litton-Ingalls of Pascagoula, United States of America with respect to a variant of the United States LPH class. Possible modifications to meet specific RAN requirements will be examined. 
Despite the need for our most careful consideration of our resources at this time the 
Government's views of the importance of defence are emphasised once again by its significant increases in the Defence Appropriation. It will be possible to both move ahead in our plans for increasing the efficiency of the Defence Force and to prepare for the greater program of capital acquisition that lies ahead of us. When the Government has examined the advice from the Defence Committee deriving from the recent strategic review and has considered its consequences for Australia, I propose to make a further defence statement. 
I think it deserves to be said that the unparliamentary display of a moment or so ago was not completely in honour of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The applause was for the fact that he finished. I would be altogether lacking in a sense of the occasion if I did not proceed at once to congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on the speech that he has delivered on behalf of the Opposition this evening. It will take a place in the history of the Parliament as one of the most exceptional speeches ever delivered by the leader of an Opposition and an aspiring Prime Minister. The speech is exceptional for the fact that it was a mixture of abuse, hector, legerdemain, hysteria and, to put it bluntly, plain nonsense. For some 50 minutes, the Leader of the Opposition held himself out as being the sturdy economic constructor. It is just as well that he was not in charge of the building of the Pyramids. I have never listened to a more disgraceful speech from the Leader of the Opposition. 
For some strange reason, I quite like the honourable member for Port Adelaide but I think it is high time somebody told him not to get his permanent waves done so tightly. 
It seems an extraordinary thing this evening that the centre piece of the Leader of the Opposition's complaint relates to promises. I wonder whether the honourable gentleman can sweep his mind back to the years 1972 to 1975. There was a virtual cobblepath of promises, not a graveyard. In his speech this evening, the honourable gentleman has held himself out in a great variety of roles. He has appeared as a selfappointed sexton. He is a mathematician, an historian, and an economist. Labor has its own splendid dignity. The Leader of the Opposition took a swipe at the Government and referred- I thought with a strange measure of erraticism- to what it did in the past. I remind the Leader of the Opposition that at one time he was a policeman. It is no wonder that there is a high rate of unsolved crime in Queensland. 
Ah, many people like the honourable member are grateful for my services. Whichever role the Leader of the Opposition sought to play this evening, he abandoned facts and treated them casually. He ignored reality. Above all, he ignored all sense of fairness. One could give scores of illustrations to support just that charge. I will take a couple. I take the case of the Leader of the Opposition's sneering at the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and saying that this is the fifth Budget during the term of two Treasurers. I remind the honourable gentleman that we can recall a Treasurer who did not get to the barrier. 
Then there was the extraordinary argument from the Leader of the Opposition when referring to tax indexation. He said that the Opposition strongly supports the principle of tax indexation. Cannot the honourable gentleman recall October 1975 when he was the Treasurer of this country. It was the Labor Government of that day which opposed tax indexation. Nevertheless, the Leader of the Opposition said that the Opposition supports the principle of tax indexation. I would say that it supports that principle in the same way as the hangman 's rope supports the victim. 
The honourable gentleman sneered at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the 
Treasurer for adverting with very legitimate reason to the difficulties which stemmed from our participation in the international community. He said that they were blaming the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Common Market. I would have thought that the observations that the right honourable member and the honourable gentleman have made from time to time were legitimate. I wonder what the Leader of the Opposition would say to the following observation: 
I know that it is now considered in some quarters to be mean-spirited, to be buck passing, for an Australian Minister to mention international economic problems or to make international comparisons or to explain any of our economic problems whatsoever in international terms. But those international problems remain a fact of life and, whether we like it or not, they affect our national life. 
That observation was made by the former Leader of the Labor Party, now the emeritus member for Werriwa, the honourable E. G. Whitlam. Does the Leader of the Opposition say of his former leader that he was grossly in error? I invite the honourable gentleman in a sense of fairness to look at the observations which were made by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. The Leader of the Opposition, revealing the sturdy energy policy of the Labor Party, adverted to what it would do to oil companies. I hope that the Australian taxpayer will recall the fact that it was a Labor Government that shut down every oil exploration effort in this country. The only display of drilling that we saw was a display of an artesian bore by the former Leader of the Opposition when he threw some water over a member of this House. 
The central feature of the Leader of the Opposition 's speech dealt with three pointsunemployment, inflation and taxation. They were very legitimate points. I offer no complaint about them. I will state the Government's policy with respect to two of these matters without any ambiguity whatsoever. 
-I hope that my honourable friend opposite will listen. I refer honourable members to the following words: 
On the economic front, inflation is this nation's most menacing enemy. We aim to curb it. Unless this aim is achieved, the nation's productive capacity will run down and job opportunities will diminish . . . We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
Is there any person in this House with two wits to rub together who would disagree with that sentiment? 
It is no wonder that my honourable friend is known as the Lone Ranger. Those sentiments are taken from the Budget Speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition when he was the Treasurer of this country in 1975 and had the responsibility of high office. He was beckoned inexorably towards embracing the great principles of office and to stating them. Because he was frustrated by those around him; he has our sympathy. Because he failed, he has our condemnation. 
Here it is and I will make some comparisons. In January 1973 there were 135,000 people unemployed. Two years later that figure has increased to 3 1 1 ,000. 
Government members- Shame. 
Not only that, I compare it with the situation today. From May 1978 to May 1979, civilian employment under this Government has increased by 64,000 and private employment by 48,000. Under the Labor Government we saw private employment fall by a massive 155,000. There is no Minister and no member on this side of the House who looks on unemployment as some dry, drab, statistical argument, but if the Leader of the Opposition invited a comparison this evening he is entitled to face up to it. On the charge of inflation, when his Government took office in 1972 the inflation rate was 4.5 per cent. In two years it had soared to 17.6 per cent. In 1975 the inflation rate was 14 per cent but in 1978 it fell to 7.9 per cent. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has been most forthcoming with these figures, unlike the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who is going to figure in the next serial. They have not been forthcoming. The other evening the Treasurer spoke with admirable frankness and any person inside or outside this House who listened to that speech will acknowledge that that was the case. The Treasurer said that there are problems to be faced and that the Government will continue to fight. What has the Leader of the Opposition done? The Leader of the Opposition has assailed the record of this Government. The record of this Government is infinitely better than the record of the Labor Government. We do not say for one moment that we are by any means satisfied. The Treasurer has spoken on behalf of the Government and said that the fight will go on. When the honourable the Leader of the Opposition accuses the Government of economic sinning, I recall the old injunction: Let he who is without sin cast the first stone. I would have thought that injunction would have been understood by the proprietor of a quarry. I accept the Leader of the Opposition's view that we are no longer living in that simple Keynesian world. The Government cannot go on spending. The records are there to instruct, to counsel and to caution. But what did the Leader of the Opposition say this evening? He said. 'We propose to increase the domestic deficit'. To what extent? We are not told. 
Make it $3,000m. Jack it up to $4,000m. Get some round figure. That is what the Leader of the Opposition said this evening. The simple, inescapable fact of our existence and the existence of every Western nation is this: Government profligacy leads to economic disturbance. We saw that under the Labor Government. As the Leader of the Opposition mentioned this evening, we saw the extraordinary increase in Commonwealth receipts. It took some 72 years for Commonwealth outlays to reach $ 10 billion. In three years the Labor Party had raised that to $22 billion. Some effort; some achievement; something to be proud of. If the honourable Leader of the Opposition has read the textbooks he has certainly failed to practice what they teach. I suppose it has to be said that he would be the only Treasurer to suffer the mortifying experience of after laying down, in what I would have thought were admirable terms, the relationship between inflation and unemployment, having it repudiated by one of his followers in this House. How many others who were silent share the views of the honourable gentleman who interjected? How many of those who sit on the front bench with the Leader of the Opposition share them? Look at his Government's outlays or expenditure. In its first year of office it went up by 20 per cent. The next year it was kicked up by 46 per cent. Compare that with the record of this Government. In its first year, 1976-77, expenditure was down to 10.4 per cent. In 1978-79 it was down to 8 per cent. The Treasurer again has been quite forthcoming and has said that we are by no means satisfied; the Government is determined to wrestle with this problem and to conquer the problem. 
Let me take another yardstick- the deficit as a proportion of the gross domestic product. The Leader of the Opposition is going to increase the deficit. He said that quite boldly and quite plainly, and I hope that every taxpayer and family in this country understand the consequences of raising the deficit. In his first year of office the deficit went up 5 per cent. In the 1978-79 year under this Government it went down to 3.4 per cent. For the 1979-80 year, the Treasurer said that it will be the lowest in six years. It is all very fine for honourable gentlemen opposite to say that this is no accomplishment to acknowledge. The simple fact of the matter is that the manner in which this economy is slowly, gradually, but nevertheless definitely edging back to stability - 
Opposition members- Ha, ha! 
Honourable members may laugh. I ask the honourable gentlemen opposite who sneer and laugh: What is going to be the effect of increasing the deficit? I say to the Leader of the Opposition: You are the Caxton of our times. Crank up the printing presses, debase the currency and weaken the poor; impoverish those who cannot fend for themselves. The Leader of the Opposition states great principles when he is in office, but when he suffers the frustration of being in Opposition and sees the chance to exploit an opportunity, those great principles are discarded. 
One of the great complaints of the Leader of the Opposition this evening referred to taxation. I have been astonished to hear some of the argument- that is to dignify it- that has been raised in recent days in relation to taxation. I want to put these simple points to the House. On 1 December income tax will go down by 2.57 per cent. Does anybody contest that? No. I am delighted to hear that nobody contests it. The silence I thought was quite clear on that point. I want to refer my old friend the member for Port Adelaide to his halcyon days when he was shearing. If he had to go back to shearing today and was shearing wethers at the rate of 130 a day - 
I am talking about shearing them properly. The honourable member's weekly earnings running up to the week before St Andrew's day, 30 November, would be $443. On that he would pay $ 1 48 tax. If he moved from that shed to the next one and started work on Monday, 3 December, and worked as strenuously as ever and shore the same number of sheep, he would pay $ 138 tax; that is, $ 10 less. Does the honourable gentleman have difficulty understanding that? If he does then all I can say is that I feel very, very sorry for him. If he smartened himself up and increased the rate from 130 to 140 sheep a day he would find that something was quite different. 
I would like to say a word or two about that splendid fraternal gathering in Adelaide rejoicing in the name of the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference where the spirit of goodwill was all over the place-a bit here and a bit there. I only hope that people will understand the consequences and resolutions of that Conference. It would not be enough to say that it was a case of Christian killeth Christian in a narrow dusty room. The fact of the matter is that it was more likely a matter of the Balkan states of old. They declared war on themselves but they also declared war on the Australian people. We heard something this evening from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  He told us what the Labor Party proposes to do- the socialist strategy- the interventionist role by government, prices and incomes policy- with the understanding and co-operation of the trade union movement. I get  Mr Bob  Hawke on that. I only hopethis is the last thing I say- that the people of Australia will understand the consequences of the Adelaide Conference resolutions of the Labor Party. Let me say on behalf of the Government that this Government is determined to win the fight against inflation. It is a fight that we will not give up. It is a fight that we will continue and it is a fight in which we will never say that we are finished. We will fight, we will fight and we will fight again. 
For the information of honourable members I present the details of special flights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1 January 1979 to 30 June 1979. Copies of this report are available from the Table Office. 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3 172 (weekly  Hansard,  7 June 1979, page 3 143). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Studies are continuing in respect of some areas following initial examination and details of likely further areas are being sought from the New South Wales Depanment of Lands. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) In my speech of 24 October 1978 I did not refer to specific studies on follow-on destroyers. The honourable member will appreciate that the acquisition of all major capital items of Defence equipment is preceded by examinations conducted in various ways and at various levels both within the bidding Service and within the Depanment at large. 
In the case of such important force structure elements as the destroyer, such studies are continuous over a very long term. Studies of follow-on ships beyond the River Class DEs began in the early 1 970s. 
Last year, my Depanment formed a Defence Naval Destroyer Group (DNDG) to draw together more recent work and to consider specifically matters influencing the characteristics of new construction destroyers. 
For the reasons set out, there is unlikely to be any clear completion date of destroyer related studies. The work on destroyers interacts closely with other work in train on seaborne air capabilities. 
) The studies are directed by the DNDG which includes senior naval and civilian officers with responsibilities in the force structure area. 
Defence Central and Navy have the central interest in the immediate development of the studies, and there is liaison with Army and Air Force Offices. No outside Departments are yet involved. 
Contrary to the honourable member's understanding, there have as yet been no firm decisions regarding the choice of ship for this program. My statement of 29 March last simply noted that planning envisaged local construction, hopefully based on a suitable developed design. 
The honourable member may rest assured that 1 will keep Parliament informed of developments in this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes- members of the Defence Forces who participate in exercises of a non-defence nature with official approval and/or funding are covered against death or injury, under the provisions of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971, the Repatriation Act 1920 and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1 973 provided that, in the case of the Compensation and Repatriation Acts, each exercise of this nature is individually approved and the participants are certified as being on duty during the event. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)Yes. 
Loans of fuel were made at Cairns on three occasions during the period, as follows: 
140 tonnes of automotive distillate to the Brisbane Port Authority dredger  Sir Thomas  Hiley  on 1 August 1979. 
1,792 tonnes of automotive distillate to Mobil Oil Company on 8 August 1979. (c)500 tonnes of automotive distillate to Golden Fleece Oil Company on 21 August 1979. 
In case (a) approval was given by the appropriate departmental authority, in cases (b) and (c) I approved the loan. In each of these three instances the conditions were: fuel to be replaced in kind, replacement fuel to meet Navy specification, borrower to meet all out of pocket expenses incurred by Navy in connection with the loan, borrower to indemnify the Commonwealth against any loss, damage or claim arising out of the loan, in each case replacement to be effected by a negotiated date. 
These conditions were embodied in a signed Form of Indemnity. 
In addition, during the period 28 May to 1 August 1979, Golden Fleece Pty Ltd inadvertently sold, without the prior approval of Navy, 3,200 tonnes of automotive distillate which they were holding on behalf of Navy, under a temporary storage arrangement pending the repair of a Navy fuel tank. The company arranged replacement of this fuel from a cargo on  MV Leonard  on 1 August 1 979. 
Yes. Requests are handled on a case by case basis but the underlying principles are that the fuel is required to meet an essential community need; it can be spared without detriment to short term defence requirements and alternative supplies from commercial sources are not available to the borrower. 
In case (a) above- The Brisbane Port Authority. 
In case (b) above-  Mr N.  Lee, Minister for Industry and Administrative Services, Queensland. 
In case (c) above- Golden Fleece Oil Company. 
Yes, under normal circumstances oil companies are free to determine the sequence of delivery and allocation of stocks to all their customers including defence installations. 
I am not aware how these false and mischievous claims arose nor am I able to state whether any supply contractor was responsible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fuel oil stocks (Dieso plus Furnace Fuel Oil) at 30 June 1979 were slightly below the 1 July 1978 opening stock level for the financial year 1 978-79. 
The combined closing stock level was 10,255 tonnes below the opening level. The average monthly variation in this level due to normal imbalances between deliveries and offtakes was 7,000 tonnes. 
) Six hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars. 
Yes. The combined stocks of Dieso and Furnace Fuel Oil at 30 June 1980 are planned to be about 46,200 tonnes above the 30 June 1979 figure. The cost of this increment, at 30 June 1979 prices is $6.4m. 

Anaconda II' (Question No. 4544) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A broad breakdown of the work carried out by the RAN on  Anaconda II  to prepare it for the Parmelia Race is given hereunder 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I think it ought to be observed in the Auditor-General's references to the patrol frigate program that he makes no criticism of any maladministration and he offers no criticism of any blemish of financial management or conduct. As I read that gentleman's reference to the patrol frigate program, he is concerned with the fact that the Auditor-General or one of his officers cannot conduct an audit within the United States of America. I should point out that the ships are being purchased pursuant to what is described as the foreign military sales program of the United States. That program is constantly subject to scrutiny by United States AuditorGeneral officers and to other processes of scrutiny peculiar to the United States which we do not have in Australia. I inform the House that the building and the cost of the ships are, as a consequence, constantly subject to American oversight and superintendence. I point out to the House that in the very beginning of the project officers of the Royal Australian Navy were taken into the shipbuilding yards of the United States of America. They report regularly to Australian authorities. 
The last observation I would make is this: I find it a breathtaking notion that the AuditorGeneral of this country should be put in a position where he could place an officer of his department within the department of a foreign state. This seems to me to take the principle of extra-territorial power to a hitherto undisclosed end. I wonder how this country would feel, for example, if the United Kingdom or Brazil wished to put an auditor into the departments of this country in order to oversee the Ikara project. I can assure the House that there is very vigorous observation of the entire project in the United States of America, and, as will meet the convenience of the House, in the near future I will disclose what is the latest position regarding the cost of those ships. 
My attention was drawn to a statement made by a member of the Western Australian Government addressing some learned society in Perth. He expressed a view with which the Government and I disagree. It is no disrespect to that honourable gentleman when I express the view that I regret that he has made such a harsh and so inaccurate an assessment. I recall that it was this Government that commissioned HMAS  Stirling  18 to 20 months ago after successive governments for 60-odd years had dithered over the project. It was this Government which upgraded Learmonth field, and it was this Government which acquired the Yampi training ground. The proposed new patrol boat base at Darwin has, I believe, already been considered by the Public Works Committee, and further consideration is being given to the establishment of another patrol boat base between Darwin and HMAS  Stirling.  I would observe to my honourable friend that in the course of the last 18 months to two years there have been no fewer than eight or nine substantial exercises in the Western Australian region. Finally may I say that possibly no other country in the world has such a clear need for mobility in establishing its defence structure and infrastructure. The Government- I take all partisanship out of this- and the country are attending to that in a very proper fashion. It is some 40 years ago, almost to the day, when the Maginot Line mentality was shown to be so weak and frail. I am sorry that someone is seeking to revive it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Administrative Service's reply to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 972). 
The lead ship HMAS  Fremantle,  which is being constructed in the United Kingdom by Brooke Marine Ltd, was due to enter Australian waters towards the end of this year. I regret to inform the honourable gentleman and the House that she will not now arrive in Australian waters until February next year. I shall explain briefly to the House the reason for that. Trials have indicated that the lead ship is overweight by approximately 20 tonnes. I make it clear also that the Australian Government, the Australian taxpayer, is completely protected by way of an indemnity. The honourable gentleman will appreciate that North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd, which is building the follow-on boats in Cairns in north Queensland, is doing so following the specifications prepared by Brooke Marine. As a consequence of that, boats 2, 3 and possibly 4 may be overweight. 
I can assure the honourable gentleman and the House that trials are continuing to see in what manner and form the overweight can be reduced. Present trials indicate that the overweight has been caused by oversized hull plating, hull fitting and some equipment. I am informed on technical and professional advice that there are good grounds for optimism that the overweight problem will be substantially reduced in relation to the boats to which I have adverted. As to the other boats which will follow on, there will be no problem in existence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department adopts a multi-disciplinary approach to this subject, drawing as necessary upon officers with responsibilities in military, scientific, legal and policy areas of the Department. At the present time a scientist and an Army officer from the Department are working full time as members of the Australian delegation to the meeting of a United Nations conference on the use of certain conventional weapons in Geneva. 
) The Department endows a Research Fellowship at the Strategic and Defence Study Centre, Australian National University, at a cost of some $30,000 per annum. Aspects of disarmament, along with many other defence related matters, may be studied under this Fellowship. 
Last week I gave the House information concerning the  Fremantle  class patrol boat and I pointed out to the House that the lead ship is overweight. My attention has been drawn to what, on any reasonable construction, is an ambiguity in my answer. The ambiguity is this: I have said that the Commonwealth is completely indemnified. That was the advice tendered to me with respect to the lead ship. In my humble opinion, I agree with that advice. The position is less clear with respect to the follow-on craft. I wish to inform the House that I have this day written to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  asking him for his opinion of the position. When I have received from the AttorneyGeneral his opinion I will convey the terms of it to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 20 February the Government announced that it was willing to send an Army engineers unit to Namibia as a contribution to the United Nations Transitional Assistance Group ( UNTAG) proposed for that country. 
The UN has not yet issued a formal request for Australian or any other contributions. This is because South Africa has yet to accept the plan sponsored by the Western Five (Canada, France, Germany, UK and US) for a Namibian independence settlement under UN auspices. Discussions between the parties concerned are still continuing following the recent visit to South Africa by the special envoy for the Five,  Sir James  Murray. 
For a more detailed exposition of the principal obstacles to agreement I refer the honourable member to the reply given in another place by my colleague, the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Senate, to a question without notice on 2 1 August 1 979. 
Code of Practice on Radiation (Question No. 4601) 
A few vulgar and meretricious phrases from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  will not rescue his case. I say to the honourable gentleman, that if ever he were a student of history, his labours were in vain. This is a very great pity, because the honourable gentleman, apart from being a member of this House, is a lawyer. I would have thought that the whole of the discipline of the law was directed towards the meticulous observance of justice in its clear sense. The honourable gentleman, despite your quiet interrupting,  Mr Speaker,  continued to assert what he described as a factual case. He spoke about facts. He did not even bother to distinguish them from findings. He did not even bother to tell the House the basis upon which the alleged facts had been drawn. I wonder whether my friend would not take offence if I remind him of the great Bushell case three centuries ago. Some of us may sneer at the past, but we are just fleeting visitors in this world and the great lessons of history are there. It should be our effort to see that we are tutored by them and that we do not have to go back and fight for the right for those rights to prevail. Two Quakers, was it not, in 1671, William Mead and Penn, who spoke to a gathering in London and were charged with a tumultuous and unlawful assembly. The judge directed the jury on the facts to find the accused guilty. The members of the jury refused and he fined them. They refused to change their attitude and they brought the great writ of habeas corpus. It was held that a judge sits to advise on the law; the jury determines the facts. From that day henceforth no judge would ever direct a jury as to what the facts should be. 
Yet here is a case today where the honourable member for Melboure Ports finds facts on a report which I will later describe as a thoroughgoing disgrace to inquiry. No, you do not level a charge against the Prime Minister of this country. Do not think for a moment that the right honourable member for New England is on trial. We are on trial and, yes, the fourth estate is on trial. Every newspaper editor in this country is on trial, because one must remember the great occasions in the past when men and women fought for great rights. Now, what is the case? I have complained about this miserable proceeding in the past. I will continue to complain about it. I believe that a very great disservice has been done and is being done to our history. This proceeding which the honourable gentleman for Melbourne Ports described to us this afternoon as a forum, a body which has determined the facts, has determined nothing of the sort. It has made findings, the quality of which I look forward to examining in a few moments time. Two years ago this proceeding started in camera. Has this country lost its capacity to get indignant about a proceeding in camera when a man's rights and his reputation can be put at risk? This is no mean, petty consideration. It is a great profound consideration. Any person who has any feel for history and fairness and who has any capacity to identify with justice, should feel outraged that this proceeding has gone on. Yet the honourable gentleman who just sat down, what did he say to us? He said: 'Ah, the facts as found'. He said that allegations were made and that therefore the Prime Minister should have stood down my honourable friend, the right honourable member for New England. But on the basis of what? On the basis of allegations made before an in camera proceeding? I would have thought that if that body had any character or any capacity for courage the person who presided over it would have said: 'Oh, no. I have a heavy preference for the inquiry to be in public'. We do not know what went on before that inquiry. Not one member of the fourth estate knows what went on before that inquiry, yet bit by bit, dribble by dribble, there came from that inquiry what purported to be evidence. We did not know the status of that evidence. We did not know if it had been crossexamined out of existence. We did not know whether the person who gave the evidence had been held up to be a raging fool or to be a person with such a sense of hatred of the right honourable member for New England that he was incapable of giving evidence impartially and honestly. 
I have not read one word from any editorial writer complaining about that disgraceful proceeding which was in camera, that shabby, clandestine-like proceeding held behind locked doors. Some rough words have been said about the assessment made by the man who presided over the proceedings. I would have thought that in all conscience what had been said about him bordered on the generous side. The person who presided over the proceedings too is a lawyer. I say to my honourable friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  without any hostility from one to the other that surely we have not forgotten the great principles of natural justice? Let me take them as they apply to  Mr Finnane  and let me leave it to the judgment of the House and the country as to whether the points are well founded. The charge was made against  Mr Finnane  that he was biased. Very properly the Leader of the Opposition said: 'Well, does that mean to say that if you appeared before the Chief Justice of Australia who sat in this House as a Liberal member and Minister, you would complain about that?' It is a fair debating point at first blush but I understand that  Mr Finnane  is a current member of the Australian Labor Party. 
I would not have the slightest hesitation in appearing before  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Murphy, in any jurisdiction, but I say that if  Mr Justice 
Murphy was presiding over a court in which I appeared and it was known to me that he was a card-carrying member of the Australian Labor Party, I would object to the jurisdiction and I would object to his presence. This is as fundamental a point as you can find. I ask my honourable friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who has appeared in the courts, whether a man is biased by dint of association or stated attitude, can sit in judgment and can pose as one who is impartial. That is the first count upon which I denounce  Mr Finnane.  There is a more grievous count to come.  Mr Finnane  said to the honourable member for New England: 'Before I make any finding that is harsh, I will hear you'. I would have thought that that was a blazing display of condescension. It is not a matter of saying 'I will hear you'. He was duty bound to hear him. This is not some principle that has been whistled up from a few years ago, from the sixteenth or seventeenth century. This is a principle that has been known to mankind since mankind appeared. This principle has been found in the history of the literature of the early Greeks. It is embodied in the  Germanicus  in Seneca's  Medea  and it was unknown to  Mr Finnane.  Ah, yes, Rhadamanthus the cruel judge of Hell, never observed the hear the other side rule, the audi alterem partem rule; neither did  Mr Finnane.  I would have thought that an Attorney-General, conscious of those two points, not mere limitations but substantial defects in the manner in which  Mr Finnane  had proceeded, would have said of that report: 'No, I will not allow that report to sully the table, the Parliament of New South Wales'. 
The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  in a forthright parliamentary speech before lunch said that the man will find it impossible to get a fair trial.  Mr Finnane  has despised two of the great principles of natural justice, and nobody seems to care. I say to my honourable friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, again in no spirit of hostility, that surely we are entitled to be indignant about that. Let me take one of the findings of  Mr Finnane.  I would like to take the lot of the findings, not facts but the findings. He has found that the honourable member for New England forged a signature. That is his finding but it is not a fact. I want to examine the finding. 
Oh, yes he did, very much so. Two handwriting expert witnesses were summoned before that tribunal- so-called. Both of the handwriting experts have said of one or several of the signatures that they were forgeries. 
Neither expert witness was prepared to say: Yes, and furthermore that is the writing of the right honourable member for New England'. What are  Mr Finnane  's qualifications in the field of experts on handwriting?  Mr Finnane  brushed to one side the findings of the two handwriting expert witnesses and said: 'No, never mind. I know more about this than you.' He alleged that that writing belonged to the honourable member for New England. Can I remind the honourable member for Melbourne Ports again that the jury is the judge of the facts?  Mr Finnane  says: 'No, I will determine what is right and what is proper here'. 
Would any honourable member opposite, charged before a court or a body which could substantially alter his status and move his reputation- indeed some may say that it would put his reputation in infinite peril- like his reputation and his name to be handled in such a fashion? I would have thought that the natural instinct for indignation when unfairness came into light would say no. Surely one finds a sense of revulsion with this, but this is what this report has done. Not one word of that report can be admitted in evidence against the right honourable member for New England in a trial. The whole of that report is tendered against him in his public and private life. What an offence to fairness. Has this Parliament lost its capacity to identify fairness? I am told that twenty-five copies of the report have been circulated. Why were those copies circulated? I would have thought that no report would be tabled in the Parliament unless copies of it had been printed and were ready for sale. Every person with a proper public interest- and there would be many hundreds of thousands of people in this country who would fit that description, not merely 25 selected papers and not merely the Attorney-General and not merely those who sit in the Parliament of New South Wales- could have had a look at it. 
I do not complain about the rancorous rapture of some of my honourable friends opposite at the distress of my right honourable friend from New England. That is legitimate enough, I suppose, in the clash, clang and fury of political contest. My complaint is not about that. My complaint is that for two years that proceeding has gone on in that tawdry, miserable and contemptible way and now a man's position and his reputation have been put in jeopardy. We are beckoned here today not merely to adjudicate on the rights or wrongs, whether real or imaginary, of my right honourable friend the Prime Minister. We are beckoned today to remember our history and to try to avoid that; we must not re-live it. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that I have accepted the advice of my Department to terminate the Turana target aircraft project. I gave appropriate direction to the Department four weeks ago but I have delayed informing the House prior to the tabling of the Auditor-General 's report. 
Turana is a small radio-controlled jet aircraft similar in appearance to the Ikara antisubmarine missile. It was developed out of the successful Ikara project, with the objective of providing the Royal Australian Navy with a ship's gunnery and missile target. One particular requirement which was sought was the simulation of sea-skimming missiles. It was envisaged that, carried aboard Ikara fitted vessels and, as a consequence, compatible with the Ikara system, Turana would give RAN ships an independent capability to use target aircraft. 
The work of Turana was assigned to the Government Aircraft Factory at Fisherman's Bend, Victoria. That factory had produced remarkable results with the Jindivik and Ikara projects. Work on Turana commenced in 1969. The original concept was for 41 aircraft to be introduced into service. Flight trials were held in 1971. They were encouraging. The risks associated with further development appeared acceptable. They were accepted. An initial order for 12 aircraft was placed in March 1971. Further trials commenced in 1972. Since then the project has run into a series of research and developmental difficulties. The difficulties, while profound, were not completely daunting. Having regard to the encouragement which earlier trails had offered, the judgment was that research and experiments should continue. 
In 1 975 there was a review of the project. It led to a modification of some of the specifications. A re-design phase took place over the period 1976 to 1978. In November 1978, a further series of trials was conducted. Professional judgment was that, without substantial further investment, the level of reliability required of an operational target aircraft such as Turana could not be achieved. I had a series of consultations with officers involved in the project. I looked closely at the prospects and the likely orders of cost. It was with regret that I decided I could see no alternative but to accept the advice that the project should not be taken to a further stage. 
I do not disguise my disappointment. However, I am bound to say all of us should understand that when you are involved in work which is in the forefront of technology you must be prepared to take risks. There never has been- I doubt that there ever will be- assurance of success available in carrying out experiments with high technology. Failure is always in prospect. It deserves to be said that risks on the same scale were also carried in the highly successful Jindivik and Ikara projects. 
Hindsight is the strongest of all sight. It is very easy to make harsh judgments of the past. Our successes in the past may have encouraged greater confidence in the Turana project than was justified. For my part, I do not believe that past decisions about Turana were wrong. Those decisions had to be made. Comparable decisions will continue to be made. They are an absolutely indispensable feature of defence science activity. 
My predecessor in 1975- that is, the honourable Bill Morrison- was faced with the results of a technical review which, to put it mildly, were not encouraging. He had the courage to direct that the project was not to be abandoned at that time. The RAN's gunnery practice requirements will continue to be met with targets towed by aircraft and with Jindiviks. The requirement for a fast, manoeuvrable sea skimming target, organic to RAN vessels, cannot be met at this stage. May I say that no navy is yet in a position to meet this requirement- a fact which lends point to my earlier remark about Australian work at the forefront of technology where frustrations must inevitably occur from time to time. 
As with all such work, the non-achievement of the immediate, specific objective is not the end of the story. Without the Turana endeavour, Australia's impressive expertise in the field of remote-controlled aircraft would have withered. Instead it has been maintained, especially in the areas of flight vehicle control, mathematical modelling of guided weapons and target aircraft, and methodology for controlling the thrust vectors of rocket motors and telemetry. Such knowledge is of direct relevance and benefit to the latest Jindivik development- the Mark IV, which we are jointly progressing with the United Kingdom- and to the recently announced trainer aircraft study. There are also other projects emerging where the expertise amassed out of Turana will be taken further forward. I can make mention at this time of Turana 's outstanding flight control system, and also its miss-distance indication systems. Both will have direct application in new projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
HMAS  Melbourne  commissioned at Barrow-in-Furness, England, on Friday 28 October 19SS under the command of Captain G.G.O. Gatacre, D.S.O., D.S.C. and Bar RAN. 
1 ) and (2 ) The information required is contained in the following tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is certainly my intention to proceed with proposals for uniform disciplinary legislation for the three Services. 
and (3) No proposals relating to the uniform disciplinary legislation have yet been submitted to Government. It may be of assistance to the honourable member if I outline for him the recent history of this matter. 
A report by a Departmental working party established to consider uniform disciplinary legislation for the three services was presented to the then Minister for Defence in December 1973. 
On 2 April 1974 the working party's report was tabled in the Parliament by the Minister for Defence. This report contained a draft Defence (Discipline and Justice) Bill, prepared by the working party. 
When tabling the report the Minister stated that it had not been considered by the Government; that he and the Attorney-General had some reservations on the treatment given by the working party to some of the issues raised in the report; and that the report was being tabled to enable interested persons to study the draft provisions and submit any comments they wished to make. 
The working party later considered the matters raised by the Ministers together with numerous other comments received, particularly from members of the Defence Force. It submitted a further report in January 1 975 to the then Minister for Defence. 
The present position in this matter is still as indicated in my answer to Question No. 3139 asked by the honourable member on 20 February 1979 in  Hansard  of 7 March 1979 at page 758. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The group rent scheme was introduced in April 1976 with a rent scale for six housing groups ranging from $15.00 to $61.00 per fortnight. The average rent derived as a simple arithmetical average based on the composition of the groups was $38.28 per fortnight. 
The rates were increased in June 1977 and a seventh group introduced. The scale of rates then ranged from $19.00 to $88.00 per fortnight with an average of $53.50 per fortnight. This was an increase of 39.75 percent. 
The rents were again increased in July 1978 to the present range of $20.00 to $96.00 per fortnight. The average increased to $59. 1 2 a rise of 1 0.5 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
3 ) ( a) Forty-four flats and ( b ) twenty-one houses. 
Thirty-nine of the forty-four flats have been vacant for longer than one month during the past two years. The details, shown in whole months, are contained in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. It is proposed, as indicated in the Preamble to the Report, to continue research, physical noise measurements and ultimately to conduct social studies with a view to providing recommendations to the range managers on ways to reduce the level of noise annoyance to nearby civil communities while at the same time meeting training requirements. 
) Not yet. See ( 1 ) above. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to rationalise in a beneficial way the provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits and Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Acts relating to Class C invalidity retirees from the Defence Force. Both Acts incorporate a three-tiered invalidity structure broadly reflecting the extent to which a retiree is handicapped by his retiring disabilities in gaining and maintaining civil employment. Invalidity classification on retirement and subsequent reclassification procedures are based on an assessed percentage of incapacity in relation to civil employment. An assessment of 60 per cent or more attracts a Class A pension; 30 to 59 per cent a Class B pension; and less than 30 per cent a Class C benefit which, depending on the member's length of service, may comprise either a lump sum payment or a pension. 
As the DFRDB Act stands at present a Class A or B pensioner reclassified C who loses his pension status is ineligible for further reclassification even though a subsequent reduction in his capacity for civil employment may occur through deterioration in the disabilities he had on retirement. Clause10 of the Bill seeks to rectify this anomaly by opening the way for further reclassification where appropriate. A minor amendment to the DFRB Act, effected by clause 4, makes it clear that similar arrangements are to apply in respect to comparable DFRB invalidity retirees. Invalidity retirees with 20 or more years effective service who are initially classified C on retirement receive a pension in lieu of the normal lump sum benefit. In essence they receive pension for their long service rather than disablement which, because it attracts only a C classification, is invariably of a minor nature. The view has long been held that as they receive their pensions calculated on a length of service basis they should be permitted access to the commutation provisions in the same way as normal age retirement pensioners. 
Clause 9 of the Bill provides that access; but for future initial Class C invalidity pensioners only. In practical terms they are to be treated as normal age retirement pensioners for commutation and various other purposes specified in the legislation, including the calculation of residual pension, reversionary benefits and annual pension increases. Obviously enough, there can be no question of any subsequent invalidity reclassification in their case. I should explain that there are very sound practical reasons for not extending the commutation option to existing initially classified Class C pensioners. They devolve from the effects of annual pension adjustments. Retrospective commutation opportunity must carry with it retrospective decrease in pension. And the effects would be most severe on those who chose not to commute. Only part of their pensions would be increased in the future. 
In summary, the Bill reflects initiatives favoured by members of the Defence Force which are consistent with the basic benefits philosophy of the DFRDB Scheme. The amendments proposed do not, in any way, take away or reduce the rights of existing invalidity pensioners. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
My colleague the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has ministerial obligations and I present this Bill on his behalf. I state that to avoid the possibility of rumour taking on some firmer form. 
In July 1977 the Government decided there should be an independent inquiry into the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission's operations and capital works program. The inquiry was carried out jointly by  Mr J.  B. Reid,  Chairman  of James Hardie Asbestos Ltd and a director of Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, and  Sir Gustav  Nossal, C.B.E., Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, and Professor of Medical Biology at the University of Melbourne. The report of the inquiry was tabled in this House in May 1978. The Bill now before the House reflects the Government's general acceptance of the report's recommendations. It is proposed that the amendments will come into effect on 1 July 1 980. 
The Bill contains a number of amendments to the present Act which were recommended by the inquiry. The principal amendments will have the effect of, firstly, expanding CSL's role to enable it to produce non- biological, as well as biological, pharmaceutical products; secondly, clearly distinguishing CSL's commercial activities from the national interest activities, that is those carried out at the direction of the Minister, with the Commonwealth meeting the cost of these national interest functions; thirdly, allowing an increase in the number of commissioners; and fourthly, making a number of machinery amendments to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the authority. I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 10 of the Bill which sets out the new functions of the Commission. A major change in the Commission's functions is the removal of the restriction that the Commission may produce, or undertake research into, only biological products. 
The Reid-Nossal report recommends the removal of the biological restriction for a number of reasons. They include the lack of scientific precision in classification of products as either biological or non-biological. This is due to recent major advances in molecular biology permitting the production of some biological products by non-biological means. The production of hormones is an example of this process. In addition, there are many biological and non-biological products which have very similar therapeutic goals, and CSL should have the freedom to produce the most effective product. CSL does not have this freedom at present. 
Whilst some biological products, such as penicillins and vaccines, are most beneficial and cost effective medical tools, the production of biologicals represents the less profitable segment of pharmaceutical manufacturing. The Government accepts the view that CSL should be empowered to enter into the commercial production of certain prescribed non-biological products. This will also allow CSL to keep abreast of developments in molecular biology. Clause 10 of the Bill also authorises CSL to produce, buy, import, supply, sell or export any prescribed pharmaceutical product. Clause 3 dennes 'pharmaceutical product' as one for therapeutic use, and 'therapeutic use 'is given the same meaning as it has in the Therapeutic Goods Act 1966. 1 should emphasise that CSL will not be free to produce any therapeutic products. The Bill provides that CSL can engage in commercial activities only in relation to a pharmaceutical product that is prescribed in regulations made under the Act which are of course disallowable by the Parliament, or a product which comes within a class of pharmaceutical products so prescribed. 
The national interest functions of the Commission are those functions it carries out at the direction of the Minister. For example, the Minister may determine that the Commission undertake research aimed at developing a particular vaccine, or that it maintain a reserve production capacity or hold reserve stocks of a particular product for use in a national emergency. The present Act limits reimbursement of the costs incurred by the Commission in conducting national interest activities to the extent of the Commission's overall financial loss in any particular year. 
In recent years, CSL has made a net trading profit on its commercial activities which has been used partly to offset the cost of national interest activities paid to CSL through the Budget. This arrangement disadvantages CSL in the highly competitive market situation, because the net effect is to require the Commission's commercial activities to have, as a first charge, the cost of national interest activities. The new arrangements, as provided in clause 24 of the Bill, will mean additional expenditure in the short term, but the longer-term benefits are considerable. As the costs of national interest activites will be met by the Commonwealth, CSL will not be required to allocate costs arising from its national interest activities against its commercial activities. Consequently, it is envisaged that there would result: 
Greater profitability by CSL in its commercial activities, and therefore greater return on capital to the Government; lower pressure for price increases for pharmaceuticals; increased prospects for export growth and thus greater profitability; and lower costs overall through higher volume throughput from export growth. 
At this stage it is not possible to estimate the benefit in monetary terms of these advantages. This would not begin to accrue until at least the year after the introduction of the new arrangements. 
Under clause 10, the Commission's functions include the operation as a reference centre where so determined by the Minister. I intend that the present arrangement whereby CSL operates as a World Health Organisation reference centre for blood grouping, influenza and brucellosis should continue. However whereas at present CSL meets the operating costs of this activity from its commercial operations, this Bill will provide for the Commonwealth to meet this cost, or the cost of such other reference centres as are determined. In allowing for an increase in the membership of the Commission, the Government is acting on the Reid-Nossal report's recommendations. At present the number of com.missioners is fixed at four, excluding the director. The inquiry considered that the Commission should have available to it a wider range of management, technical and research advice, and therefore recommended that the provision relating to the constitution of the Commission be amended to enable the appointment of up to eight commissioners, in addition to the director. 
The Bill also includes a number of provisions designed to assist in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of CSL. These include provisions relating to the financial aspects of the Commission's operations, to procedures for audit and keeping of accounts, to the remuneration of the director and other commissioners and provisions enabling the appointment of an acting director where necessary, and relating to appointments of staff of the Commission. I reiterate that the Government, in putting forward the measures contained in this Bill, is seeking to implement the recommendations of the independent inquiry into the CSL Commission's operations and capital works program. In doing so the Government is acting in the belief that there is a continuing need for the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, and for this important national asset to be as efficient, progressive and innovative as possible.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I take it that my honourable friend is adverting to the matter which the honourable member for Melbourne raised in the House this afternoon. There is no provision that I am aware of in the Defence Act which would preclude any former member of the Defence Force entering into private employment anywhere in Australia. I am not aware of any such provision, and I am not aware of any convention or practice to that end. I am aware of the fact that the Public Service Board has recently provided guidelines which it is suggested should be followed by former public servants of the country. As things now stand I invite the House to accept the view that those guidelines would be persuasive only in character and would not have the force of law. This Parliament has not legislated to prevent former members of the Public Service or former members of the Defence Force from entering into private employment. That would be a matter for conscious government decision and for the authority of this House, and that is clearly a matter of policy. I think that the great majority of members in the Parliament would be aware that this matter has been considered by the Bowen committee of inquiry; with what results, we will have to wait and see. I would say that how a former member of the Defence Force behaves upon entering into private employment would be essentially a matter for his own sense of fitness and integrity. 
I hold the view, and I hold it very strongly, that where there is no instinct for honour one cannot legislate for it. I am not aware of any abuse by any former member of the Service who has gone into private employment. Members of this Parliament, members of this House, have gone into private employment. I would regard it as a startling proposal to seek to place a complete embargo on all former members of the Public Service or the Parliament or of government or of the Defence Force entering into private employment. I remind the House that several members of this House have returned to pastoral duties. I would think any person who returned to pastoral duties out in the parish after a few years in this place would have a distinct advantage over his brethren. 
The short answer is no. I am not aware of any obligation upon that gentleman to seek the approval of the present Secretary of the Department of Defence. I remind my honourable friend of what I said a few moments ago: Those guidelines as they exist at the moment are persuasive in character only. In my view they do not have the force of law. If the honourable gentleman does not wish to accept that opinion I hope he will pay promptly for another one. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The Depanment of Defence controls 56. 1 705 hectares of Commonwealth land on Rottnest Island. The Commonwealth also owns the Mt Herschell water catchment area of 4.4465 hectares and the 0.0405 hectares controlled by the Depanment of Science. 
The Department of Defence uses the 49.4952 hectares comprising the Kingstown Barracks/Bickley Battery areas. There is a long term use planned for the 6.6753 hectares of land controlled by the Navy but in the interim the area is currently leased to the Fisheries Department of the State of Western Australia on a peppercorn rental. 
The three Services train on the Defence controlled areas as well as on the adjacent beaches and other sectors of the Island by arrangement with the Rottnest Island Board. The predominate user is the Army who use the Bickley Battery area solely for field training as there are no accommodation buildings. Kingstown Barracks with accommodation for 100 personnel is the only living-in accommodation close to the training areas, sheltered waters and a safe anchorage. These facilities are necessary for the specialist training of the Special Air Service Regiment, the Perth Water Transport Unit, the West Australian University Regiment, 22 Construction Squadron and other Army or Army Reserve units where it is desirable or essential to conduct training activities away from unit lines. The regular and reserve elements of the Navy use the Barracks and surrounds for various types of training. The Air Force use the barracks and the adjacent sea area periodically for ditching procedures, , rapelling out of the sea, air-sea rescue training and class-room activities. The married quarters, except for the one occupied by the Army caretaker at Kingstown Barracks, are used as holiday homes on a rental basis by members of the three Services and their families and civilian staff of the Defence Department. 
Information prior to 1974 is not available. However details since then are: (a)- 
The capital improvements on the Commonwealth land namely Kingstown Barracks and the associated 9,092,000 Litres water storage tank at Mt Herschell are valued at $660,000. This 1979 Commonwealth Taxation Valuation is based on the knowledge that the State Government would be the' sole purchaser with the land valued at $150,000 and that it is located in an off-shore Class A reserve. 
The expenditure on maintenance during the last 10 years is $275,976 and $56,858 on new works/extensions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not received the final report of the Interdepartmental Committee inquiring into accommodation for married Service personnel (see however the interim report in  Hansard  of 4 May 1978). 
See (a) above. 
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee has to examine many complex issues in a matter of deep concern to married Service personnel. The Government recognises that the greatest efforts are necessary to ensure that all pertinent information is properly evaluated before a final position is determined. The final report of the Committee is not expected before early 1980. 
-The Chief of Naval Materiel, Rear-Admiral Rourke, will leave Australia tomorrow, I think, for the United Kingdom where trials of the boat will be conducted. Until those trials are completed I would not be in a position to answer my honourable friend's question, other than to say that there are indications that the performance of the boat will not be markedly affected. As to the manner and form in which the weight will be reduced, I regret that I am not in a position to answer that question technically. I will regard that part of my honourable friend's question as being on notice and I will provide him with an answer as soon as possible. 
I am sorry that the honourable gentleman draws such an ungenerous conclusion. 
Yes. I seek to explain to the honourable gentleman the contractual position. There was a contract between the Australian Government and the constructor of the lead patrol boat, namely Brooke Marine Ltd. There was, in turn, a contract between North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd and Brooke Marine Ltd. The nature of that contract was that the boats to be constructed by North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd would follow in every particularity the lead boat, that is, the one being constructed by Brooke Marine. Yes, it is true that the steel was ordered and the hulls were cut and laid before the prototype had been proven. Beyond that, I do not know what I could say to my honourable friend. I have never disguised from this House the fact that a mistake was made. 
It is all very fine for the honourable gentleman - 
Let me say this to the honourable gentleman: The Fill is the finest strategic strike bomber in the world today. If the Labor 
Party had had its way, this country would never have had it. 
The honourable gentleman takes such a passionate interest in defence that he is a scratching from Kangaroo III tomorrow, and I would say that that is one of the cheer-up features of the exercise. 
I am sorry that I do not feel at liberty to congratulate the honourable gentleman on the quality of his recitation of the language in the question. I hasten to assure him that the Bofors gun is not obsolete. If one were discharged in his direction, I think it would stir him from his characteristic stupor. 
It is a most agreeable business to find the ennui of this place disturbed by a newfound propensity for inquiry. Let me say to my honourable friend that I would protect him against any person who sought to assail him, be it on the left or on the right 
I did inform the House that the contract between Brooke Marine Ltd and the Australian Government indicated that there was indemnity as far as the lead ship was concerned. I also informed the House, subsequent to that statement, that there appeared to be some doubt as to the position of the future boats. I went on to say that I had referred the matter to the AttorneyGeneral for his legal opinion. When that opinion is received, further to an undertaking I gave to the House I will inform the House of what the Attorney-General concludes. 
I saw an article, written by a journalist of sorts, saying that the exercise was a hollow shell. I have no doubt at all that that person was properly and adequately briefed by professional officers. On reading that report, I think one of two things could have happened. Either the person did not understand what he was told, or he could not understand what he was told. I point out to the House that one of the stated Army objectives of Kangaroo III was to exercise a lightly equipped task force. That was done and is being done. Another stated objective was to resupply that task force by day and by night. That has been done and is being done. Yet the person who wrote the report made what appeared to be some criticisms regarding logistic support. He even was moved to complain about the use of civilian trains in the activities. My recollection is that during World War II the railway system throughout the whole of Europe and the United Kingdom was absolutely crucial in the movement of men and materials. It is a matter of some astonishment to me that a person who holds himself out as a defence expert should have offered such a churlish criticism. The person concerned apparently wants Service machinery to be used on each and every occasion and for all purposes in order to develop a greater sense of realism. As far as that gentleman is concerned, I would be reluctant to authorise his travel by Service aircraft in future. I think he should walk from Sydney to Rockhampton and should consult notional refugees on the way. 
From the very beginning of this controversy I hoped that it would have been understood that the Department of Defence held the records of the tests at Maralinga and was in a very pure sense the archivist only of the records, undertaking to meet such requests for safeguarding of the material as would be appropriate. I see no cause at all to disturb in any way the information that I gave the House in October last year. Those records showed that there was half a kilogram of plutonium in discrete form. That half a kilogram of plutonium was removed. It was to be found in some six barrels of material. My understanding from the Minister for Science and the Environment is that the drums were encased in concrete but that only half a kilogram of plutonium was taken out of the country. 
As to reconciling the different weights, I say this to my friend, the honourable member for Reid: You were asked for the dressed weight of the bullock. You gave the weight and then added on the weight of the truck that took him to the abattoir. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Defence Act 1903 to give the power to make standing appointments of officers to act as Chief of Defence Force Staff or a Service Chief of Staff during any absence of the holder of the relevant office. Legal advice is that such an amendment is necessary for this purpose. Standing appointments are necessary to ensure that officers are available to act in any unexpected absence of the Chief of Defence Force Staff or a Chief of Staff. 
The Bill will also expedite the payment to members of the Defence Force of approved increases in salaries and allowances and other financial benefits. At present, salaries and allowances of members of the Defence Force are required to be prescribed in regulations made under the Defence Act 1903, the Naval Defence Act 1 9 1 0 and the Air Force Act 1 923. 
The Defence Force is the only area of Commonwealth employment where all financial benefits are required to be prescribed in regulations. There are over 480 regulations. This requirement for the making of regulations has been and, indeed, continues to be a source of considerable delay in the payment of these benefits. This delay gives rise to problems. 
No one should have to wait an inordinate length of time to have new or revised benefits paid. This is especially aggravating to the Defence Force, where frequent movement of members and their families is a feature of service life and there is a range of benefits provided in recompense. Adjustments to these benefits should be able to be paid quickly. Another problem is that substantial delays result in administrative inefficiency because of the need to maintain and keep up-to-date records of payments that cannot be made until the regulations are amended. Frequently this takes many months. A consequence of these problems is that the periods of retrospectivity which are inevitably involved attract criticism by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
Attempts have, of course, been made to reduce these delays. Special arrangements have been made with the Attorney-General's Department for statutory rules applying wage indexation increases to be drafted without delay. However, changes to the wide range of other financial benefits have to compete with the drafting needs of other departments. Another area of reform has been to replace separate regulations for each Service with regulations having tri-service application. However, such consolidations are necessarily a slow process because of the need to continue with day-to-day amendments and do not solve the problem of the extensive detail that has to be prescribed. 
The Bill proposes to resolve these problems by empowering the Minister for Defence to make formal determinations of these financial benefits for members of the Defence Force. The Bill provides for the making of determinations to be notified in the  Gazette  and for the determinations to be laid before both Houses of the Parliament where they will be subject to disallowance, as is the present case with regulations. 
I wish to make one matter clear. Nothing in the Bill is designed to alter in any way the policies governing the fixation of Defence Force pay and other financial benefits or the machinery by which fixation takes place. The making of a determination will usually require the repeal of the corresponding regulation. This presents procedural difficulties that would, until all the regulations were replaced, continue the very delays that the proposed scheme is intended to eliminate. Having regard to this problem and to the size of the task of replacing so many regulations, the Bill provides for an interim period during which the transition from regulations to determinations is to take place. The proposal is that the Minister for Defence, during the interim period only, will be authorised to amend or repeal such regulations by interim determinations. These determinations will also be subject to the procedure for notification, tabling and disallowance. 
The Bill also makes formal drafting amendments to the Defence Act. The Naval Defence 
Amendment Bill 1979 and the Air Force Amendment Bill 1979, which I will also introduce, will make amendments to the Naval Defence Act 1910 and the Air Force Act 1923, respectively, which apart from some formal drafting amendments, are purely consequential. 
It is my belief that the revised procedures provided for in this Bill will not only speed up the payment to members of the Defence Force of changes in rates of, and other improvements to, financial benefits, but will also enhance the revision and consolidation of the existing law on this matter, a task which has hitherto been hampered by the regulation-making process. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As mentioned in the second reading speech on the Defence Amendment Bill 1979, the purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Naval Defence Act 1910, which are consequential on those proposed to be made to the Defence Act 1903 by the Defence Amendment Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As mentioned in the second reading speech on the Defence Amendment Bill 1979, the purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Air Force Act 1923, which are consequential on those proposed to be made to the Defence Act 1903 by the Defence Amendment Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.57 to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Soviet, US, UK, and French ship deployments into the Indian Ocean for the period July 1977-September 1979 (inclusive) are shown in the following tables: 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Army installations are a major employer in the small centres of Gladstone SA, Springhill WA and Macrossan Qld. In the other locations large population centres are located nearby. 
Generally no. 
Employment Levels at Defence Installations  (Question No. 4807) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A reduction in staffing, mainly of military personnel, will be possible after December 1979 from the combining of the administration of 33 Supply Battalion South Kensington and 32 Supply Battalion Broadmeadows following their amalgamation. Further savings which will have a greater impact on civilian personnel will occur as the warehousing functions are concentrated progressively in the Broadmeadows site as new facilities are constructed. Firm planning dates for this have not yet been agreed. Staffing levels will be under continual review during the period. 
Defence Installations in Victoria  (Question No. 4808) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subject to a review of the workload in the new location it is envisaged that most of the positions allotted currently to 33 1 Supply Company Seymour will still be available when new facilities are constructed at Puckapunyal. 
Army Establishment at Singleton  (Question No. 4809) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no study to relocate the total Army establishment from Singleton. However, there is a  Major Army  Training Area Study in progress in New South Wales which includes the possible relocation of the Infantry Centre from Singleton. 
The study has not progressed to the stage of proposing a new area. Pressures for the relocation of the centre are not urgent and an early announcement of any decision should not be anticipated. In the event of any move by the Infantry Centre, current planning is that logistic units at present based at Singleton will remain to support other activities in the Singleton area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not relevant. 
) Both the RAN and the RAAF contribute on a substantial and continuing basis to the program of civil coastal surveillance co-ordinated by the Minister for Transport to meet the requirements of civil agencies, including the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. I have no reason to believe that the effectiveness of that Defence Force contribution would be enhanced by a new unit in the RAN. The organisation of civil coastal surveillance will, however, be subject to a review after reasonable experience with the present surveillance program. 
I am sorry that my honourable friend takes such a pessimistic view of life. May I give him the firm assurance that I certainly would not, under any circumstances, aim a Bofors gun in his direction. It may come as a complete surprise to him, but he does occupy a lingering place in my affections. If I were to be guided by weekend newspapers I would be in the thorough-going state of confusion which some of the critics allege I am in. I point out to the honourable gentleman that the Bofors gun is not meant to be an offensive weapon but for the role that it is presently meeting it is absolutely ideally suited. If the honourable gentleman and any of his colleagues remain in any doubt as to the efficacy of the Bofors gun I will, with the greatest of pleasure, arrange a demonstration. I am quite sure that the honourable gentleman will write as an angry taxpayer to the author of that article in the Sunday newspaper. 
I understand that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is agreeable to treating in cognate fashion this Bill, the Naval Defence Amendment Bill and the Air Force Amendment Bill. I understand that he wishes the Defence Force (Retirement and Death Benefits Amendments) Bill (No. 2) to be debated separately. I am quite agreeable to that being done. I suggest that if the procedure meets with the approval of the House, separate questions will, of course, be put with respect to each of the Bills. 
I will take just a moment to thank my friends the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  for what they have had to say and also to say to the honourable member for Corio that I resist the Opposition's amendment. I am sure the honourable member understands the reasons. Acceptance of the amendment would require a very radical change to be made to the existing structure. The committee which is presided over by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Coldham would need to be set up on a statutory basis. It would require the reception of all of the characteristics of advocacy. In short, it would mean taking the Defence Force into the whole ambit of industrial legislation. I am not prepared this evening to offer any extensive views on that proposal other than to say that I would find it a thoroughly unacceptable one. Possibly at some time in the future my honourable friend and I may have an opportunity to consider all of the ramifications of such a concept. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- May I simply say that I thank my honourable friend for facilitating the passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-In some journals of record I have noticed prices for competing aircraft in the tactical fighter force program. I would excuse myself from saying whether those prices are accurate or inaccurate because to do so could afford commercial advantages to one or other of the companies. I could not give my honourable friend the assurance he seeks. It would be impossible to determine upon a price rated at, say, X and to say that the re-equipment program for the whole of the TFF project would continue at price X, having regard to the realities of commercial life and of inflation throughout the world. 
My friend may sleep well tonight. The situation is not as grim as he points out. The maintenance of the Defence Force does not rest substantially upon electronic means alone. They play a role, but to say that they play a dominant role is to take a grossly mistaken view of the situation. 
by leave- I wish to inform honourable members of a review of the Defence Science and Technology Organisation which I have initiated. The Defence Science and Technology Organisation, which is part of the Department of Defence, employs some 4,900 staff and has a budget of about $90m. It is the second largest government science organisation in Australia. This review is one of a series that this Government has initiated. Honourable members will be aware that four other large science organisations have recently undergone reviews. These are the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Bureau of Meteorology, the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
The Defence Science and Technology Organisation enjoys a fine international reputation. The review will help the Government obtain the greatest value from this talent and help to ensure that Australia makes the best use of modern technology in its Defence Force. The review process will be in two parts. An external review will concentrate on defence science and technology work as science and an internal review will cover special defence aspects of the Organisation including its objectives and interactions with the rest of defence. The external review will cover the quality and research content of the work of the Defence Science and Technology Organisation, its effectiveness in meeting program objectives and its relationships with industry and other science in Australia. The internal review will examine the objectives of the Defence Science and Technology Organisation, its interaction with the Services and other elements of the Department, its management procedures and the value of its association with defence science overseas. 
The external review will be conducted by three distinguished scientists external to the Defence Department. Its  Chairman  will be  Dr A.  L. G. Rees, C.B.E., F.A.A., formerly chief of the CSIRO Division of Chemical Physics. The other members will be Professor A. R. Billings, F.T.S., head of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, the University of Western Australia, and  Dr K.  T. H. Farrer, O.B.E., F.T.S., Chief Scientist, Kraft Foods Ltd.  Dr Farrer  is Vice-President of the Australian Academy of 
Technological Sciences and is a former president of the Australian Industrial Research Group. 
The internal review will have as its  Chairman  Professor P. T. Fink, C.B.E., F.T.S. He is currently on a contract appointment as Chief Defence Scientist on loan from the University of New South Wales, where he was Dean of Engineering. He will be detached for full time duties as  Chairman.  The other members will be Air Vice Marshal J. C. Jordan, A.O. (retired), formerly Assistant Chief of Defence Force Staff, and  Mr R.  B. Finnegan, an assistant secretary in the Department of Defence. The reviews are to begin in the near future and then will require about six months to complete. The Government will consider the reports of both reviews together. While some of the review deliberations will be classified under security regulations, each review is to provide an unclassified version of its report for public release. I seek leave to incorporate the terms of reference of the reviews in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I present the following paper: 
Defence Science and Technology Organisation ReviewMinisterial Statement, 13 November 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Details of dwellings leased or obtained from State and Territory public housing authorities as at 30 June each year from 1974 to 1979 are shown in Table A with the exception of dwellings in the Australian Capital Territory. Details of dwellings leased from the Department of the Capital Territory during the period in question are not complete, however that department has provided the following data: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Basic conveniences, such as toilets are provided at all new storage facilities in which service and /or civilian personnel are employed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Modifications to the lead patrol craft  Fremantle  are expected to be completed, and acceptance trials conducted, before the end of November 1979. 
Modifications to the follow on craft being built in Cairns will be incorporated during construction. The first of these patrol craft is expected to be delivered in November 1 980. 
The purpose of the modifications is to ensure the patrol craft meet requirements and that there will be no reduction in their capability. However, Australia's capacity to police the 200 nautical mile resources zone does not rest solely on the capability of the  Fremantle  class patrol boats. They will be providing a useful and additional capability. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has no plans to provide a re-fuelling depot for nuclear powered warships at Jervis Bay or any other Australian port, nor am I aware of any plans regarding similar facilities for nuclear powered merchant ships. 
For the information of honourable members I table the Defence Report for 1 979. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I appreciate the sustained interest the honourable gentleman has shown in the Woomera village and in the people of Woomera. He will be aware of the fact that there has been a gradual run-down in the joint United Kingdom-Australia long range weapons project. Subject to correction, I believe that the formal aspects of that project will terminate in approximately June next year. The village then will be put on a care and maintenance basis, as the honourable gentleman said. I inform him that the Services are conducting trials to find out whether there is any scope or opportunity to use the area as an exercise ground. The Army recently completed an exercise in the area, which is now the subject of an environmental study. I will continue to inform the honourable gentleman of any further developments. 
-by leave-In 1978  Mr R.  N. Bonnett, the former honourable member for Herbert, reported to the Government on the terms and conditions under which the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act operates and the way its terms and conditions apply to the beneficiaries under the Act. The Act applied to ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen who left the Services prior to October 1972. October 1972 was quite a watershed in relation to superannuation pension benefits- call them what you may- for exservicemen and ex-servicewomen consequential upon the report of what is known as the Jess Committee. I think it deserves to be recalled that the Jess Committee was an all-party committee with representatives from all parties in the Parliament. My recollection is that  Mr C.  B. Byrne, then a distinguished senator from Queensland, represented the Democratic Labor Party. I briefly make the point that it was an all-parties committee report which was compiled following very extensive inquiries throughout Australia and throughout the whole of the Defence Force. A consequence of that report was that the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act came into being. There were two retirement benefits Acts in existence in relation to exservicemen and ex-servicewomen.  Mr Bonnett  's report put together proposals seeking to find a comparable basis upon which beneficiaries under both Acts could be paid. The Government has considered that report very carefully. The Government has put it to study at the hands of actuaries and a number of people with very wide experience in this field. 
Two fundamental points should be recalled when considering the benefits paid under the two schemes. The first is that benefits are determined by the relationship between contributions and the final salary. The levels of benefits paid under the DFRB Act and the DFRDB Act are different simply because the basis of contribution is different. Under the DFRDB Act benefits are paid following a flat rate contribution of 5.5 per cent of salary; that is, the salary paid throughout the term of service of the serviceman or servicewoman concerned. Under the DFRB Scheme benefits are paid on quite a different basis altogether. I hope the House will remember that that is the case. Pre- 1959 contributors paid on a basis which one could describe in shorthand as being a unitary purchase method. The cost of the units depended upon the age of the contributor when the units were first taken. For those contributing in the years post- 1959 there was a difference in the basis of contribution. Contributions were based on a fixed percentage of salary depending upon age of entry to the Scheme. Again, the benefits which are paid today vary, of course, according to salary. Salaries change and pension levels are determined by final salary. It is inevitable that differences occur and they have occurred. The DFRDB Scheme is a new scheme. As is the case with all new retirement benefit schemes comparisons are made between contemporary schemes and those which were launched and in operation years ago. The basic question which the Government has had to consider is whether it can pass on to former members of the Services the benefits which accrue from a scheme which is fundamentally different. 
As I have said, the Government has considered  Mr Bonnett  's report and it cannot accept the recommendations in the report. To do this would create a precedent which, understandably would be invoked by beneficiaries under all other retirement schemes. The Government has been conscious of the effects of inflation upon benefits paid to former members of the Services. That is why the Government has provided machinery to increase benefits to reflect the full movement of the consumer price index. The Government will continue to make such provision. To give some indication as to the sum of money involved, the Government's responsibilities under the DFRB Act have more than doubled since 1972. 
There remains the further question of the taxation of invalidity benefits. Unlike repatriation pensions which are exempt from taxation, invalidity pensions are not paid as compensation for disablement but to supplement income received from other sources. The Government has considered this issue carefully. Again, it does not consider that there are grounds for departing from the present practice. It remains for me to inform the House that copies of  Mr Bonnett  's report are available in the Parliamentary Library and, of course, from the Table Office. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's reply to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, pages 2657-8). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Expenditure through the Department of Defence (including expenditure by Department of Housing and Construction) on research and development of military technology is estimated to be $1 17.9m in 1977-78 and $1 14.1m in 1978-79. These amounts include actual expenditure by the Defence Science and Technology Organisation and estimated expenditure by the Services on research and development activities conducted within their normal operations. 
Revenue of $8.1m and $4.8m respectively was received, resulting in a net outlay of $ 109.8m in 1977-78 and $109.3m in 1978-79. 
About 600 separate tasks are covered by the Defence research and development programs for the years 1977-78 and 1978-79 of which the main components and the approximate extent of resources used as a percentage of outlay are as follows: 
Maintenance and improvement of the Defence Force e.g. weapon systems development, underwater warfare, aircraft fatigue studies- 35 per cent. 
Development and acquisition of new equipment for the Services- 32 per cent. 
Maintenance and development of science and technology capabilities- 25 per cent. 
d ) Analytical studies- 3 per cent. 
Australian component of co-operative international agreements- 3 per cent. 
Support to civilian industry and science activities- 2 percent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No implicit price deflator is maintained for Defence equipment expenditure; rather, assessments of real growth in Defence function capital equipment expenditure are made each year relative to the achievement in the previous year. Using the data maintained for these purposes an index for Defence function capital equipment expenditure has been constructed which enables the assessment of expenditure in previous years in real terms relative to the expenditure in 1978- 79. The assessment excludes from Defence function capital equipment expenditure the acquisition costs of the Boeing 707 aircraft. 
The index, using 1978-79 as the base, is: 
1973-74-183.3; 1974-75-169.6; 1975-76-140.1; 1976-77-114.9; 1977-78-109.2; 1978-79-100.0. 
There are no forecasts made of future prices and exchange movements which would allow the derivation of an index for expenditure on capital equipment for 1 979-80. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No implicit price deflator is maintained for Defence expenditure; rather, assessments of real growth in Defence outlays are made each year relative to the achievement in the previous year. Using the data maintained for these purposes, an index for Defence function outlay has been constructed which enables the assessment of outlay in previous years in real terms relative to the outlay in 1978-79. The assessment excludes from Defence function outlay the acquisition costs of the Boeing 707 aircraft. 
The index using 1978-79 as the base, is: 
1973-74-189.9; 1974-75-150.2; 1975-76-131.8; 1976-77-117.8; 1977-78-108.1; 1978-79-100.0. 
There are no forecasts made of future prices and exchange movements which would allow the derivation of an index for 1979-80. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My Department has received advice from the Australian Federal Police that investigation of the allegations by the South Australian Police Task Force, on which the Commonwealth Police were represented, adduced no evidence to support the allegations. The honourable member will already have noted from the reply given by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on 1 1 October 1 979 to a similar question  (Hansard,  page 2001) that inquiries by officers of his Department also produced no evidence to support the allegations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The instruction is still operative. As to the changes outlined in my statement concerning Army supply warehousing these fall into two broad categories; a concentration of storeholding facilities in fewer locations and a modernisation of the remaining facilities. 
In regard to the former preliminary advice was given to the Peak Councils as early as 1 March 1979. On 1 June 1979 the Peak Councils were supplied with lists of classifications of employees involved and on 7 August were supplied with a copy of my Press statement plus a document assessing the impact on civilian employment of the Army Supply Study. 
Discussions have also been held with an individual union and these will continue. 
In regard to the modernisation of facilities, as these proposals are developed consultation with the unions will take place in accordance with the guidelines on technological change. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board guidelines for consultation on Technological Change have been issued as a Departmental Instruction dated 14 September 1979. The guidelines contain machinery for consultation and these have been supplemented by administrative arrangements to ensure that effective consultation takes place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, at certain barracks for Service personnel at the locations listed below. 
Temperatures shown are the monthly mean minimum temperatures for the coolest month as advised by the Bureau of Meteorology and are as recorded at the Meteorology Station closest to the Defence base concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The price of each of these aircraft was provided on a commercial-in-confidence basis and therefore the Government is not in a position to divulge this information. 
I think it was in March this year that I said that the total project cost for the patrol frigates was some $642 m, expressed in August 1978 prices. That project cost has been updated, to use the fashionable word, and is now some $7 15m, an increase of $73m. My friend will understand that that is the total project cost. Within the project cost, allowances are made for a host of things ranging from equipment, torpedoes, helicopters and so forth. The actual unit cost of the ships has increased from $ 132m each to some $141m each. Looked at in real terms, there has continued to be a downward slide in the total cost. I ask the House to distinguish between absolute terms and real terms. The fall in real terms is of the order of $3 m. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House of the further steps the Government has taken in regard to the selection of an aircraft to meet the future tactical fighter force needs of the Defence Force. It has been my practice to keep the House informed on the progressive stages of the development of this project. It is a project of great concern to the Parliament not only because of its high cost but, more importantly, because of the contribution the new tactical fighter will make to the long term security interests of this country. We can look to the new fighter being in operational service from about the mid-1980s to beyond the year 2000. 
As I have said before, the Government will not be rushed in coming to its final decision on the choice of aircraft we should ultimately acquire. The steps we have taken to date have been timely and responsible. The Government has already announced its decision to proceed with a Mirage refurbishment program that will enable a number of our Mirage aircraft to continue in service throughout the 1 980s. The strength of the Mirage force will begin to decline by about the mid-1980s through expected peace time attrition, and it is in this time frame that we plan to bring into operational service the first of the new fighter squadrons. This would enable the present three squadron structure and an operational conversion unit to be maintained. Operational capabilities must be the prime determinant in deciding which aircraft Australia should ultimately acquire. It must have capabilities matched to our own strategic and geographic environment and appropriate to our future needs at a cost that we can afford. At the same time, it is to Australian industry that we must look for much of the aircraft's basic support if we are to move towards greater self-reliance in this area in the future. Investment is needed to introduce into our industries the technologies of these advanced aircraft. These industries must have the work that will sustain the skills that are introduced not only during the time these aircraft are entering service but well beyond. 
Operational, technical and industrial missions returned from overseas in the middle of this year. These missions examined proposals developed in respect of the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18, the Northrop F-18L, the Dassault Breguet Mirage 2000 and the General Dynamics F-16. The missions explored in detail the operational suitability of these aircraft and discussed with manufacturers their capacity and willingness to satisfy our industrial objectives at acceptable cost. 
The report of these missions was subject to detailed and critical examination by the Royal Australian Air Force and my Department, assisted by the Department of Finance, the Department of Productivity, the Department of Administrative Services and the Attorney-General 's Department. I think it is one of the finest reports that has ever been prepared by any mission which has gone outside this country. 
In the process of this examination supporting information from the governments and manufacturers in the countries concerned was sought in order to assess further the confidence that could be held in each of the programs. Indeed, these examinations have been so wide-ranging that I believe this to be one of the best and most carefully researched projects to have come before a government in this country. 
Each of the four aircraft considered is at a different stage of development. The F-16 is now entering operational service with the United States Air Force. The F/A-18 and the Mirage 2000 are not expected to enter operational service for at least another two to three years. The F-18L, which is the land based version of the F/A- 1 8, has not yet been launched. 
The Government recognises that all aircraft could to varying degrees provide capabilities not only in the roles of air defence and air combat but also in the air-to-surface roles including maritime interdiction and strike, and in tactical reconnaissance and close support of ground forces. There would be obvious advantages in choosing a single aircraft type that could fulfill both the air-to-air and air-to-surface roles. This would not only give added operational flexibility, but also there would be savings in respect of logistic support and industrial investment costs, as well as a reduced burden on our training programs. 
The Government has now decided that further detailed evaluation should be confined to the General Dynamics F-16 and the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18. The F-16 is a single engined, highly manoeuvrable fighter aircraft with capabilities in both the air-to-air and air-to-surface roles. At present it lacks a medium range allweather air-to-air missile. The United States Government is developing an advanced missile of this type for use on the F- 1 6 and other aircraft. To accept this new missile the F-16 aircraft and radar would need to be modified. It is expected that these modifications would be available to meet the initial time scale for Australian deliveries. Other aspects of the F-16's development will require close examination in the months ahead. We shall be looking closely at the engine. Particular attention will need to be given to developing in detail a satisfactory Australian industry program. Currently the United States Air Force has plans for production of the F-16 through the later half of the 1980s and possibly beyond, depending on the rate of production at that time. 
The F/A-18 is the largest and most capable of ali the contending aircraft. We would be opting for the United States Navy configuration with only the most minor changes. It is the one aircraft that offers the safety and survivability advantages of two engines. This can be an important consideration when long distance flights are being contemplated. It has considerable growth potential for the addition of new systems and weapons capabilities. It is more expensive than the F-16. Because of its early stage of development, there are greater risks associated in assessing the final cost, operational capabilities and support requirements of the F/A-18. On present plans, the aircraft will be in production throughout the 1980s and well into the 1990s. Opportunities exist for a well balanced Australian industry program. We have assurances from McDonnell Douglas that legal proceedings by Northrop, its partner in the F/A-18 program, will not adversely impact on these opportunities. McDonnell Douglas has already identified satisfactory alternative tasks that could if necessary be substituted for work from Northrop 's portion of the aircraft. 
I turn now to the two aircraft which have been excluded from further detailed evaluation. The Northrop F-18L has been excluded because there is no firm program and there can be no assurance that the aircraft would be available to meet the time scale sought for our new tactical fighter. We do not believe that this aircraft, which is comparatively expensive, has advantages sufficient to continue detailed evaluation on the prospect that others might later decide to acquire this aircraft in sufficient numbers to justify its production. 
As regards the Mirage 2000, the French Government is firmly committed to its development and introduction into operational service. The aircraft should be available to match Australia's delivery schedule in the 1980s. A program of industry involvement was offered that was well matched to our needs. This aircraft has air-to-air performance broadly comparable with that of the F-16. The Mirage 2000 is forecast to have marginally better top speed at high altitudes, but the F-16 has superior acceleration. The Mirage 2000 has the disadvantage that a specialised radar needs to be developed for the air-to-air role, and a different radar for the airtosurface role, to meet the levels of operational capability sought for the RAAF. The substantial payload-range advantage of the F-16 and 
F/A- 1 8 over the Mirage 2000 is of particular importance in the Australian theatre. That the Mirage 2000 has some excellent qualities is recognised. The present decision to set it aside is based on the expectation that the F- 1 6 can offer a wider range of capabilities at a lower cost, that planned improvements to the F-16 in the air-to-air role will be forthcoming and that the expectations of significant technological and other offsets for either the F-16 or the F/A- 18 will prove well founded. Practical considerations also indicate that if the final evaluation and draft contractual phase is to be completed within a reasonable time, having regard to the limited departmental and industrial resources available, further detailed evaluation will need to be confined to two aircraft. 
Should our expectations for the F-16 or the F-18 not be fulfilled in the months ahead, I assure the House that this Government will not be forced into any ill-considered decision on the final choice of aircraft. This project is too important for that to happen. We will continue to oversee developments in the contenders now set aside and we will be prepared to reconsider them if there is a well founded reason for so doing, accepting that this could impose some delay in the entry of the new fighter aircraft into operational service. The RAAF and my Department will now proceed with the detailed evaluation of the F-16 and the F/A- 18 with a view to presenting recommendations to the Government on the suitability of these aircraft for final selection. I do not expect this further phase could responsibly be completed before the later part of 1980. I shall continue to keep the Parliament informed on this important project. I present the following paper: 
Selection of New Tactical Fighter Aircraft for Further Evaluation- Ministerial Statement, 21 November 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The answer to Question No. 894 was updated in May 1978 (Question No. 937,  Hansard,  9 May 1978, page 2590) and again in May of this year (Question No. 3849,  Hansard,  28 May 1979, page 2497). Up to date information on the same subject was also provided in October (Question No. 4776,  Hansard,  25 October 1979, page 2580). The following table provides a consolidated record of Soviet, US, UK and French naval and naval associated ship deployments in the Indian Ocean during the period 1 May 1977 to 30 September 1979 in terms of maximum number of ships present by month and monthly class/day figures. (Minor variations to information previously tabled are due to more recently available data). 
There have been 83 transits of the Suez Canal by a total of 68 Soviet naval and naval associated vessels during the period 1 May 1977 to 30 September 1979. 
Indian Ocean ship day figures for the USSR, USA, UK and France are shown in the following table. The PRC did not deploy naval ships into the Indian Ocean during the period. Data for other countries is unavailable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; not applicable. 
Australia-USSR Society Festival (Question No. 4893) 
The answer to the horn member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes- those who can be contacted. They will need pay their own expenses to attend the ceremony. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No.  Senator Button  was advised that there were no detailed statistics on the incidence of alcoholism and drug addiction detected by Medical Officers in any of the Services. 
Yes. Statistics were provided to a journalist for an article in  Playboy  magazine. Those statistics were not statistics on drug addiction. Members of the Defence Force may be discharged for drug offences falling well short of addiction. 
Essentially, the statistics provided were statistics relating to the number of investigations into alleged drug offences for the period 1975-77 in all three Services, and the number of discharges resulting from these investigations or of discharges where drug abuse was a contributing factor. 
3 ) No, the statistics were not prepared for a possible reply to the Parliamentary question alluded to. They were either extracted from or comprised updates of data made available by the Depanment of Defence during a public hearing of the Williams Royal Commission nearly two years ago, or else were drawn from related data. Those of currency in December 1977, comprise Exhibit 129 of the proceedings of the Royal Commission. The record of evidence given by the Department has for some considerable time been in the Parliamentary Library and it will be seen that the statistics are not confidential and were tendered as a public document. They were reviewed at the time the Senator's question was being examined, but neigher they nor any other data available would have enabled the  Senator to  be answered on a comprehensive basis consistent with the terms of his question. One reason for this will be apparent from (2) above. Another was that discharges have occurred when drug or alcohol abuse was a contributing but not necessarily the determining factor; a third was that in many instances the drug offence most certainly could not be described in terms f addiction: in some instances, discharge has followed imediately upon a first known occurrence of 'hard' drug 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) Judgement as to what constitutes a 'serious alcohol problem' is bound to vary from observer to observer. The Defence Force is not, and does not expect to be, immune from problems that affect the community at large. To my knowledge there is no objective survey which, based on common criteria, would indicate where the Defence Force would stand in relation to the community as a whole, or where its various components would stand in relation to (say) regions, age groups, sexes, religious groups, ethnic groups, occupational groups etc. in the wider community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) and (3 ) The officers named participated in discussions arranged by the Director of Public Information in the Department of Defence following an approach by a journalist,  Mr Lee  Patterson. It is the practice of the Department to arrange, whenever it reasonably can, for individual journalists following up specific and specialised lines of inquiry to be given access to officers who may be able to assist. I hope recent events will not discourage that practice. Regrettably in the instance referred to in the question, the article subsequently written by the journalist implied that he had been given access to official information which had previously been withheld, even from the Parliament. In fact, the information was essentially the same as that presented openly in a public hearing of a Royal Commission in 1977, and was not the information sought in the Parliamentary question alluded to. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) No. At the time of selection of the Leopard tank no contending tanks had sights superior to those incorporated in the Leopard. Subsequent developments have lead to passive night sighting equipment now becoming available; however the acquisition of such equipment is not considered to be justified under present circumstances and the existing equipment allows for adequate training in night operations. 
infra-red sights are no more vulnerable to anti-tank weapons than are any other types of sight. The source of energy radiation on which they rely is, however, detectable by a variety of viewing devices. 
and (4) Both the Defence Science and Technology Organisation and the Director, Australian Armoured Corps, were involved in the development of requirements, trials and assessment of contenders, and the final selection of Leopard (including its infra-red night sight) as the medium tank for the Australian Army. 
